ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e104	The President will ask for peace in the Chamber. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e109	On behalf of the representative Carl I. Hagen and myself, I have the pleasure of promoting a bill of representation on the law amending the law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on popular peace, the law of popular peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e114	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e129	In the spring of 1993, the Stortinget decided to set up a parliamentary control committee for the secret services. The committee was to control both the civil surveillance service, the military intelligence service and the security service. Experience has shown that this was a wise decision. The EOS Committee, through its activities, has helped to improve its understanding of the important work of services and has carried out its mission on behalf of the Stortinge to the general satisfaction of the public. During the 14 years that the law has worked, there have been major changes in both the working conditions of services and the tasks they perform. This has created the need for some adaptations to the law, which we have to deal with here in Odelstinget, and in the instructions for the sample. The Committee has asked questions about the way in which we deal with the legislative changes we are considering in this section. In the opinion of the Committee, a more appropriate treatment for any future legislative changes would be to raise questions about changes to the annual notification of the activities of the Stortinge, as provided for in the instructions of the EOS Committee of 30 May 1995 Section 13 paragraph. 3 (h). The present setting deals with several proposals for changes to the law. One is to legislate the principle that the selection should carry out its duties independently and independently of the Storting within the framework of law and instructions. This implies the confirmation of current practice and the visibility of the independent position of the sample. The proposal is supported by an overall committee. However, the Committee would not rule out the possibility that, in very special situations, the size could need to instruct the sample to carry out a specific study. The Committee has therefore chosen to propose a supplement in order to enable the Grand total to: «by ordinary legislative decision, require the sample to carry out further defined surveys within the control mandate of the sample, and in compliance with the rules and within the frameworks which otherwise underlie the activities of the sample». [[burden decision]] A similar provision is contained in the Law on the National Audit Service § 9, seventh paragraph, first sentence. A unanimous committee further supports the EOS Committee's view that it is unfortunate that one of the services selected to control should also determine whether members of the panel should receive security clearance. It therefore endorses the proposal that the Presidency of the Storting should be a clearing authority but that personal checks should continue to be carried out via the national safety authority. The need for the legalisation of the responsibilities of the services for the observance of human rights and for the control to include this can be discussed. The Committee has concluded that such a provision could be a useful clarification of the responsibilities of the services and proposes that point 1 of the first paragraph of Section 2 be replaced by the following: ‘The purpose of the control is: 1. to clarify and prevent any wrongdoing against any, including ensuring that no more intervention is used than is necessary in the circumstances and that the services respect human rights;’;» The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee is unanimous on all points, and I recommend that the Odelsting join this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e160	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e177	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e186	The Law on Santa Claus has been treated several times during this period. There is no matter whether we have received more telephones and e-mails about this particular case. The background to the matter we are dealing with today is the judgment of the Supreme Court in the so-called Sørheimsaken, where the 40 p.m. rule of the Law on Santa Claus was contrary to the Basic Law § 105 when party agreements are in use. As I said, this has been treated several times. Although I am the case rapporteur, I would like to remind you of the minority proposal during the last reading, where we would obtain the views of the Supreme Court. It might have been a good idea if we had. The Supreme Court also stated in its judgment that they could not see either that the consequences of the rule or the problems that could arise in relation to the Constitution had been adequately assessed or commented on. Maybe a lot of time and frustration could have been avoided if we had taken the time to do this in 2006. Today we have this change to treatment. Five alternatives have been sent out to the hearing. No one is surprised that none of the parties have been satisfied with any of the options. «To be prepared for all, no one can do» may well be said in this case. I would also like to say that for the Progress Party, this matter has not been so simple, although it may look like this. There have been good and broad debates in us too, but we have ended up with a slightly different proposal from what the Government has put forward. For the Progress Party, private ownership and the principle of contractual freedom are very high. These are principles that are fundamental to a democratic society. Owning and managing their own property is a prerequisite for everyone. During the last examination of this case, the attachment was entitled to redemption, and that is an advantage in relation to the landowners. No one asks questions about it today either. The Progress Party has not followed the Government's proposal for the 25th time. We've come to believe in a proposal to have a 30 time, which is what we have today, but still have the 40 pst rule for landowners. Finally, I would like to say that redemption is voluntary. If you redeem a property, you become the landowner yourself. Then you become the landowner of the rights that it implies. I have then submitted the matter, and I take up the minority proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e212	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e215	For several years, landmines legislation has been actively discussed both in public space and here in this room. There are clear political disagreements between the parties at Stortinget about what is the wishful thinking of the final law on the land. The law we are dealing with today comes as a consequence of the fact that the Supreme Court believed that the 40 percent rule was contrary to the Basic Law § 105, when the party demanded that this rule be applied. The government has followed up legal work in order to get the land retention legislation in line with the Constitution. The government has chosen to compensate for the lapse of the 40 percent rule for the fasteners by lowering the multiplier from 30 times to 25 times to better balance the fastener and fastener sides. At the same time, the Government has issued a land annex for state property that improves the situation of the parties that have party contracts on state grounds. Together with the right of withdrawal for the parties and the change in the redemption possibilities from every ten years to every two years, this has helped to improve the conditions for the parties during this ageing period. There is no secret that the three government parties have a slightly different view of Santa Claus policy. It is also no secret that I and my party would like to see that we had come any further. But this is now the reality. We need a majority in this room to change the law. I am pleased with the compromise that is being presented and that we are going to vote on today. I record that the case-rapporteur, Horne, said that there have been major debates in the Advancement Party. Then I find it strange that they choose to exacerbate the situation of the parties with their proposal to maintain the 30-time rule, but they have probably had good reasons for it, without the case-rapporteur being able to make it visible in particular in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e228	I'll be very short. This law has been treated very many times, most recently in the autumn of 2006. There are few issues that have aroused as much and as much commitment as some e-mail exchanges and advertisements in the newspapers etc. may indicate. Finding a balance in this relationship was what led to a reconciliation in the previous period. Then you did the best you could, but that balance obviously wasn't good enough, and we're adjusting it somewhat because of the Supreme Court's decision. Almost any model is someone who will not be satisfied. In my opinion, it may not be possible to find the perfect solution as long as you are allowed to landfill. It'll always be someone who's dissatisfied somehow. I think to the extent that the representative Thomas Breen found out in a good way what this is essentially about. After today's decision, some will be dissatisfied. For most people, however, I believe that the majority's proposal is the closest one can come. I think, unfortunately, that we're not getting any closer until we've abolished the entire Santa Claus Act, but there's another debate that's going to come at another time. 25-fold the fixed fee and proposals for fixed-term contracts, which represent a strengthening of the position of the fasteners, are in the pact with the Right concerned by the previous adjustment of the law on the fastening of land. You're securing the landowner a little bit more than what you did in the original deal. Someone would say that this is cosmetic, but I'm not going to spend any more time creating unnecessary debate. The right is part of the majority of the committee, and I recommend that the motion for a resolution be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e239	We're dealing with a lot of complicated issues in the Justice Committee, and not least in the Stortinget. Problems related to land retention are clearly covered by this category. There are clear political differences between parties in legislative issues relating to land fasts. Immediate fastening legislation is in place, among other things. on the main economic well-being of people, namely owner-occupied housing. As regards the proposal on open-ended contracts, the Swedish Government supports the proposal to lower the multiplier from 30 times to 25 times. I'm referring to the rationale for this in the proposition. As my colleague, the representative of the Workers' Party, Thomas Breen, was involved, there is no secret that the government parties have different views on this matter. With regard to the issue of fixed-term contracts, SV, together with the Workers' Party, would have preferred to choose a solution where the 25-time rule was the only option here. That solution was not adopted, nor has there been a majority in Stortinget for this view in previous proceedings on the land retention rule. We therefore do not propose it. Finally, a few words about the proposal of the Progress Party: In their comments, the representatives of the Progress Party wrote that their proposal implies a better balance between the interests of the parties and those of the parties. I have a hard time seeing this. The Government’s proposal provides for a strengthening of the legal status of fasteners by allowing them to be redeemed up to a fixed fee of 25 times, whereas the proposal for fixed-term contracts means a strengthening of the position of the fasteners. When the party chooses to raise the redemption to a 30-fold fixation fee, i.e. a weakening of the fixation position compared to the bill, only the rights of the fasteners are strengthened. This can hardly be called a balance. Finally, SV will continue to strengthen attachment rights. This is about social justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e254	I have said it from this pulpit before, and I would like to repeat it: this is a very important social policy issue, and it concerns many people in Norway. In the past, we have probably estimated that about one million people in Norway are affected by the law on the land. Many of them are affected in connection with the most important social welfare goods we have, at least of a physical nature, namely housing. It has been the power of the red-green parties in the government, but also before we went into the government, all since 2001, to get cleaned up in what was then the situation. In this way, Odelstinget is currently in the process of completing a rather long process of giving the parties an opportunity, among other things. redeeming, and those who do not want to redeem, the possibility of having more predictability as to what kind of rent you pay. Finally, I find it necessary to stress the need for predictability when a long time of celebration expires, so that you actually have certainty that you will be extended under the same conditions. In 2001, the situation was that unfair conditions were imposed on the parties by bringing market price regulation into line. It was the bourgeois who did it, and that's where the front line goes. Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left contributed to this, and that was when it all started. If you hadn't done that, we would have been too proud, too many of us, and especially the parties. This market price adjustment, with a ceiling of NOK 9 000 per year. objectives, etc., helped to put the whole scheme into play. That is why I believe that the legislative proposal that is on the table today must be seen in the context of what has actually been done with this. I note that there are still clear political lines in this matter. There are comments from the Right Party and the Advance Party from earlier on, where one actually wants to go back to market price regulation, remove the nine-thousand crown stick and make it worse for the parties. So this is a matter that depends on it at any time sitting majority. I want to praise the previous government and government parties to stand firm on the agreement that was then made. It's important, sail if it wasn't a natural majority for it. What was important then was that we just got the round of the market price thinking, that we got one regulation with the market price and then referred to what the right-hand side called ‘stalinism’ when we suggested from the Labour Party that we go back to consumer price regulation. Providing predictability in terms of being able to extend when the party time expires is certainly important, so that you are not told to take the house or cabin and move when the party time goes out. The fact that you now have the right to redeem, the right to buy the land, is, according to our concepts, the most central thing to wind up the land retention system. Then the redemption right has to be attractive, and it has to be functional, and that's why the government over this period has made sure it's not every ten years, but every two years. Here we have an area of policy where there are still partial dividing lines, and where we will still see struggle around the arrangements that are. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that the redemption mechanisms we have comply with the Basic Law and also adhere to what has been stated by the Supreme Court in Sørheim-saka. I believe that the arrangements that now exist are also very favourable to most parties. It is not the case that the Fed has claimed in both advertisements and arguments that the full market price for the plots is now almost payable. Rather the opposite – max is 40 pst, and too many are 60 pst. rejection of the market price a good discount, together with the deduction of expenditure incurred on the land, which can be written on the land. It is important in terms of pricing. Then I also record that the Progress Party on this occasion, as on previous occasions, with its proposal, will make the situation worse for the Santa party by raising the multiplier to 30, on which the representative Breen was involved. It just signals where the front continues to go. With regard to the issue of the fasteners on state grounds, there is also a great fight with the Right, the Advance Party and the others. But there we have now received an instruction that means you get a very reasonable redemption.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e277	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e280	The representative Breen concluded in his statement that with the argument I had in my post, the party should agree with the parties. Although we have a discussion, that is not a good enough argument, and I just record that Breen has also not reached out in his discussions internally in his party. So, as I said in my post, the Advance Party places the private property right and the principal pipe of freedom of contract very high. When Akhtar Chaudhry starts to demand a better balance, I just have to remind you that when this case was dealt with before, the parties got a redemption right, which is a very great good for the parties. By going to the 30's today, we believe we've given a little bit back to the landowners, so there's a better balance between parties and landowners. Yet that was not what I took the floor for. That was basically a small explanation of vote. In the case of Roman numeral II, the Party of Progress will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e290	What is the situation in relation to the proposals of the Progress Party is more important than going from 25 to 30, in my opinion. It is a strong signal from the Advance Party that you still stand on the side where you have always stood when you have dealt with Santa Claus issues, on the landowner’s side. With regard to issues relating to state properties, where there are between 8000 and 9000 fasteners, and these fasteners, in particular through the Information Society's fund, now have a good opportunity to redeem their land, it has been stated, inter alia. by the Progress Party, that it is also contrary to the Constitution, and that, for that reason, the instructions should be withdrawn and the law amended, inter alia. Information Service Fund. That is why I believe that when this matter is dealt with so closely up to an election, the Progress Party should clarify for Odelstinget and for all the positions that you actually have in relation to the rights already established. I would therefore challenge the representative Horne now to explain the Odelstinget: what will happen to changes if the Progress Party comes into government after the elections? Is it true, then, that the instructions in relation to state property will be withdrawn? Will full market price regulation be reintroduced again and go back to the key redemption mechanisms that have now been achieved over the last eight years? Not only do I think that Odelstinget deserves an answer to that, but I also think that all Santas in Norway deserve an answer to that. So that's my challenge -- I'm asking for an answer from the representative Horne. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's place again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e301	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e318	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e327	The EU Directive on Shareholders’ Rights is intended to strengthen shareholders’ rights in the context of general meetings and to facilitate voting at general meetings in other countries, in particular for non-residents. Most minority rights are already well regulated in Norwegian legislation; the objective of simpler cross-border voting requires something more. The proposal proposes to be able to vote with electronic means and to vote in advance. In addition, the notice period for the general meeting of listed companies will be extended from two to three weeks and it will be further regulated in the regulation, together with other details, in order to comply with the requirements of the Directive. The Committee has joined the vast majority of the proposals for the implementation of the Directive, but on a few points the Committee is divided into two. The majority of the Committee supports the fact that shareholders who wish to exercise their right to put matters on the agenda must notify the company at least seven days before the deadline for calling the general meeting expires. The entire Committee agrees that this shall apply to public limited-liability companies. In these companies, it is generally known quite a long time in advance for the general meeting to be held, and then shareholders have plenty of time to file cases. In addition, these companies often have a large number of shareholders, and then they have a practical need to use a few days after the convocation has been adopted by the board until it can be sent out physically. However, in the case of the more than 200000 limited liability companies, those factors are not present. The deadline for owners is now a week shorter, it is not possible to get from. The consequence is that owners are reduced in their ability to put matters on the agenda of the general meeting. The minority, the Right and the Advance Party, believe that this weakens minority rights so much that we oppose this amendment to the Share Act. The proposal on the obligation of justification for the person who wishes to raise a case at the general meeting, or the drafting of a proposal for a decision in the case, also separates the Committee. Neither the shareholders nor the companies themselves have asked for it in the consultation round, and the directive requires, as we see it, not this either. The minority believes that such a rule will raise the threshold for putting proposals on the agenda. It is also an important minority right, and that is why the Right and the Progress Party are opposed to this proposal. In addition, the Committee agrees on how the EU Directive is to be implemented in Norwegian legislation. The next proposal in the proposal concerns the dispatch of documents to shareholders of listed companies. There are almost 190 companies, which have a total of over 800,000 shareholders, so there are quite a lot of paper to be sent out, as the rules are today. An overall committee believes that these rules should be simplified, but there is disagreement about how. At the hearing on this issue in July 2008, the proposal stated that the companies should send physical notice to shareholders about the time and place of the general meeting, while at the same time informing shareholders where the documents could be downloaded electronically and that they could receive them in the post if they so wished. That proposal was widely accepted by all those who expressed their views. It was a good proposal, which would save the companies, and the indirect shareholders, for costs, and the environment would be saved. For example, StatoilHydro estimates that they sent out 70 tons of paper last year in connection with the general meeting. But now the government has turned around. In order to establish the simple scheme proposed in the summer of 2008, the shareholders must be asked first. The right hand party and the Progress Party are in favour of a system whereby shareholders receive a call for a general meeting in the post office, and that notice states both where they can download the documents electronically, if they so wish, and where they can turn to get the documents home in the post office. The minority believe that this is the easiest thing for the stock market as a whole, because then all the companies will initially have a simple and convenient arrangement that all the investors are familiar with. The majority believe that some companies will then amend their statutes so that physical transmission becomes mandatory again. There's a lot of doubt about the minority. Finally, the minority, the Right and the Advance Party also adopt a proposal concerning the management of the annual report and annual accounts. Under the law, these two matters must be dealt with in physical meetings, i.e. members of the board must sit in the same room and review the documents. These matters may be among the most important board of directors in a year's time, but in very many cases the annual accounts and the annual report are not very complicated, and when matters are not complicated, we do not think there is any reason to demand that you hold a physical board meeting. Treatment can be done safely through remote conference techniques, video conferencing, telephone conferences, etc. It takes time and money to travel to such meetings, whether you live in Norway or other countries. I then take up the minority proposals, from the Right and the Advance Party. Otherwise, a unanimous committee is behind most of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e346	The representative André Oktay Dahl has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e349	The case spokesperson went through the main points in a very good way, so I'm just going to comment on multiple suggestions from the Labour Party and SV. I want to start where the case spokesperson ends, that is, with the board meeting. The Progress Party and the Right propose new rules on the board meeting in Section 6-19 of the Share Act, by opening it so that the board can handle annual accounts and annual reports without holding any physical meeting. This proposal is not addressed in Ot.prp. No 46, and has therefore not been on the listener's ear either. The Labour Party's view is that such a change as the Right and the Advance Party propose would be so significant that it should not be decided but after a general hearing and subsequent thorough assessments of the recordings from the companies, owners, creditors, the auditor's page, they added their organisations and others to this debt. Not least, it is essential that they join their organisations to assess and express their views on the issue in the light of the importance this may have for the deputy representatives of the Governing Board. Can it be, for example, in practice think that it may be difficult for a proxy representative to insist that a physical meeting be held, if all the other members of the board oppose this? Can it be, for example, do the other members of the Governing Board think that they meet physically more often in a context other than that of the member of the new Governing Board, and therefore have the possibility of becoming acquainted with each other who does not have the new member, and that this may have a bearing on the effective influence of the deputy representative on the Board? The Right Party and the Progress Party claim that the remote meeting "often may be sufficient" in a meeting where the Management Board manages annual accounts and annual reports. In fact, the question is not whether remote meetings can often be sufficient, but whether remote meetings will always be sufficient when reviewing annual accounts and annual reports. In particular, a question may arise as to whether or not the control function of the Board will be impaired. Most people who have personal experience with remote meetings know that one usually does not get as deep into the questions that are discussed, when one does not meet physically, and that the treatment at a remote meeting is more superficial. On this basis, it is necessary to carefully assess whether such a proposal could weaken the Governing Board's important control function. Is it too much for people who take on the important and great responsibility of sitting on a board that they actually set up physically at a board meeting once a year to perform one of the board's most important and most central functions? If a person found it too burdensome to meet physically at a board meeting, it may suggest that the person does not place enough emphasis on the meaning of the board function. In this context, one should also take note of the proposal in NOU 2008:16, concerning a change in the statutory audit law § 2-3 that the board of audit firms should meet with auditors each year without the presence of daily tenants or others from the day-to-day rental. The Labour Party has asked for an outsourcing of the possibility for it to be opened so that the Board of Directors can handle annual accounts and annual reports without holding a physical meeting, and asks the Government to come back with this in its own way. The introduction of the seven-day rule can hardly be called a change of significant importance – it has not been out on the ears. It is only a useful preparation for the companies and shareholders. It is not correct that the seven-day period proposed by the Government can be used by the Management Board to prevent matters from appearing on the agenda. The requirement in Section 5-11 on the re-dispatching of the notice implies that the Board of Directors does not have any possibility of withdrawing from the shareholders the right to put questions on the agenda by sending out an early call. On the contrary, the broadcast of the notice will only temporarily impose an additional burden on the Board of Directors, by increasing the possibility that the Board of Directors will have to issue a new notice in accordance with the rules of Sections 5-11 if matters are brought to the agenda by the shareholders before the deadline for convening the general meeting has expired. When it comes to the issue of whether shareholders should have a decision or a basis for making a case to the board, the government has ended up on a medium-term solution. That's what I'm supporting. Strong actors on one side argue for further limitations in the ability to raise issues, and other strong actors argue for an unlimited right to put matters on the agenda. Perhaps the minority proposal would also be contrary to Article 6 (1). 1 (a) of the Directive and raise questions about its proper implementation. When it comes to sending documents to the General Assembly, § 5-11 a, I just want to refer to the comments made by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e375	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e378	We're concerned that we're going to use more modern technology in our legal system. Then I think it's a paradox that you're not as willing to use modern technology when it comes to small stock companies, which may have very few employees and very small boards. Otherwise, I agree that consideration should be given to employees, but I think it is very strange to hear that you are so concerned that the employees are not able to require a board meeting if they think it is necessary. I would like to say that you have little confidence that employee representatives on the board have the ability to do so in smaller companies, where there is close contact with management. Not least, this is an important proposal for companies with board members residing in other countries, so that smaller companies will avoid expensive travel expenses for them. It's not a matter of lack of interest in governing, but it's simply a way of thinking about the needs of businesses and small businesses, and not just thinking about what's practical for us here at Stortinget. So a little correction of the Workers' Party's speeches. So the majority comment uses NHO as an argument that the government is right. Now it is actually such – we have received a copy of the e-mail – that the NHO believes it is misunderstood. They believe that the representative Heggo misinterprets what the NHO has actually meant when it comes to the foundation of proposals. It is, of course, a paradox that while you are very concerned about the ability of employees' directors to require a board meeting, you are not at all afraid of the rights of smaller shareholders in limited liability companies compared to the fact that they like to meet many creative reasons that matters are not on the agenda, but say that they are management, etc. and not a case for the general meeting. If you're busy with the little man, it would be okay if you were occupied with the little man who was also the small owner of a corporation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e389	We have two stock laws today that distinguish small and medium-sized enterprises from large enterprises. There's a lot of big companies, I'll say, which also belongs to the first category, the common stock law. When it comes to the Society's Main Organization, it's right, as you say, that we've got a letter with a correction. But on page 25 of the proposition, it says what's being interpreted by the ministry. Whether it's misinterpreted or not - well, now we've got a correction on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e396	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e415	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e424	The weight industry has grown significantly in recent years. The industry is making an important effort both for private customers and for society as a whole. Sentinels are responsible for high values and must carry out their tasks in a reliable and proper manner. Unfortunately, there have been some unfortunate incidents in which weights have been involved. This was also one of the reasons why the Soria Moria Government announced a review of the industry legislation. This bill is a consequence of that work. The Committee strongly agrees with the legislative proposal submitted. The new law provides for a separate provision of purpose which emphasises the legal certainty of the public, ensures quality of service and facilitates effective control of the industry. In addition, this law must prevent watchkeeping activities which, by reason of their military or other security nature, are incompatible with this law or contrary to international law. The importance of the last moment has been made clear in recent weeks through media reports. It is proposed to extend the scope of the law, so that self-monitoring and training in watchkeeping activities are also covered by the law. This will lead to more people being subject to the law and thus to no circumvention of the legislation to organise the watch as a self-service. This also means that there is now a clearer regulatory framework for night shifts. There are several proposals that the law makes when it comes to the control of the industry. I believe that the most important thing will be the annual background check of all employees and owners of the watchkeeping companies, together with the reporting obligation of the tax authorities, Customs and Labour Inspectorate, which in total will provide a more effective control system. This will also be reinforced when a central electronic watch register is put in place. There are many details in the law that I could have taken for granted, but I want to stay a little at a moment that may not have been so much mentioned in the public debate, that is, the part of the purpose of companies operating abroad. We get from time to time reports in newspapers and the media about people operating abroad in conflict zones. Often this is done as an adventure – well-paid jobs that are exciting. Rarely is the impact on the individual operating abroad in terms of both mental and physical damage, and rarely is the legislation under which these companies operate in conflict zones. Now it is the case that we discussed in this Chamber a few years ago new provisions on war crimes. It was, as far as I remember, six paragraphs specifically referred to how to act in conflict zones. The fact that we now have a new law that also regulates companies operating abroad, which are registered in Norway, and where we can better go in and control the reputation of both employees and owners, will help to ensure that, in sum, we do not have a legal space in terms of operating in conflict zones – as you can get the impression that some people believe. In addition, there is no international grey zone to operate in private security companies outside the world. I believe that over the last few years we have now put in place a significantly better law to regulate this part of the business outside the world, and that we have made it clear that it is not without consequences for individuals to operate in conflict zones. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the regulatory work to be carried out by the Government has a good dialogue with the industry, both in order to have a proper definition of self-monitoring and in relation to how to carry out the training. Finally, I would urge Odelstinget to support the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e445	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter, and then, while I remember it, take up our proposals. I believe there is a constant consensus that the watchkeeping industry has come to stay in Norway. It is a tool to meet a social need that the police should not or should not do. The challenge then is to go up that path – to clarify clear expectations for the Norwegian police and their responsibilities, while at the same time there will be a corresponding regulatory framework for Norwegian watchkeeping companies. In general, Norwegian weight companies do an excellent job, and they maintain a segment of society that no one else covers. I think we should give them credit for that. Unfortunately, there are isolated cases in the security sector, in the police, and perhaps even among politicians, where a bomb is being committed. So it's human to fail. It's human to make up for, and it's human to be allowed to come back. I think we should be careful about attacking the weight industry to be unyielding and unreasonable. That there are some people who might be creative and should not have been there, is okay. But that's exactly why it's important to make a deal with it now, and to make a law that's comprehensive. Then, with all due respect for the rapporteur's review and reference to the Soria Moria statement, I'm going to do something I don't usually do – I'm going to brag by the Right. The right has undoubtedly been with and push forward the focus on the guard companies. I think that at the very end of the ageing period maybe we can be a little liberal in boasting, so I want to give boast to the Right and honor to the Right for the job they have actually done. Today, when we look at what the committee is doing, a lot of the actual moments that have been up for debate in this room are, in terms of the security companies and the job they're doing. What's good now is that it looks like we're all agreed on the most. So we've moved from a competition about who's best to regulate the guard companies, to agree that the focus is that they should be here, and that our job is to create a code that makes sure they can do the job we want them to do. At least I don't think that we in this room are going to discuss whether we should ban the guard company and get the police to perform those functions. I don't even think we want it. In my opinion, it would be an abuse of the Norwegian police and the education they have, and it would be better for others to do so. The challenge will be, as I have said before, to discuss the gap between them. Another thing that we have to make sure is that the police are actually able to do their job as a control body. It does not help how good a job Stortinget does and Odelstinget does, if we do not ensure that the decision is followed up properly. It's like any other law: if we don't make sure that the law is enforced, the law becomes a political alibi for action here without it having real meaning on the outside. We don't want to do that. If I don't remember correctly, there was a revision of this law in 1999, 2000 and 2001, saying something about the number of police officers who should follow the law. There has been a discussion with former government councillor Dørum, and now with current Minister of Justice Storberget, who believes that we have a system that is good enough. Personally, I have some doubts about it, because I see it as hard for the police to have the resources to do just that, just as they are struggling with other tasks that they would like to have done, but as they find it difficult to give priority to others, more primary tasks. But you have to be optimistic in this industry. Maybe everything's getting better now. In that case, it would be nice to be allowed to join in. But again, I'm glad we're able to keep focus on the need for this. I'm glad we're able to keep our focus on making a clean code, and I'm glad we don't have a war about either – or a yes or no to guard companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e462	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e465	I want to thank the case rapporteur for a good job with this case in Stortinget. Not least, I think there is reason to stress that the challenges of privatising legal security in war zones are a subject that more countries than Norway should address. I hope, therefore, that we can have a broader debate on this on another occasion. Otherwise, thank you for the praise of the Party of Advancement. It is good to see that the civil parties that have intended to occupy the government offices in some way after the election are as united as we are in this matter. It pleases me, and it is received with thanks. In the public debate, you can get the impression that the weights are the ones that go up and down on Karl Johan and patrols. But the watch business is much more. It's a very diverse industry. That is why we think it is good that a new company law is now in place that is more adapted than the previous one. It's hard to say that the priority of this field was the highest at the beginning of this period, so late comes the law, but it's coming well. The industry itself has always been concerned with better control and has, in part, until relatively recent difficulties in hearing from public authorities. The industry has, believes Right, had to take too much responsibility itself, because the public has not done so. I agree with the representative Ellingen, who gives honor to an industry that is basically serious and proper. It's the outcasts in the industry we want to live first and foremost. But this is an important contribution, so that the serious parts of the industry can continue with the good work they do. So it's not the watch business that creates an unsafe society. That's what the police are doing. The question is how the new law that we are adopting today meets the new EU Professional Qualifications Directive, which obliges Norway to accept certified inspectors from other EEA countries. There is uncertainty here about the fact that Norway’s EEA obligations mean that we can be obliged to accept services from non-resident weight companies that are subject to less extensive training requirements and will be able to compete strongly with Norwegian companies. With regard to the scope and design of the training required for the weighing instruments before they can start working, we have received a lot of input. There is a strong need for enhanced education for weights, but the question is whether you paint with too broad a brush, that you are not aware of the peculiarities that, after all, exist in the weights industry. We've got a lot of input from the so-called law enforcement agencies. There is a danger that the industry will lose experienced and competent law enforcement officers because of animal and poorly adapted education. Many may suggest that even more than today, the same training may take place several times in order to meet the quantitative requirement required by the bill. It is very important that the Government in the further work looks closely at the extent of the level of education and, not least, how the implementation of those requirements takes place, because we have received many reports that there are several who repeat the same things. It's fine with repetition, but it shouldn't just be repetition. There should be real content in the hours offered. In front of an election campaign, where the description of each other's policies tends to be flourishing in terms of both the one and the other, I think there is reason to stress how basic and basically the whole of the Greatness is in terms of better control of an industry of growth that can get into sharp situations, where it may be difficult for some people to keep their heads cold, but how better education and control makes everyone better able to deal with the situations they can get into, and which we have seen that some people don't handle well enough. Finally, as far as control is concerned, I refer you to the minority proposal on these posts, which the Right and the Advance Party have repeatedly asked for. I agree that it's challenging to have a separate unit at POD, but we think it's necessary to have that kind of point competence, just because it's a special industry. An overview is required and it has been shown that the official control systems have not functioned well enough to date. So we maintain that proposal and hope that you will look at it in the future as well, and not reject it again, just because it's an industry that you need experience from yourself, maybe. It's an industry of growth, and it's incredibly big and unique challenges where you need experience to enforce them in a good way. Then I end by giving praise to the Government before the summer vacation that the law came to an end. And then I'll continue to praise it at all times, the government that is sitting there making sure that control of this law is as the Storting's intention has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e486	It is the citizens of this society and their freedom, legal security and security that are at the heart of the SV and the Government. There is a lot to do to ensure this, including watchkeeping — and now the law to regulate these activities in a clean and good way. I am pleased that the committee is united behind the main lines of the bill, and I can join in the praise that both the representative of the Right and the representative of the Progress Party have given. There is a single committee behind the main lines of the bill. With the examples we've seen in recent years, how some weights use and abuse power against other people, we need this consensus and a clean-up in the law. The legislative proposal suggests that weight gainers receive necessary and adequate training before they are allowed to work as weight gainers. The Committee agrees that the professional level of weighting services needs to be raised in order to ensure legal certainty for the public and that better and more effective control of the weighting industry needs to be facilitated. Guards come in situations where it is easy – and sometimes tempting – to use power. Then it is particularly important that we have people who know their borders and their citizens' rights. The Committee therefore considers that all those who wish to work as weights in Norway need basic training. This will strengthen the legal certainty of people, the security of the instruments themselves and raise the overall level of activity. In many cases, they have access to sensitive information about people, which can easily be misused if society does not have control over who the weights are. A unanimous committee highlights the importance of the objective. I am pleased that the Committee is using its agreement on the purpose of marking the need to set clear limits on what falls within the scope of self-monitoring and what falls outside. I am sure that the deepening of this committee will further clarify the mandate and scope of the instruments. In a globalised world affected by many conflicts and wars, it is important that the rules of war and international human rights are respected. It is important that Norwegian companies respect the rules of war and human rights when operating abroad. We are therefore particularly pleased with the fact that a unanimous committee, in its comments, emphasises that the law will also apply to Norwegian companies when they engage in acquisition or self-service activities abroad. The law provides for the establishment of a central watch register. This will be particularly important to ensure that those who are not suitable as weights or owners are prevented from entering the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e503	It was an important point in the Soria Moria declaration that we should review this law and get better rules in this area. It's been absolutely necessary for a lot of different reasons. But let me say first of all that weights and others in this industry are performing a lot of services, much more than what is visible to us either in the media or on the street, and there is reason to say that many of them carry out these tasks in a reassuring and trusting way. It is an industry that has been growing rapidly in recent years, and it contributes to the need to take action that is now contained in the legislative proposal under consideration. Besides, we've seen bad results here, and I hope, like several, that this doesn't draw a picture of the industry as such. We don't have reason to believe that. But at the same time, the law that we are adopting today is supposed to be a protection and prevent the kind of rash that we don't like, and it often has to be directed towards the kind of rash. In this way, I believe that much of what is stated in the bill, and insofar as the practice of the police in relation to their control activities, is useful to reduce the number of such unfortunate results. It is proposed to extend the scope of the law so that self-monitoring and training in watchkeeping activities are also covered by the law. And, as you know, we are proposing to raise the educational level of weights, both qualitatively and quantitatively. The purpose of the law is also extended to prevent watchkeeping activities which, by reason of their military or other security nature, are incompatible with watchkeeping activities, or otherwise are illegal or contrary to international law. The amendment aims at preventing watch-keeping companies operating ‘ordinary’ watch-keeping in Norway from providing services in breach of national or international rules abroad. This would be tasks close to military operations. Control of weighing instruments and watchkeeping companies is stepped up. The police shall check each year the undertakings based on reporting. And I've always thought that it's quite irrational to measure the effect of the police's business in this field – where you have something left, but where you've really taken good steps in the right direction – depending on whether you get the five positions occupied, which I understand the previous government had ambitions about. This cannot be measured from five positions. According to my concepts, those who are working on these relationships now, around in Police Norway, are far more than five. But the important thing is what you do to have a technology and an opportunity to perform this type of control faster. That's what the government got into place, and that's what needs to be used. That's where we have to get the districts to follow up, and we're working on that every day. The scope with which background checks are to be carried out is extended in the proposal, so that owners and other persons who have a significant influence on the business must also comply with the requirement of a satisfactory reputation. Such a provision would be a good tool for criminals to set up watchkeeping companies and to gain access to sensitive information, etc. which may be misused in criminal activities. It is also important, in my opinion, that it is proposed, in accordance with the model of the serving law, to legislate a duty to notify the tax authorities, the Customs Authority and the Police Labour Inspectorate if these reveal matters that are likely to be essential for the assessment of the withdrawal of an authorisation to provide security services. Police are given an obligation to notify companies of employees who have committed serious crime or who are under investigation between control if this would not prejudice the investigation. In order to enable the police to perform their functions as authorisation and control authorities in an appropriate and effective manner, a new nationwide electronic watch register is proposed. Finally, it is proposed to introduce clearer requirements for uniformisation and legitimisation. Some of the provisions will be able to take effect immediately. Other provisions, such as filth, will require further regulatory work. However, I am absolutely sure that the proposals will lead to a significant increase in the quality and professionalisation of the industry and, in particular, ensure that the persons coming into contact with weighing machines will experience an increased level of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e532	I perceive that the Council of State is concerned that we should have cleanliness in the industry. I can see that the Storting fully agrees with him. At the same time, we also have another challenge for the Norwegian police, and Norwegian police are also sometimes accused of having problems keeping to the right side of the line. In fact, there is currently a lawsuit against two policemen about what they may or may not have done. My question is: Can the Council say how many reviews are available annually against a watchkeeping company versus employees in the Norwegian police force, to make it clear that Norwegian watchkeeping companies are so much worse than Norwegian police, if you can measure it by reviews.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e539	I go with a lot of weird up my head, but just the number of reviews I don't have. But I'm going to promise that we're going to try to produce it, because we're at the service of the Storting. At the same time, I would like to stress that when there are now legal proceedings against policemen, it shows that there is a control there that works, and that you take these kinds of cases seriously. I would like to say that what has now been done – there have been several parties involved – in relation to the police control mechanisms and that the Government has reduced a sample, Liv Finstad's sample, which has given notice, helps us to have discussions on this in the future, in order to ensure the most effective control possible. I don't think it's appropriate to compare who does the most wrong actions per. employed, to say it that way. The point is that these are important services for society. Both businesses, the police and the weight industry, have everything to do with knocking down those who cross the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e547	I would like to say that the Council of State may be a little heavy on it, when it is not yet clear what the five positions are about. I would recommend him to read what we have said before, and the reason for the positions, and not use it for anything other than what it is. But that's not what my question is about. My question is to provide information on sensitive conditions, and it is an important commodity for organised criminal environments. Guards have great opportunities to obtain such information, and criminals will have as a strategy e.g.: to introduce themselves to weighing instruments that come into contact with such information. Once this law has been passed, what will the next step of the Government be to get better control of such information flow, if you can call it, from the watch industry to criminal environments, to the extent that it happens today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e554	I do not have much to do with the five positions. It is very easy for me to say – and I have said that a number of times in Stortinget – that I believe it is an inappropriate goal in terms of driving control. It was obviously inappropriate also for the parties that sat in the previous government. They had four years to establish the five positions, but they didn't. I also believe that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has at least suggested a good explanation for that. So it has to be the questioner who in this way has a lot of weight for it compared to understanding why we don't. When it comes to the issue of information on the road, I believe that the most important thing we can do now to ensure that we get a clean-haired industry is to have an effect in the control, especially against vice. I am pleased that there are more and more districts that are now ‘washing’ the lists of employees against the criminal record, and in this way the regular check between the control times. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e561	I'm not going to ask who has the most heavy for it in this room, because I consider both the two gentlemen involved to be relatively easy. But leave it. My challenge to the Council of State will be as follows: Does what the Council of State has said in its statement and in this change of lines mean that he sees that the resource availability out there is good enough, so that we will not get a look-up in the media or elsewhere that a police officer says: Yes, we would like to do so, but in the resource situation we are facing, we do not have the ability to do all the tasks we would like to have done. The Council of State has repeatedly called for a strengthening of the police budget – rightly – admission to the Police College, the 460 civil servants who came, etc. So the question is simple: can the Council of State now assure the Government that there won't be any more suggestions when the police officers say, "We don't have the resources to do the job that Stortinget expects?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e568	The answer to that is no. We cannot give assurances that notices will not come. But what I can assure the representative is that we are doing what we can to make this verification as effective as possible. I have to say that it is with pleasure that I see more and more districts deploy the data tools that have been launched and built up. It's very important. It's far more important than making five symbol positions at Kripos or where it might be. So it's also important now that we actually get the crew up. I think the representative Ellingen had a good review of his question about what the government has done. So there's 460 civilian positions coming in this spring. It is clear that part of the work that civilians can do naturally is among other things. to carry out administrative checks on lists and to enter data into computers. So if it's at one point that the police would be able to do that problem, it's now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e575	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e580	It is possible that it is the cold that makes it a bit heavy in my head today, that I am a little languid, but I will explain why I asked a question instead that I did not get an answer to – in addition to approx. 17 seconds of polemics against the five positions. What the five posts – or more – are concerned with is following up a unanimous comitology note from when the previous law was passed. That a former minority government investigated the question and did not find it reasonable, we have said not necessarily made sense. We've admitted that. We believe from the Right that there should be a more centralised control of this industry. However, this should not replace the control to be exercised in the police districts – it should be done in addition. That's what these positions are about. The reason why this law comes in overtime is because you haven't had a pressure on this in the police department, because you've had so many other tasks to focus on. That's why it took almost three years — two and a half years — before a working group started working on this, after the industry had not got in touch. This is talking about the snow that fell last year, but that's the story. That's the way it is. Now this is the law. That's good. But I honestly think that it is a problem that before the law was drafted, you have not had a good enough apparatus to have an overview and control of this industry, which is what you are aiming for now. That's what this is all about. Then to the police districts. We see that there will be a lot of summer-closing offices around. These are not the ones who are going to do the job as a decision of this law, among other things. requires? This law needs to be enforced by someone — in addition to the one already established in the POD. Then the question is, is this a law that the police will be able to enforce, in addition to all the other things they are going to enforce – which they are not actually enforcing today? I would like to mention here the reduction in the percentage of disclosure, the increase in the number of referrals and the reduction in the number of cases before the courts. That's the big picture we have to see this in. I think it's time for questions to the Council of State, when he doesn't think this is a problem for the police districts, as you get the impression after hearing his statement. So once again, I want to challenge the Council of State to say something about – and use a little more than 13 seconds – both the strategy for this with organised criminal environments and how the police districts are to be able to enforce this law, to which a collective no-thing is now joining.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e593	With respect to reporting, when you now withdraw the holiday settlement in Police-Norway as an argument that this is not going to go well, it is a clear sign that we are approaching elections in Norway. The number of holiday homes is – after what I have been told by the police director – less this year than last year. It is strange that holiday settlement in the police becomes such a big problem during this government, in the sense that now it is taking out vacations and having to make some administrative changes suddenly a big problem – but it was not under the previous government. The situation was exactly the same then! This has nothing to do with the police's ability to control sentinels. This is really mixing the cards. But then to these five positions. With all due respect, I would like to say that this is from 2001. Right in government in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. Then why didn't they do this? Five posts are suddenly the Achilles heel in this case. My answer is quite clear: I do not think it is appropriate to put five people at Kripos centrally to do this review, because among other things we do. has received a data tool to facilitate the localisation of this job in the districts. I believe that much of the responsibility for this must be local, because the follow-up of this requires local knowledge. So my simple answer is that we don't believe in the solution with five positions in Kripos. Then you have to disagree politically. At the same time, I have to say that the Right in its alternative state budget before Christmas suggested that 160 civil positions should be granted in order to address the resource problems that have arisen in Police-Norway. And then we come now and grant 462! I have to challenge the Right again: what makes you have to face such a difficult situation now, when you get 300 more jobs – people who can go in and do these kinds of tasks? We have to start looking at what is the reality of this. If you argue that you cannot do this job because of a lack of resources, then you have a lot to answer for. So in the Right's alternative budget, there were 160 posts – that was enough. I'm optimistic because you now have clear rules for watchkeeping, and because you start getting good technology to check out, among other things. vandel. We see that more and more police districts do that, and that we will get far better results in this field than what we were in the vicinity of under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e609	For me, the number of posts is completely immaterial. What is essential is that everyone working in the watchkeeping industry – including owners – should be checked regularly every year. What is also essential is that we have a central register that works in the practical everyday life. Then it is a moment for this control not to be centralised, namely that it is the police officers around the country of Norway who also assess the effectiveness of law enforcement, for example. air traffic controllers shall be subject to the system or not, local law enforcement training, etc., which makes local grounding appropriate for checking records. With everyone agreeing that it is important that we check the reputation, that we have control of the industry, I should think that it should be relatively easy to agree that the most important thing is that this is going on in the most effective way possible. The fact that you have the good interaction locally is not negative for anyone. This is a strange debate – which took off. This applies to five posts, which I believe were first proposed by Stoltenberg I. In this way, Bondevik II had relatively good time to get this in place. But I believe to the extent that the time when we thought it was right that this control should only be carried out centrally, is over, as other parts of the law add up to a good local interaction with regard to the guard companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e620	The representative André Oktay Dahl has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e623	I think that's good, because now it's almost like that "my dad is bigger and stronger than your dad" posts. The short version is: when the budget was presented, there were no measures to increase the number of civil servants. Then there was a financial crisis, and then there was a sudden police crisis. At least we had funds for more civil servants when we presented our alternative budget. Fortunately, the government put forward a package after the budget was adopted, where it was realized that there was a shortage of policemen. That's the situation. But now we're going to talk about the future and the watch business is about. If you want more people to deal with this locally, you need to see in your eyes that it is not the police that are able to do it satisfactorily today – when we see the situation in several of our police districts. I hope that the Council of State and the Stortinge together will be able to discuss in the future how we will be able to bring about more police force. We all agree on that. But I record that there is no solution now to the situation of the Norwegian police, which is an important prerequisite for realizing what is the intention of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e632	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 828]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e649	This may not be a big deal, but it is an important matter in these holidays. The summer is the season for the issue of passports. Although we travel a lot otherwise this year too, there is no doubt that this is the part of the year when it is issued deciduously most passports. With this bill, the last element of biometry, the fingerprint, comes into place in the new passports. We have committed ourselves to that through our membership of Schengen. It is important now that Norway adheres to its obligations, so that we get as safe and as good a passport as possible. An overall committee supports the proposal and believes it is very positive that the introduction of the new biometric passports means that we get far safer passports, and that we can thus achieve a significant abuse of Norwegian passports. I think it was an aha experience for more than me when the committee visited Interpol early in the Great Ages and was told that Norwegian passports are actually among the most abused passports in the world, at least if we take into account the size of the Norwegian population. Then it is in Norway's interest to avoid our passports coming into the hands of criminals who falsify them and who deliberately use the false Norwegian identity to commit criminal acts. The new biometrics represent a significant investment in the police force. Unfortunately, there are not enough passport kiosks for all today's passport offices. To put it another way: the regime of the Government means that you halve the number of places where the inhabitants can use to order passports. There is good reason to warn against such a development because centralisation of tasks away from the local loner means less public service, and it can next undermine the whole idea behind the police. I remember that it was actually issued approx. 600 000 passports per year. So this concerns large sections of the population every year, people who somehow need to use passport services. Distance challenges in Norway are significant. This in itself should have led to how far it is acceptable that people should have to travel to get hold of passports. Such passport boxes are located e.g. in Finnmark, it will be necessary in several cases to travel between 16 and 18 miles/return in order to obtain a passport. The minority in the Committee therefore proposes that biometric passports should continue to be issued at the national offices. ID theft is a growing problem and very uncomfortable for those who are exposed to it. Public authorities managing person-sensitive information must take their share of the responsibility to avoid this type of information coming into the wrong hands. The passport should be considered as a security much more, for it is the only complete formal identity document we have. It contains personal data that can be misused if it is biased, with major consequences for the affected person. Minorities in the Committee therefore propose that passports should be provided either at a personal visit to the police or to a lieutenant, or that the passport should be sent by order, so that the passport holder should be able to legitimise when it is handed over. I bring up the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e672	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e675	The case spokesperson dealt with the matter in an exceptional way. I'm just going to point a couple of points where we're not even sure. Getting rid of their passport is a very scary experience. The passport is, as the case spokesman said, the only complete formal identity document we have in Norway today. Away is sensitive information. The Justice Committee has visited Interpol. One of their themes was that Norway is late to report missing passports. I agree that we need a faster registration, and that it is very important. By introducing biometric passports, it will be more difficult to travel with a false passport, so-called "look alike" abuse. In addition, it is positive for the individual passport holder due to a reduced risk of identity fraud. The passport controller is likely to be able to speed up and be less involved by an automatic control process. For the Workers' Party and SV, it is important that it is established that this legislative proposal is within the framework of Article 8 of the ECHR. The electronic fingerprints are stored in the passport and are secure from established encryption and access requirements. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe that the police at all Länsmannskontoret will have to print passports. In the municipality of Balestrande – my birthplace – in Sogn and Fjordane they had a total of 15 passports in a few years. Balestrand is a fantastic building, but one has to get out of the village to get the most needed outside food – both clothes and furniture. We actually travel many times in the course of the year to a little bit larger cities. Within an hour's perimeter, a number of loonsmen's offices are numbered. When one knows that an adult needs a new passport every ten years, it is wrong for me to prioritize the funds for passport machines instead of other important police tasks. Unlike the previous government, this government has actually reduced the cost of issuing passports. When the Right Party and the Advance Party propose to make it a self-cost and that all offices should issue passports – and it is quite expensive to install equipment for it – these batches actually propose an increase in the passport fee. This should be noted by the individual. In addition, customers must pay for the recommended shipment or meet themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e690	The President will remember that in this case there is free speaking time, and the President will be very disturbed when it starts to approach half an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e693	I'll be brief. The case is from the left hand side. These are also the two proposals from the Right and the Advance Party. I see proposal No. 1 is clearly a sign that you still want a decentralised service. The reason why that's a point is the debate we've had in this Chamber on near-police, for example. in the case of the experiment in Follo Police District, for which the State Council has twice slowed down — and we know that in parts of the police organisations there is a desire to centralise. I don't think that there should be passport issues everywhere, but that it should be a decentralisation. And then if you first talk about costs, it costs to go to the place where you get the passport. So it's going to be the way it is. The left is therefore in favour of the two proposals which should not be voted on today, but I think it is right for the sake of the Minutes to say this here and now. I'm not going to use the free speaking time. It could have been tempting, but not now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e709	The president really appreciated it. So the debate is on case No. 5ths over. [[Footing, see page 831]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e728	The current legislative proposal is a follow-up to the Government's 2008 Action Plan on Gender Equality. It is a unanimous committee that supports the legislative proposal that is being presented. Sexual mutilation is a very serious and serious crime, which is most often committed against young girls. And I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't burn for us to get a system that better protects these young girls. Today’s law has limitation periods of three, five and eight years — depending on the criminal framework in which the offence is committed. As a result, when many of these girls realize that they have been subjected to an assault, the limitation period has expired, and there is no way of punishing them. The fact that we now have a limitation period starting from these children's age 18 years, makes it possible to better assess, on an adult and free basis, whether you want to go to court, and you also get better time to reflect on what you've been exposed to. For many of these young people, it is the closest that helps to commit this assault. They also learn that this is quite common and a natural part of it to get bigger, which means that you don't understand what you've been exposed to before you turn 18. For general prevention reasons, I also believe that it is important and right that we now make this amendment, that we have limitation periods starting from the age of 18. The most important thing is that we soon get a case that leads to a conviction. Unfortunately, we've had quite a few years without having done it. Some of the reasons may be short limitation periods, but at the same time there is reason to believe that we have not worked well enough, overall, to get it done. Now I see, among other things. on the basis of an Evening Post release this week, that there are a lot of things under investigation – I think there were twelve here in Oslo. And then we get hope that we get some judges who will show that what we're actually doing now has an effect – also for general prevention reasons. Finally, I would just like to say that it is a unanimous committee that recommends Odelstinget to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e743	Gender mutilation is a very serious offense and a serious crime. The action is taken by adults against minors, usually small children. These are people to whom the child has a relationship of trust and dependence. They're the baby's caregivers. Therefore, the seriousness of the attack is further reinforced. Most parents are very happy with their children. We don't want to hurt them. They're the girlfriend we have. Therefore, it is totally incomprehensible that a father or a mother can expose her own child to this kind of horrendous harassment. But we know that it happens. We also know that the social pressure in the environments in which this action takes place is very great. That is why it is important for society to focus heavily on this, and clearly say that this is not tolerated. A week ago, Stortinget dealt with the penal code. The size of the population significantly increased the penalties for this crime to 6 years and to 15 years. In addition, Stortinget decided that the limitation period for these cases will not begin until the date on which the victim reaches the age of 18. Since it has not been decided when new criminal law enters into force, the Government has proposed a change to the applicable criminal law so that these rules of limitation can enter into force. This assault is committed while the children are young. It may be many years before the child understands what it has been exposed to and reports about it. The children are also happy to be told that the action is necessary and important to them. They therefore need time to understand the seriousness of the infringement. According to the law of the day, the person who has suffered sexual mutilation may experience that the offence is punishable by the rules on limitation. By changing the law today, these children are given better time by starting to run only after they – mostly women – have reached the age of 18. This is an important change. We have to do everything we can to prevent, investigate and punish the assault. Not least, we need to do what we can to help the girls deal with the physical and mental stress. Yesterday we read in the Evening Post that at least 14 police reports related to sexual harassment are now being treated in different police districts here in the country. It's important that we get these things out. In addition, I would like to stress the importance of creating debate in the relevant environments, creating pressure and good attitudes, engaging mothers and fathers in this work to prevent children from being exposed to this action. I know – and I am very pleased – that there is a very active work to combat sexual mutilation in related environments. We know, for example. that Primary Medical Workshop in Oslo is doing a very good job. We know that Red Cross is doing a good job, and that many other organisations within the minority community are doing a good job. I believe that all the firemen who do this good work deserve recognition from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e756	The left is not in the committee, but we naturally support the proposal presented here today. It is of those who have spoken before, given a very good reason why it is necessary. I'm just going to be very careful to underline what has been said: By saying that there is no old age, the chances of these matters coming up at some point in time. You break a lot of the silence around the issues. This is part of the systematic work that we are doing in the Norwegian community to bring this duck to life. This has the strong and full support of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e761	All that we're proposing, all that we're doing in this field, is motivated by the cruel crimes that happen to totally businessless kids. We must not be blind to the fact that criminal law is the only answer to a problem like this. At the same time, I have to say that there is an area where I believe children deserve to be taken into account in general prevention of criminal proceedings, that is this. I have great faith that the individual criminal cases in this field can have a crucial role to play in the other influence work that we all need to do to reverse cultures. This is why the Government has tried to do what we can in order to make matters easier to deal with, but also contribute to a marked response, cf. the criminal proceedings we had the other day. With criminal law, it is often that it becomes more difficult to raise issues the more stringent one becomes. I believe, however, that what is now done in relation to parenthood is, absolutely necessary, first and foremost because when those who are the most vulnerable victims and witnesses in these kinds of cases are actually able to and able to tell about what they have been exposed to – and perhaps also have an adult setting around them that makes it possible to live life more maritime rather than being dependent on those who may also be behind the offence – then it is particularly important that we can open up the possibility that they can tell about it to the police, with full legal effect and with the risk of criminal proceedings. I need to say that this bill concerns an infringement of the ban on sex injury that is committed after the law enters into force. However, I am concerned that the ban should be applied as widely as possible and propose that it should also apply to infringements that have already been committed, but not out of date, upon the entry into force of the law. To the extent that someone troubles it, I feel to say – I also perceive that it is the view of the Storting and all the parties – that this is in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution on the retroactive effect of laws. There are now several police reports related to sexual harassment. There are also likely to be victims of sexual mutilation in Norway who have not yet recognised that they have been subjected to a criminal offence. The new rules on limitation should also apply to those cases. This is why, in a letter of 2 June 2009 to the Justice Committee, I asked for an addition to the bill. I am quite clear that opening up these rules also applies to those matters that are not currently out of date, does not conflict with the rules – among other things. in Section 97 of the Constitution – on the prohibition of the retroactive effect of laws, and that in that way there is no obstacle to it. But since the legislator and, to the extent that the opinion of the legislator on these questions is given importance is given if a question is raised, I have expressed it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e770	No one else has asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e787	Ot. pp. No 89 for 2008-2009, law on changes in disputes, etc. and consenting to the ratification of the 2007 Lugano Convention on Jurisdiction and the Recognition and Completion of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, is what we are dealing with here today. The main objective is to facilitate the implementation of a Convention between Norway and the EU, Denmark, Iceland and Switzerland on jurisdiction and on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, the Lugano Convention 2007. A Joint Committee shall apply the proposed amendments and ratification. The Committee welcomes the EU's accession as a party instead of all Member States, thus extending the Convention to all EU Member States participating in internal judicial cooperation. The United Kingdom is also closed. In addition, the Lugano Convention reflects the position of the European Court of Justice as the Supreme Court to interpret Brussels I and the Lugano Convention 2007. The Convention is an important complement to the substantive rights and obligations arising from the EEA Agreement. The Lugano Convention's stated objective is to ensure a legal framework for EEA cooperation and that the Convention is based on a fundamental principle of free movement of judges. The Committee endorses the necessary changes in criminal procedural law to the necessary modification of the obligation to delete analytical results following a DNA analysis based on consent. This is not technically possible for the Forensic Institute, which must be exempt from erasure obligations. The Committee also endorses the proposed amendment to the extradition law, which is the correction of an incurrency. Some of the worst and most difficult a mother or a father can experience is that the child is abducted. The Labour Party and SV would point out that Norwegian authorities are pursuing an active policy to prevent international child Abductions and are actively contributing to resolving these difficult issues. The best child should always be the main focus. The government has taken a number of measures, but we will develop the establishment of the web portal www. children awayforing.no to help parents who fear or experience child abduction. We would also like to point out measures taken to improve the competence of judges, police and prosecution authorities and lawyers. There will be free legal assistance in child abduction cases, and to ensure equal treatment and rapid handling, all cases will be decided by the County Council of Oslo and Akershus. A Nordic and a national cooperation forum for the management of child Abduction cases has also been established. The Labour Party and SV will also show that the Government is working with a hearing memo, where it is assessed to introduce an economic system that gives the possibility to stop public statements, for example. child allowances, in the event of childbirth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e811	It is possible that I am wrong – in that case it must not be perceived as negative – but I do think that I have heard the last part of the article to the case rapporteur before today, but a good thing cannot be said too often. Enough about that. It is good, as the Council of State and others have been involved before today – not least in the issue of child abduction – that there are good international agreements that regulate how such things should be handled. The challenge, which we have discussed before today, is the extent to which such agreements are respected by the same countries that sign them. Now that an amendment to the Lugano Convention is presented and placed in the Norwegian legislation, I think it is good. But I would have liked the Council of State and the Government to have taken more into account the problem areas related to the case rapporteur at the end of his speech. I understand, of course, that there must be some formalities in how to do things, but it should also be an opening to discuss problem areas. In a letter to the Judicial Committee, I think it was of 26 May, the Council of State has explained six issues that the Committee had, where it pointed out maintenance obligations and a number of other issues. I had expected that they would then challenge – or at least make it clear to Odelstinget that these problems were actually addressed. I have problems seeing that you've actually done it – addressed some of those problems. It is important, of course, in some cases, but it is also such that many are affected by problems that may seem small, even though they are fantastically large for those affected. Then I think it would be in the right place that you also looked at those things. Earlier today, we discussed something that some people experience as being unlawful, which concerns the imposition of a maintenance obligation if they have had a child kidnapped from care they have after a judgment in the Norwegian court. I'm going to think that whoever gets it in the middle of the flint will feel it as a double punishment. Although there is a consequence of an international agreement, this does not mean that it is more reasonable for him to do so. The same applies if, after having carried out a childbirth, you manage to stay liquid in your home country for a long time. Then you can go to a new court and get a new trial. As the Council of State was concerned: if it goes ten years, it's hard. I fully understand that. The Council of State also said in its statement earlier today that time is a significant factor in reducing the risk of child abduction. Then I think you might have to problematize some of the experiences you have with childbirth and a lot of other things. What you do now is refer to the formal requirements, and then you put the Lugano Convention into the Norwegian law. It's necessary, but, as I said, I would have wanted more activity and more focus on the problem areas as well. I think that would have served the cause, and it would have served those who are victims of the problems as a result of the law we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e826	Just to answer the representative Ellingen, so it won't be hanging in the air: I think it's a very important law case Odelstinget now deals with. In many other kinds of cases, it is particularly important that we have these kinds of mechanisms in place to replace the old Lugano Code. At the same time, when it comes to those recordings that come from the Progress Party, it's a little bit unclear to me what you really want to achieve. It has never really been relevant to imagine a trace in the Lugano Convention against, for example. family law and child abduction, mainly because we believe that where the shoe presses, and where we should press more, is through the established Conventional Apparatus we already have. We have something under the auspices of the Council of Europe, but at the same time we have the Hague Convention, to which we have been subjected. I am not sure if it will be particularly effective to get a new lead into the Lugano Convention that takes more care of child abduction, because I don't think that's where we have the big challenges, especially in the countries that are connected there, that it's where it's all pressing. If we want more actors, more nations to be easier involved in child abduction, then I believe that the Government's strategy to get more states to conclude on the Hague Convention is absolutely crucial. That's the process score in those cases. As long as there's something unclear to me what the Progress Party really wants here, this might be an answer in the air. But I need to say that you can have more international agreements, if we see that it is more appropriate to fight for development and dynamics, politically, for example. The Hague Convention on Child Abduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e835	Then Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken that challenge from the Council of State, so the answer may no longer hang in the air. There's something coming here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e838	It remains to be seen. I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some of my point about raising this debate is precisely the challenges we have with the Hague Convention, which we have discussed before today. The Council of State says that it is important that as many countries as possible join it. I fully share that, but that also requires respect for the prerequisites of signing the agreement. I have understood that the Lugano Convention says something about the civil justice processes in the respective countries, and how to deal with them. That was the angle of incidence from my side to this. The Council of State and the Government may do a great job, but in that case I actually think that you are very careful to share the information with the Stortinget. If you do a good job, I'd like to be proud of the Government. But if you keep this outside of this hall, it'll be hard for us. I expect the Council of State has nothing against boasting about an excellent job, but then he has to be kind and share it with Stortinget, so that we have the opportunity to give him credit for what he might do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e847	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e864	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e873	This is a good day. The matter we are dealing with today, I believe, is the most important issue of equality that this big business has dealt with since the abortion law and the equality law were adopted 30 years ago. Again Norway shows that we are a leading country in the field of equality. The incorporation of the Women’s Convention into the Human Rights Act shows that women’s rights are taken seriously. The Women’s Convention prohibits discrimination against women and has an independent role in a number of important areas. The inclusion gives a clear signal both in Norway and the world that women’s position will be strengthened. In a globalised world, where economic, technical and religious regulation is evading national law, human rights are a necessary and democratic extension of the legal protection of the individual. Equality is not a legal foreign element, but a fundamental value that Norwegian governance through long-term and sustained efforts within the UN has contributed to internationalisation. It was high time that the Women's Discrimination Convention was incorporated into the Human Rights Act together with the other central human rights conventions. Although the Convention has been incorporated into the Equality Act since 2005, it is a major step forward that it is now incorporated into the Human Rights Act with primacy. Now is the time to make the women’s rights that Norway has promoted internationally, fully applicable to Norwegian women. This means that women’s rights under the Convention shall not lapse in accordance with other Norwegian law. The Convention will be used to a greater extent as a legal basis for the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, the Equality and Discrimination Department and the other legal entities. This will give a greater and deeper understanding of women's rights. It is important that the Convention is actively applied in the future, both by those who consider themselves discriminated against and those who are required to enforce the law. The position of women will then be strengthened, and the legal status will be clarified. The party of progress claims that this is a campaign stunt. But this has been an important matter for the Workers' Party for a long time. The first time the Workers' Party went in for this was in 1999. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the three red-green parties agreed to incorporate the Women's Convention. But what has turned out to be a stunt is the Progress Party as an equalizing party, as the party tried to give an impression at the national meeting a month ago. In the suspension, the Progress Party says that very few women feel oppressed in Norway and that the repression taking place in Norway is criminal. They also say that this is regulated by law. It is strange that the Progress Party is proposing to remove perhaps the most important law to promote equality between women, namely the Equality Act. The Gender Equality Act regulates harassment, the Gender Equality Act regulates exclusion from work, the Gender Equality Act regulates very many important areas that are important for women's legal status. So this is a law that the Progress Party wants to remove. The Party for Equal Opportunities does not stop there. The Party for Equal Opportunities, which they now like to present themselves as, also wants to remove other important legal instruments to promote equality. They will remove the Equality Ombudsman and they will remove the rules on allowances. I believe that this case has indeed shown that the Progress Party is not the equality party they claim to be. I am very pleased that the Government has such broad support in Stortingen in this important matter. Other parties have turned around and now support this matter, and I regret that it turns out that the Progress Party has once again thrown blues into the eyes of the many people who may have believed in the words that fell at the national meeting, that the party is now concerned with equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e896	The Women’s Convention shall ensure that women have the same rights as men. The Women's Convention points to essential naturalities, such as the right to education, the right to own property and the right not to be subjected to violence. Norway is obliged by international law to comply with the Convention, and the Progress Party believes that what is in the Convention is protected by Norwegian law. In fact, very few women in Norway feel oppressed. Where this happens, we have a law that takes care of this in relation to the criminal law. The Chairman of the Committee suggests that the Progress Party has voted against the Equality Act. As far as violence against women is concerned, it is covered by the penal code. In the case of jobs, it is covered by the Working Environment Act. Then I would like to remind the representative of the Bjørnface that she should read the Innst. S. No 56 for 2004-2005, where a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs provides: «consent to the approval of decisions of the EEA Committee on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women when it concerns access to work». [[...]] This is said by an overall committee – which is also behind the Advance Party. The party of progress does not accept that women are being oppressed in any form whatsoever. In a democratic society, women should never be regarded as inferior and have fewer rights than men. As a society, we can never accept that religion or culture legitimizes that women are not given the same opportunities, freedoms and rights as men to make individual choices and to live the life that each individual wants. In the law that we are to adopt today, there is a question of whether the women's convention that has already been observed in Norwegian law today is to be incorporated into the human rights law. That's what the Progress Party believes is a symbol action from the Government. Such incorporation will have no consequences or changes, except that some can sunbathe as they travel around Europe and say that it is now incorporated into the human rights law. Then I would like to ask a question: if this is so important, and this is such a crazy big day, why has neither Denmark, Sweden, Finland nor Iceland seen this importance? I want to refer to a chronicle that stood in the newspaper for a while back, from Hans Petter Graver: ‘International legal developments are running smoothly. National responses are the only ones that can correct development.’ The Progress Party believes that we should be careful to give the Convention precedence over Norwegian law, especially when there will be no consequences with the law passed today. Incorporating the Women’s Convention into the Human Rights Act will not help to protect gender equality policy. That is why the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e924	Clearly, it is important for us to incorporate this into the Human Rights Act. If I were to use the representative Horne's logic – that Denmark, Sweden or Finland have not – we could say that Saudi Arabia has not done it, that Iran has not done it, or that Somalia has not done it. If we're going to choose that logic, we're going to put ourselves at that level, I hope the Progress Party has better ambitions for equality both in Norway and elsewhere in the world than that. Nothing is a matter of course – not democracy, not freedom, not freedom of expression, not protection against violence or discrimination. Nothing! These values and rights have not come of their own. They must fight for it, and they must be protected, strengthened and defended every day — nationally and internationally. SV has long fought for the incorporation of the Women’s Discrimination Convention into the Human Rights Act. We are therefore pleased that this is being adopted in the Grand Duchy today. Norway is currently confirming its position and status as a priority country for equality. Such a decision shall be binding. By including the Women's Discrimination Convention in the primacy of the Human Rights Act, we ensure that equality and the prohibition of discrimination against women will be a central consideration in legislative work and management, including in the future. And we send a strong signal both nationally and to the international community about how important it is to strengthen and safeguard women's rights. In this way, we are also strengthening the focus on discrimination against women at home. Although we like to think that we're the best in equality, we know that there's still a way to go. Take, for example: equal pay. The Equal Pay Commission notes that women are discriminated against when they receive the pay bag. They still make 15 pst. more than women. So women get less for the same job than men with similar education and experience do. Thanks to this government, we reversed the Working Environment Act after the last election. In the law adopted by the then government parties, of course with the support of the Progress Party, job protection was significantly weakened. And who does that go against? Well, there's women that go out there. It is natural that women leave the job at birth, and the gender pattern still suggests that there are women who go into working hours while the children are young. There are also women who still have the largest share of short-term positions. All this suggests that we must continue to focus on the position of women and gender equality in Norway. Therefore, SV will work for equal pay, and this has SV and the party leader made one of the main things. Once we're about equal pay, the Progress Party tried to make it an important matter. It also became the case at the national meeting. But we see that although the matter is important, it is not even included in the work programme. Then there are two things that usually tend to be: either it must be a matter of course when the party program does not take on these kind of important issues – and we know that there is no obvious – or the issues are so important that they are included in the party programme, because that obliges them. Here, too, the Progress Party shows its true face in terms of equal pay. Then my colleague went in – and went through thoroughly – how the Progress Party thinks about gender equality in Norway. The Progress Party will remove both the Equality Ombudsman and the Equality Act, and they want to weaken all other instruments for equality between men and women. Solveig Horne said in his post that everything doesn't have to be in the law. Well, if we use the same logic, the Progress Party has actually done a lot of work in terms of gender equality within the various minority communities. There comes the Progress Party with both concrete, point-to-point, legislative proposals and other measures. If the logic implies that there is a need there, why is there no general need in society, especially in terms of women and general equality in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e943	In a previous post, you drew historical lines. It happens when I show people around here in the house, that I do it too. Then I'll stop in front of 1905. I'm not telling the usual 1905 story that the Union was dissolved. I'm telling the story of how Norwegian women collected 250,000 signatures in the course of 14 days in 1905. Then I say that it led to a few years later that Norway was the third country in the world that gave general voting rights to women, after New Zealand, which was at that time part of the British community, and Finland. Then I could continue to say that I know some of the people who organized the women's union – the women's coups at the Norwegian municipal elections in 1971. As a result, I agreed to enter the Left, as the first party in Norway, a quota to ensure that we got women. It's a fact that it rocked us after a party split, because the men, who were always unfamiliar, retreated a little, and the modest women who were asked to stand up. It is also a fact that I am a member of the party that first chose a woman as a leader in Norway and used the term of leadership. It's a pretty complex scale over what's the greatest moments. I think the point is that in equality and in ensuring that the genders are equal in society in all areas, there are long lines and many moments, and it's important to keep those moments all the time. For my part, I'm going to say that the left vote for the setting in the case today. But I've always had a twin, and I'll explain it. I think we have had too much debate on the legal technique and not on the content of the law. It has to be the substance of the law that matters. It must be the content of the law that determines how good we are to promote equality in a number of areas. I myself have been in a government that introduced quotas to make industry understand that women could sit on corporate boards. It was kind of ingrained to understand that, but eventually -- because you had a law, you understood that. I see quite clearly the point that with the integration you are doing today, you ensure good results in the legislation for later. I see it as a good and independent point, and that's also why I vote for it. But I am also of the opinion, which I understand the Government has signalled, that there must not be a race to incorporate any international convention into Norwegian law, for some of the conventions I have encountered are partly half-yearly political resolutions, which are no better than national legislation that has been successfully fought with the law's workmen and the text of the law, given that both heart and head will promote equality or, for that matter, will fight racial discrimination, etc. I will not go further than to say that in cooperation with the Council of State that sits in the Ministry of Justice now, and many other good forces, we finally got a Finnmark law. But it was not particularly helpful to look at the Storting's treatment of the ILO Convention. There was a connection that didn't have one material reflection, and when we went into it, we discovered that it was connected by countries that basically didn't care so much about indigenous people. So in Norway we had to act on our own, and we managed because we had the strong political will to do it. We realized that we were going to clean up the indigenous situation, and we succeeded. I want to say that there was Norwegian policy at its best – an incredibly good, cross-political cooperation to put in place legislation that has been important in a demanding landscape. When the Left votes for inclusion today, we say at the same time that we would like to have a general debate on which bodies are best placed to make the best legislation. We're at the ideals that there's a lot of work going on in the equality process. There is a great deal of uncertainty about promoting anti-discrimination. But we ask the question, where's the best? Let me finally say that I have e.g. met the European Torture Commission as Minister for Justice. It took a while before I realized that they had different scales depending on which country they came to. When you see that international institutions have one scale one place and another scale another, you don't get calmed down. Finally, when you realize that the decisions are taken elsewhere, you have to ask the question: does the definition mean that Norwegian elected representatives are so stupid or so bad in their heads that they are unable to make progressive legislation? I don't think so, and that's why I started by taking the example from 1905. It made the impression on all the gentlemen who manned the Stortinget at the time, that Fredrikke Marie Kvam and others collected 250,000 signatures in 14 days. It made such a strong impression that we got the female vote in 1913. Yes, we will learn from those who have been pastors. We're going to learn from that mobilization ability. The left will vote for the majority position we have today. We believe that there is a great deal to be done in both gender equality and anti-discrimination work, but we would like to leave behind a debate on what is the best way to promote the content of legislation, and it should not be a debate on the technique.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e964	With this proposal, the Government is fulfilling an important promise from the Soria Moria Declaration. But it is also an important handshake for all those who live in Norway, and especially the women. The Convention on Women’s Discrimination contains basic values which must not give up in the meeting of national law. That's the main reason for what we're doing now: giving priority to the convention. The proposal will strengthen and safeguard women's rights for the future, and I would like to emphasise the latter: ensuring women's rights for the future. So if you can now constant that there is no material legal force to raise this step-by-step, I think it's definitely important that we focus more on securing women's rights for the future, whether it's new rights, or taking care of the established rights that you already have. That's the good reason. When we hear representatives from the Progress Party want to almost rage what you have built up institutionally to take care of equality, to promote equality, I think it is necessary – more than ever – to ring around this, among other things. by strengthening protection in the way we do today. At the time of the adoption of the Human Rights Act in 1999, the three so-called Main Conventions, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Conventions on Civil and Political Rights and Economic, Social and Cultural Rights respectively were incorporated into the Human Rights Act with precedence. The majority of the Judicial Committee then felt that the Children's Convention and the Women's Discrimination Convention should also have the same status. The majority asked the Government to come back with suggestions to this effect. The Children’s Convention was incorporated into the Human Rights Act in 2003. In 2005, the then government, Bondevik II, chose to include the Women’s Discrimination Convention in the Equality Act. The current government parties argued at the time that the Convention should also be incorporated into the Human Rights Act, but did not get through to it. It is therefore particularly gratifying to see that there is a broad majority in the Committee – and now in Odelstinget – who are in favour of giving priority to the Women’s Discrimination Convention. So a few words, very briefly, about minority comments. The Party of Advances designates the proposal as a 'unspeakable stunt from the Government' and a 'populist symbol' proposal. I could not have disagreed more. On the contrary, it concerns extremely important value issues. These are fundamental issues of welfare, not only for women, but also for men, in my opinion. It has a generality in itself that makes sure that this convention deserves the same height and status as those I've been to. There are demanding value issues, which require demanding law and demanding political balance. Nevertheless – or perhaps just because – we see that the issue has involved many people, and we have heard many strong and thoughtful speeches on the matter, both in the context of the hearing and in the debate in the media. We are simply facing an important and engaging principle debate. I will agree with the minority in one thing: we do not see that the proposal has an immediate impact on Norwegian legislation. But without reality, it's not. The symbolic value is important. The same is true of the signal we send to other countries and other states. As in many other fields, these are important signals. These sides are already well lit. The legal significance of the proposal remains to be highlighted. Some values are so basic that they should not compromise with rules of ordinary law. Some of these values are found in the Constitution, and also in the very central human rights conventions, including the Women's Discrimination Convention. It is important to protect such fundamental values, including: by ensuring their specific status in legislation. The primacy of the law on human rights shall ensure that the basic values are passed on in relation to other values which may also be important, but which still belong in a kind of lower division or ‘lige’. Although we today consider Norwegian law to be in line with the Convention, it may be important to ensure the basic values of politically more uncertain times than those we are now accustomed to. At the same time, the Government makes it clear that we do not want to include more conventions in the Human Rights Act. The five conventions which will be governed by the law after the amendment constitute a rootstock of the protection of human rights. If we bring in more and more special conventions at the same level, we can end up weakening the protection we want to achieve. Getting all the priority, it's nothing that takes precedence. That's why I'm proud of that system and the distribution we get today with the five central conventions in one class separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e985	Either I'm the one that's miswording me, or there's someone who's not listening all the time today. The proposal we are examining now concerns whether this Convention, which is already in conformity with Norwegian law, is to be given precedence over Norwegian law. The Progress Party is against giving this Convention precedence over Norwegian law. Both the Council of State and the representative Akhtar Chaudhry clearly say that these are important signals to send internationally and that there will be no consequences for Norwegian women to give priority to this convention. If there are anyone who can have any consequences, I would like to receive them with thanks! Then the representative from SV was very concerned with equal pay and what was not, in the programme of the Progress Party, and what was said at our national meeting. Yesterday I attended a debate in the Nursing Association where this very thing with equal pay was discussed. Now it turns out that the government has not done anything about this matter either. It is not always that everything that is important is in the party programme. What's important is if someone's doing something. From Siv Jensen of the Progress Party, there is now a Document No. Eight proposals to give exactly the nurses, or the low-paid women's nurses, a paycheck now after the payroll. But the way the proposal is right now, it doesn't look like there's a majority for it. And if Akhtar Chaudhry is so busy with the low-paid women's girls, he should perhaps ask whether he can at least be allowed to vote for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e999	I noticed that the representative Horne repeated the argument from the comment of the Progress Party that very few women in Norway feel repressed. Given that this is a correct description – why is that? Well, there are some parties in this country that have really taken equality seriously, preceded, implemented laws and implemented decisions that make Norway one of the most equalised countries in the world today. The parental leave is an example of that. The propulsion party is the only party that has voted against all the extensions to the parental leave. There is something to think about when we know that the reason we have such high levels of professional participation in Norway, including among women, is probably largely due to, among other things. parental leave. Now I don't think the description of the Progress Party is right. We know that there are still major gender inequalities in Norway. The representative Horne was about the question of equal pay. Yes, then it is a pity that the Progress Party wants to cancel the central settlement arrangement and rather would have local settlement. We know that will have serious consequences for women's position. I have noticed that the Progress Party has been very concerned about equality for minority women. Then I think it is very sad that the Progress Party is going in to preserve the arrangement that is perhaps the most conservative for the structure we have today in relation to gender equality in this area, namely the cash support. They have refused to introduce free core time into kindergartens — something that we know would be important to increase the number of minority women in their working life, for example. It is possible that incorporating the Women’s Discrimination Convention into the Human Rights Act now will have little effect. But I'm sure that if we were ever to go into a situation where the Progress Party was ruled, with the consequences it will have for the Equality Act and the Equality Ombudsman, then there is a need to incorporate the Women's Discrimination Convention into the Human Rights Act. Then the representative asks Horne why not other countries have done this. If Norway were to wait for other countries when it came to gender equality, Norway would not be in the position we are today by being the most equal country in the world. It's a consequence that we've gone ahead again and again that we have that position. Finally, I just saw a measurement where the Progress Party has lost one in five female voters since its national meeting. I think it's because Norwegian women have looked through the Progress Party's words that they're concerned with equality. We see every day – this is probably an example of it – that the Progress Party is not concerned with equality when it comes to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1016	I was in this in my previous post: When we have an important political issue, which we want to fight for and spend time on in a big time period, we write it in the party program. It does all of the games. We've done that over a longer period of time. There is one reason why an important matter does not come into a party programme, and that is that it is a matter of course. We all know that equality is not exactly a matter of course for the Progress Party. Therefore, if it was a real matter, we would have expected it to be part of the party program of the Progress Party. The Progress Party shall promote this Document No. The 8-proposal in Stortinget well knew about two things: one is that it's a complicated matter, and that's exactly why they knew that no parties would vote for the proposal, so they promoted it. If it was important anyway, I think they should get it into their program. Several people have noticed this. The nurses’ association has noticed this. I'm sure many women's and women's organisations have registered what kind of double games the Progress Party is doing here. The progress party knows it very well. If they don't know, they have to know it's not that simple. It's a tripartite collaboration that must last. That's when we can do equality work out there. Employees, employers and the Government must agree on how to raise the wage level of low-paid women. So the next point is, it's not just raising the pay level to low-paid women, and then we've abolished the gap. That's what's also the point. That's why it gets complicated too. Not only do they get a paycheck, but they keep a frame around it, so everyone who gets 15 pst today. less wages than boys, is raised to a decent salary level and the distance between boys and girls with equal education and equal experience is abolished. It is true that women's rights, labour rights and the working environment are not the main issues for the Progress Party. One wants to remove central collective agreements. Who wants it to go out on the outside? Why do LO and all the other employee organisations oppose it? Well, they know that this will lead to the removal of the acquired rights that have been used 100 years to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1030	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1047	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President cannot see that someone has asked for the floor, and the case-rapporteur is not in the Chamber either. Then we move on to the next case. [[Footing, see page 834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1072	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1081	I only have a brief brief briefing on this matter. Ot. pp. No 65 for 2008-2009 provides for amendments to the Fire and Explosion Protection Act and the Electricity Surveillance Act. The legislative amendment consists mainly of clarifying and clarifying the legal status of the day. The aim of the legislative proposal is also to correct a few incubators that occurred during the previous legislative process in 2002. In addition, some new proposals, including extending the scope of the law, are promoted to include «reactive substance», provision for municipalities to provide local regulations for the launching of fireworks, and a new provision on the state supervision of the municipal sector – fire services – adapted to the municipal law. The proposal is not expected to have significant economic or administrative consequences, either for the State or for private operators. An overall committee is behind the present position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1092	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 835]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1110	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1121	I will first correct an incursion in the setting. On page 9, first column, third paragraph, there is a quote from NOU 2009:1. In the fourth and fifth lines, it reads ‘Data Protection and Health Directorate’. The correct quote shall be ‘Health Authority’. I ask that it be corrected in a later version. Ot. pp. No 51 for 2008-2009 contains four key elements. One central element is the delivery of and access to the journal and journal information, with the amendment of Section 45 of the Health Care Professional Act, as part of easier to send and receive health information across businesses. Another central element is access to in-house treatment-oriented health records across the business boundaries, as amended by Section 13 of the Health Register Act, so that journal data can be obtained from other activities. The third element I want to highlight is the establishment of cross-activity health records, as well as reporting obligations for this type of register. The interpretations in Section 6 and Section 13 of the Health Register Act make it possible to have an indirect prohibition on the establishment of such registers. The Ministry enters into a section 6a of the Health Register Act so that cross-company treatment registers can be established and that the premises for establishment are regulated. A fourth key element is the establishment of cross-activity treatment-oriented health registers for health professionals with formalised occupational communities. There has been a good deal of media attention on this issue because there has been a debate in the public space on privacy, and this is a debate that I, as the rapporteur, would like to welcome. I first want to give a general consideration. This debate is therefore not about whether patient records should be electronic or not and whether or not data should be transmitted electronically. All the authorities that have expressed their views are for the electronic storage of journal data and for the electronic transmission of patient data from the journal. An argument that is often raised in the debate is that while paper records float around easily accessible, electronic records are inaccessible to unauthorised persons, so that privacy is better protected when the information is stored electronically than if it is on paper. There's an impression I want to correct. An electronic journal can of course also be printed on paper, and my experience through 26 years of work in the healthcare system as a doctor, is that it is printed far more on paper from an electronic journal than it is copied from a paper file. In addition, when the electronic journal is available in different places, it can also be printed in different places. So the problem that paper can float, is amplified in many ways by an electronic patient record, it doesn't get weaker. It's exactly the same way as here on the house. If you print a document on the wrong printer, it might come out in another part of the building, not where you should have picked it up. Often such documents are not retrieved either. It's exactly the same way in hospitals. My impression is that a part that does not contribute to this daily has confidence in how people handle electronic patient records and prints that are not particularly striking in relation to reality. I also see that the Data Protection Authority points it out in its report and identifies major deficiencies, not least in health companies. As I see it as the case rapporteur, there is a need for additional security measures in the case of electronic records in conjunction with a paper file, because it is necessary to ensure that both printouts from the electronic file do not go wrong, and that electronic data itself does not. There are several examples of material with person-sensitive information sent electronically, such as: to the supervisory authorities, in the event of an error, although they should have been exempted from disclosure, it is very easy to publish information on the network electronically. Then to the bill itself. The first three elements I have mentioned here relate to access to information across treatment establishments, and I am referring to them as a whole. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party, support the Government's proposal to allow patient information to be transmitted not only electronically but also from other activities. However, the majority have consistently underlined the need for active consent from the patient in order to do so. One consequence of that statement is that no parties are on the government's original bill. It makes clear the importance of having an active examination of the committees and effectively addresses the objections raised by the hearing bodies. Both the majority and the minority agree that the person to whom the record information relates shall be entitled to have access to the health records of those who have had access to health information about him or her. All parties thus support an addition to Section 13 of the Health Register Act, where the addition reads: ‘The data subject is entitled to have access to the health record of the person who has had access to the health record of him or her.’ The minority of the Committee, consisting of the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left, refers to the objections raised by the supervisory authorities and quotes from the Hearing Opinion of the Data Protection Authority, where it states: ‘If the recipient is to assess which specific information is necessary and relevant in each individual file, he must necessarily have access to the entire file. There is a high risk of access to information which is not necessary and relevant. In order for health professionals to maintain, in substance, silence on matters which are not necessary and relevant to the recipient, the professional must carry out the assessment himself.’ The minority share the objections of the Data Protection Authority and promote, in line with these objections, horizontal legislative proposals based on the fact that the transmission of patient information from one reporting system to another is to be determined by the person who is responsible for the reporting system at the outset and that the transmission is subject to the consent of the patient information to which the information relates when the information is not anonymised. The same minority point to the fact that, in its opinion, the Medical Association points to the absence of general data protection considerations in the proposal and to the fact that the proposal provides both access to more information than is necessary and to a wider range of individuals than is necessary. The minority share this view. The minority believes that the proposal describes a technological reality that does not exist today. Reference is made to the fact that both the Health Authority and the Data Protection Authority point out that the current information security within the establishments is not adequately ensured. A number of health records and other legislation in a number of health establishments have been found to have been breached by the State Health Authority and the Data Protection Authority. Under such conditions, a major extension of the circuit giving direct access to sensitive information would pose a significant risk of further dissemination of sensitive information. The minority have noted that the Data Protection Commission in NOU 2009:1 notes: ‘External access to the patient record in an establishment requires, in the opinion of the Privacy Commission, good internal management and control. In view of the weaknesses identified by both the Data Protection Authority and the Health Authority through their internal supervision of access control, care should be taken, as pointed out by the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health, in order to extend access to external parties as well.’;» Summary: Both the State Health Authority, the Data Protection Agency and the Social and Health Directorate warn against the solution now supported by the majority, with some modifications. In addition, not all central trade unions, such as the Medical Association, are involved. The Joint Organisation of disabled persons argues against and the Disability Association argues against it. In addition, the Data Protection Authority has, for example: discovered that healthcare professionals in the context of St. Olav’s Hospital’s desire to merge somatic and psychiatric records were opposed because they were afraid that privacy would not be properly protected. The Swedish Data Protection Authority has also revealed that employees at the University Hospital of Nord-Norway have asked for special attention to be paid to employees, so that other employees do not have access to their personal data. In the case of government members and wholesale representatives, special guidelines are linked to the Rikshospital for the processing of personal sensitive data, so that those who are not to be granted access to them. All of this illustrates the kind of challenges you are already facing today. At one point, the minority has a more liberal approach than the majority has. This applies to business-internal data where you work in a work community. There, we believe that the Hearing Officers have a point when it comes to business only internally, and data should not be sent out. It is necessary to have the right to look at the records when, for example, a substitute takes over for another doctor, without prejudice to the legislation. Therefore, in such a case, we believe that there should be no active consent, but that one should object to it, in the same way as in any medical facility in Norway today where the business is organised as a joint venture. Otherwise, in a later article, I will come back and elaborate on some of the points of view as to why I have chosen to be with the minority here, while SV, despite the fact that they have supported me in the matter, chooses to go with the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1168	I recently heard about a patient who had experienced anaphylactic shock due to anesthesia. It is a serious and, in the worst case, fatal condition. Fortunately, she managed, but when she was later to undergo a new operation in a new hospital, she was surprised that the hospital did not have information about what happened last time, so that one could use another type of anesthesia. Luckily, for the most part for safety, she informed about what she thought the anaesthetic staff already knew, but then the operation had to be postponed, so that the hospital could receive information. Similarly, we have received many other examples that the system of good communication is too rigid and important information is not available. There may be older patients who can be sent back and forth between the municipality and the hospital, who get important information that they need to take new medicines or change their medication, and then this information will not be available for a long time afterwards. I and several representatives from the Workers' Party have been to the Orkdal, where we looked at the Orkdal Hospital and the joint intercommunal bodyguard, which was located in the buildings of the Orkdal Hospital, but where there was no communication between the joint intercommunal bodyguard and the hospital in an appropriate way. If someone in my home country, Hordaland, is hospitalized at Voss and then transferred to Haukeland in Bergen, an exchange of information can be done in a good way because it is the same healthcare company. But if one is admitted to Stord, which is also in Hordaland, and then transferred to Haukeland Hospital, then it's blocked, because there are two different health companies. We believe that the Storting cannot accept that the system is so random, and I think there are a lot of people who expect health services to already have far better opportunities than what they actually have, to exchange information if it is necessary to save lives. I think there are few who think that doctors or surgeons in some cases do not have access to patient information that can make an important difference, even if the patient agrees. Perhaps 2,000 patients die every year from mistreatment in Norway. There are many reasons for this, but one of the reasons is watertight bulkheads that prevent access to important patient information at the right time and in the right place. When we provide access to the necessary health information in the journal to those who are to treat the patient, the patient is given a better offer and safer treatment. Patient protection is getting much better, and in some ways safety can also be better than before. The difference is that you can log in and check who has been in and seen. ICT can provide us with new tools, not only for better communication, but also for better control and privacy. Nevertheless, in order to emphasise privacy, we have voted in committee in favour of strengthening the legal text on three points. That was also the subject of the rapporteur-in-Office. There is agreement between the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party in the Committee. The three reinforcements we agree on are, first of all, that access to health information across businesses should only be provided with the explicit consent of the patient on the basis of active information to the patient. Secondly, a request for and access to health information in other activities shall cover only one patient at a time. Thirdly, the patient shall be entitled to have access to a log from a treatment-oriented health record of who has access to health information about him or her. I would like to pay tribute to the Advancement Party for having gone very thoroughly into the handling of this matter and gave us very clear feedback in the government parties on what changes they want to discuss, so that we could jointly get to a global position. Now we get a broad majority of the law with these improvements. We get a law that promotes better and safer information in healthcare for the benefit of patients. Thus, vital health information can be obtained in a timely manner in the right place. It's good science, and it's good politics. At the same time, I have to say that I think it is a pity that the public debate has been so marked by misinformation and horror. It's e.g. a quote from the case-rapporteur of the Dagens Medisin that among 200,000 health professionals accessing the patient information, there will be close relatives, neighbours and a good deal of curiosity, such as: I'd like to find out who's the father of Marit Arnstad's son. Such examples have made us a little despair in the Workers' Party because it is simply very wrong to produce it as if 200,000 people were getting open access to health information. That's not what this is all about, and it's important to think carefully before an ape word in the media, because it's very dangerous and very bad if there's an impression that people are left with. Access to electronic records shall be granted only under strict conditions. Own arrangements shall be made for access to patient information between the establishments to treat the patient. The records shall be structured in such a way that it is clear what information is needed and sensitive information shall be excluded. Determiners must have structured electronic records in place before such an exchange can take place, and the records must be updated on an ongoing basis. Only safety-authorised health professionals are granted such access under strict professional secrecy. So it has been said several times in the public debate that one describes a technology that is not there. But it is often the case in this kind of case that one makes the law decision first, and then one finds the solutions within the law and the limitations the Stortinget has set, gradually. I would believe that the Government could be strongly criticized if it had first started a great work and used great resources to prepare a reform, and then, when it came to the matter, to get no of the Storting when the proposal for the amendment was presented. It will also be very wrong if you only deal with those hearing bodies that are against the law, and not with, for example. the patient organisations representing them, the patients. It has been said that no patient organisations support the Government’s proposal, but two out of three patient organisations in the hearing, the National Association for Cardio-Pulmonary Disease and the Diabetes Association have actually been positive. The attitudes they describe are reflected in the proposition itself, but also in letters sent to the Health and Care Committee. It's not just anyone, but large patient organisations who, of course, want to secure privacy, as we want, and have a record of it, but who at the same time see the possibilities that the law provides to facilitate better patient treatment. The work on good and safe communication of patient information, which we are discussing today, but also a matter such as eRecipt and, for that matter, the improvements in the Norwegian patient register, together contributes to creating a safer health system, with less risk of errors, step by step. I look forward to taking new steps as soon as possible to ensure safe patient treatment. As a health politician, it is very important for me to be able to feel confident that when someone, for example. become acutely ill, the surgeons know what they need to know to save them – at least if they have agreed to such communication, and one can sort out what is important and relevant – and that patients receive the best possible treatment when they are sent back and forth between businesses. Health ICT presents us with new challenges, which we have discussed in several debates in this Chamber over the last four years. But above all, ICT creates development, modernisation, progress and improved patient care. If it gets used in the right way, it can save lives. ICT gives us great opportunities. The question is, do we make good use of these possibilities? In the future, I hope we put greater emphasis on those opportunities and ask ourselves if we are sure that patients get as good help as it is possible to give, without going along with privacy. I think we can do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1200	First of all, I would like to say that the rapporteur gave a good account of the different approaches in this case and the different positions taken. Furthermore, I would like to say, for my part and for my part of the Progress Party, that the representative of the Workers' Party, Dag Ole Tegen, also well explained some of the points of view that the Progress Party shares with the government parties. I would therefore like to try to concentrate on a few key points, which I believe have been important, and not least on why the Progress Party has ended up as we have done in the setting. I'll try to go through it in a simple and straightforward way. What was originally presented by the Government, in this odelstingsproposition, was not good enough for the Advance Party. We wanted a change, because we thought that with what was in the proposition, you wanted to reflect what has been achieved today, that is, instead of getting an explicit consent, you should have the opportunity to make a reservation. There are two very different things about being able to make a reservation and giving an explicit consent when you have received information about what to consent to. Because there's a big difference between the information you're going to produce for patients, the information portal you have, and the introduction of a reservation right. So we thought it was important that through this we also signaled that the patient himself needs to have a much greater influence on his own health information, so that they can make these choices. But then it's also important that, when you choose not to make use of this, and will reserve yourself against it, you should know the consequences of it. The consent bit comes into the picture, because then you need information about what it will mean if you agree that this information should be recorded here, and should be available. And then you should also know that if you choose from your own belief not to do so, there should be a system at the bottom where the information will be kept. The original system, i.e. today's system, will go further in such a context, and then with electronic exchange of information. I feel in many ways that the debate that has been out in society has been relatively unsound, I must say. I would like to refer to yesterday from Romsdal's Budstikke, where a representative of the Left, a representative of the Moors and the Romsdal, says in an article that he is against wide-open records, which this Health Register Act will mean. It is, with respect to reporting, a complete derailment of the debate and direct errors, and it is problematic that people from this room spread that kind of untruth in newspaper articles, because that is not what this is about. Then I've also seen in the media, yes it was actually highlighted in Tabloid in a debate that I myself was a participant in, that 200,000 people will now have access to your journal because of this law. It's, with respect to reporting, directly wrong. Because it's actually a local and regional register we're talking about here. It is not central, and it is not a matter of all healthcare professionals in all of Norway now having access to this. It's important. We also have a responsibility as big-time representatives and as health politicians to participate and contribute to the fact that the information that is being provided is the correct information, so that we do not create an insecurity out there that is not in line with what we are actually about to adopt. Reference has also been made to both the Data Protection Agency, the Health Authority and the Health Directorate. In this context, I would like to point out that their hearing opinions have been to the original draft law. It also applies to the FFO. I brought some letters and e-mails with me – most of the members of the committee have received them. One is related to the Law of Oslo, signed by a section supervisor/advisor, who asks us to adopt this law. He refers to some examples of how important it is actually to have this flow of information. I have also received a letter from Terje Kili, Regional Director of the Consumer Council, Public Sector and Health Officer and Member of the Patient Damage Department. He writes the following: «The Health and Welfare Committee has during these days for consideration by the government's proposals for amendments to the Health Register Act. The purpose of the changes is to ensure that the doctor treating a patient is able, if necessary, to obtain electronic access to health-care professional information from another doctor, or health-care professional. The Consumer Council supports the Government’s proposal.’ We have also received a letter signed by the Managing Director of Ullevål University Hospital, superior/medical professional ICT consultant at Nord-Norway HF, Deputy Managing Director at Health South-East, Project Manager EPJ at Stavanger University Hospital, ICT-Norway – a number of different actors in health care – who all just support that we need a new tool. But I also fully understand the debate that has taken place related to privacy. It's important that we have that kind of debate because privacy comes under pressure from a lot of sides in these days. We are seeing it in an increasing number of areas, either in the form of directives, which are now being worked on in the EU, or what we are doing ourselves, through electronic surveillance, photo-boxes, bank cards – through a variety of things. The Progress Party is well pleased with what we have achieved through the meetings we have had with the Government Council and with the Government Parties. It has been important for the Progress Party to establish that it is the patient, together with the doctor with whom you are being treated, who is to oversee and take the decision related to his or her own journal. It cannot then be a threat to privacy that the patient himself should be allowed to determine his or her own health information. It's going to be very strange. Who, then, will decide what is privacy, if it is not the person himself? In terms of privacy, it is important that it is the person we even listen to. In addition, the law states that explicit consent should be given. However, it is not only explicit consent that is included in the law, but that it should be informed. Information relevant to the decision on consent shall be provided. Furthermore, what is involved in logging and access to the log is also included in the law. Nor is it the case that anyone should be able to go in and check these records or in this register. Strict access control shall be provided. The obligation of professional secrecy must be exactly the same as today. There is no change in the confidentiality provisions. They're going to have to be equal strings. Then I have a great deal of understanding of some of the considerations that, among other things, The medical association has come with us on what has to do with journals. But it's clear that you'll be a little skeptical to that very bit because one of the requirements is that the journals have to be structured in a different way than today, that you have to take a little better time, do a little more thorough work, maybe build a modular patient record, so that it's the relevant information that can be retrieved, without having to ask for the entire journal. The reason why you have to ask for the entire journal is that today it is almost collected in the same document. That's what in many ways creates part of these problems and part of the discussion that's going on out there. I think very many actually are happy that the journals are to be structured and built in a slightly different way. But what I think the people are most happy about is that we get a better system, which means that when we come in today as a patient in a hospital, then the hospital, without undue delay, will be able to access information about us as patients, and that as patients we can say that we want our information to get there, so that we get the help we need, based on the best assumptions, and based on our own medical history. That assessment should be taken of us as patients there and then. We give our consent, and the doctor who is going to treat us is right to ask what information he should have, not the doctor, who is sitting in his office and says he will get it, but not that. It can't work like this. Privacy is, as I said, protected by the fact that the patient is to give his explicit consent. So it can't give you any worse privacy. I look forward to getting better, to getting a simpler and more transparent system, to getting better flow of information. I also have a great deal of respect for those who have a different view from me regarding what has to do with the matter itself. I respect it. But I think you should also try to respect the other side from that edge. Because it's not right that we, who have the vision we have, try to tear down privacy, that everything should lie and float open in hospital wards. No, I am convinced that what we are going to adopt today is going to strengthen privacy and bring about more structured patient records, which in the long term will also make it easier to build a system of internal records. Then we move on, and I hope that this is done in a proper way. And then it's also important that we have full control of what has access to do, that we have control of, checkpoint and overview of exactly what has to do with the way these data is processed in hospitals and elsewhere. One thing that has surprised me, however, is – as the case-rapporteur also said – that within a working group in a medical office, you are more liberal. I want to challenge the Left, when they're going up and take the word afterwards, at the following: if 25 doctors go together in one health centre, you have one umbrella, one owner's organization, on top. Then you're part of a work community. That is, all of these, each of them fixed, are actually legal units of your own, but because you're part of a working community, all of these doctors are going to have access to all of the records in that medical office. Does Left mean it when we talk about privacy? After all, everything is open and free, without the patient himself having to give his consent that it should be. In any case, I have not read this with open journals in the posts of the representative of Kongshaug in the Romsdals Budstikke. I look forward to the representative from the Left saying whether this is the Left's view on privacy, because here you put everything open to all of these doctors. Even in the situations where family members choose doctors from the same clinic, there may be people who don't want everyone in the family to know everything that happens to you. But there it's okay that everything should lie and float.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1237	First, I would like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office for a thorough work on the matter. We believe there is a great deal of respect for the fact that the representative Ballo does not allow himself to be dictated on important questions of principle, but actually fights for what he thinks is right. The political debate is becoming both richer and more credible. The Health and Welfare Committee recognises the need for better communication across healthcare establishments in order to ensure better and more effective treatment of patients. There is a consensus that privacy needs to be safeguarded. The disagreement is about how to balance these considerations. Like the rapporteur and the minority of the Committee, the right-wing party considers that the Government's proposal does not provide sufficient safeguards for privacy. This is a view that we share with many other significant consultative bodies, such as trade unions, patient associations and the authorities’ own advisory bodies. For the Right, respect for individual integrity and the right to privacy is a fundamental value. Health information is in its nature very sensitive and private information. Therefore, privacy considerations are particularly important in this context. I record that the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the Advance Party believe that the obligation of professional secrecy provides sufficient protection for sensitive information. I believe this is a naive attitude to the matter. We know that there are already significant challenges to health information being misused and diverted. In recent years, there have been many media reports related to snooping in patient records in several hospitals. I would like to mention a concrete example from Health Bergen, where the Health and Data Protection Authority jointly issued a very critical report, pointing to several serious errors and deficiencies. It was noted that the electronic patient records are not properly protected from the transparency of employees who do not have a legitimate need for the information. It was noted that the system of back-testing of who has opted out of a patient record is not sufficient and cannot replace a pre-restriction of access. In other words, the activity limits represent an important external limit for the exchange of private health information. Media reports have also shown that for the first time children are told about the serious illness of their parents by other children in the schoolyard, because health professionals have become aware of this and have communicated it to their children, who again confront the patient’s relatives. A specific case that we have become familiar with in recent days shows that health professionals in some ethnic environments systematically sneeze in patient records to exercise social control over young girls in this environment. They investigate whether the girls use contraception, have committed abortion, etc., and pass it on to others. This should be a thought for those who believe that all public servants only want us well, and that it is only for your own safety that the older sister sees you. These issues show how vulnerable we are to the fact that sensitive information about us is going to go astray. It illustrates the considerable power of possessing health information about other people and the importance of public authorities protecting this information. It also shows that the more people who have access to the information, the more vulnerable we are to the fact that the information about us can be misused. Some claim that the new information technology will solve these problems, including: through the ability to log who opens the journals. But it goes without saying that it's impossible to check thousands of records and health professionals in the major hospitals. The risk of snoring is in practice very low. This is also about the basic trust that we all depend on having health care. When the Government points out that lack of information can cost lives, they should also note that lack of trust in health services threatens life and health. We are aware that a permanent resident feels compelled to warn the patient to confide in him about health issues, because this information may flow to other public authorities and be used against the patient. If patients fear privacy, we may risk never receiving the information they are now seeking to exchange. When government parties now provide for a significant extension of access to cross-border exchanges of health information, the risk of data breach increases significantly. The fact that large groups of health professionals have access to journal information is in itself a problem, because it weakens the confidentiality that the patient is entitled to. We record that government parties believe that the future technology will ensure that only relevant information will be made available to health professionals other than those entrusted with the information. However, it is a fact that this cannot be achieved with today’s record-keeping technology and practice. This raises the question of why the Government is so eager to adopt a law that is not adapted to today's reality, but requires technological developments that may be realistic once in the future. In the meantime, the regulatory remedies adopted by the majority may lead to almost free flow of private health information on very many individuals, between health professionals and across establishments. From the Right, we believe that future exchanges of patient information across businesses should be anchored in a core journal, where only vital information about the patient is stored. This will ensure that the necessary information is made available to health professionals who need it. At the same time, this will ensure that information for which confidentiality is sought is not made available to anyone other than the one to whom it is entrusted. On the part of the majority, it is stated that electronic records can contribute to greater security than traditional paper records. Yeah, that's right. However, there is also a significant risk of electronic exchange of information, which has been painfully experienced by US health authorities in this spring. In May, the closed health care website for prescriptions in the country of Virginia was confiscated for all information. When the health professionals tried to log into the system, they were told: ‘Right now there are 8,257,378 patient records and a total of 35,548,087 prescriptions in my possession. I've also created an encrypted backup and deleted the original one. [[...]] For 10 million dollars I will gladly send the password». The right has addressed the issues related to the respect of professional secrecy with the Minister of Health through interviews, questions and proposals throughout this majority period. On the other hand, the government has gone many miles in the wrong direction in terms of weakening privacy. They refused to agree to the external encryption of the new health registry, although this would provide a safer management of the most comprehensive register of the medical history of individuals. In the present case, the majority doubted that the proposed solution is good enough, despite the substantial objections raised by the Health Authority, the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, the Disability Association, the Disability Association, the Norwegian Psychological Association, the Data Protection Agency and several other bodies with significant competence and insight into the matter. The minor adjustments made through the work of the Committee do not correct the basic weakness of the proposal by providing for wide-ranging facilities for the exchange of sensitive patient information between health professionals and across business boundaries. The assumptions underlying the possibility of limiting exchanges to structured and relevant information are not present. Although an explicit consent from a patient is required, many will still feel compelled to provide the powers requested by the healthcare system. In meeting the big health care system, we can all feel small. The paradox is that the lack of response by the majority can lead to a further delay in electronic interaction in healthcare, because there is no ability to find policy solutions that have a broad political base. From the Right, we cannot agree that the privacy of individuals is violated and disregarded for the effectiveness of the healthcare system. It is only when data protection is ensured in a more reassuring way that we can realise our common desire for information exchange in healthcare. And then finally, I'm going to deal with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1284	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1287	This matter is very important for each of the country's inhabitants. At the same time, there is one thing where there is a great deal of disagreement among different groups in society. The medical association sees this matter in the context of a number of legislative changes in recent years, which they say together have led to a dilution of the obligation of professional secrecy. In addition, the Medical Association, like other heavy agencies, points out that privacy considerations have had to give way throughout for the good purposes of individual measures in recent years. They also refer to the present proposal as the most relevant to date, both in terms of professional secrecy and privacy. These are very strong and alarming statements from one of the large and heavy employee organisations. It is quite interesting to read the purpose of the legislative changes, which are: ‘To remove regulatory barriers to the effective and safe communication of health information in healthcare while respecting the patient’s right to confidentiality and protection of privacy.’;» When so many consultation bodies find that the consequences of the proposed changes are anything but safe communication or protection of privacy, it is worrying, from my point of view. Of course, the Christian People's Party is a supporter of the use of electronic patient records and also of better interaction between different businesses, but we believe that the Government's proposal does not have the right balance between the need for information flow and the need for privacy. The fact that the majority of the committee has done a few things is not, in my view, changing this. One example is the majority proposal that access to health data in treatment-oriented health records across establishments can only be provided with the express consent of the data subject. In the next phase, exceptions to the consent rule are made. The prerequisites for secure electronic information exchange are not in place either. Therefore, we feel that this is not good enough either, when the assumptions cannot be implemented until later. Finally, I would like to refer to another proposal that the Committee has been discussing these days, the Left's proposal on the suspension of the Privacy Commission, the establishment of the core file and the protection of sensitive health information. This proposal fully supports the Christian People's Party. We believe that this proposal is a better, safer and adequate alternative to the Government's proposals in this matter. We want to create a core journal, as stated in Left Document No. Eight proposals, which we're going to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1307	The issue we are now dealing with has aroused strong feelings, and there has been no lack of debate that has shaped the treatment, either in the committee or in the public space. Many strong claims have been raised. The Committee's attitude reflects the debate that has taken place. The centre party has been involved in promoting several amendments in order to achieve the best possible and safe and safe law. A new law itself cannot save lives or ensure a better offer for the individual patient. However, the aim of the law is to provide better and safer patient treatment by facilitating the safe exchange of information across businesses. What has disturbed us in this matter is whether in our efforts to ensure interaction with the patient's best interests, privacy weakens in such a way that the integrity of the individual is affected. It is this issue that has created debate, sometimes heated up debate. In any heated debate, peak formulations may go so far that the debate between them is more confusing than clarifying. The debate on this matter has sometimes given the impression that anyone who works in the healthcare system, whether it is like a doctor or a cook, should be able to go in and apply in your journal. The kind of conditions that have been described in some media, I think, have contributed to creating an unnecessary concern about the matter. Of course, it's not like the entire hospital staff can go in and search your or others' records. There should be strict access control, and everyone with access should be able to log so that you, as a patient, can see who has been and seen in the record. As a relative, I have seen how much information needs to be exchanged in order to give the individual patient a safe and quality best offer. I have felt the concern – as a relative – about all the information that has actually been exchanged on the road through the health care system, and what has happened afterwards in relation to sampling, etc. Has everything come where it's supposed to? I think there are few who disagree that it is absolutely essential in many patient processes – not least in view of the fact that the patient himself has to feel secure – that the necessary information emerges. In addition, it is essential that the patient feels confident that all information he or she provides is treated strictly confidential so that it does not deviate. It is this balance between the necessary information exchange and the protection of the individual's privacy that we must strive to find, and which I believe we have found in this matter. In all cases where information is listed, either on paper or digitally, there is a risk that the information will be balanced. We must have systems and procedures – whether on paper or digital – that allow us to have very strict access control, that there are strict back-testing, and that individual patients themselves must be able to consent to the exchange of information. The fact that with this amendment, we open the way for patient information to be collected continuously across businesses in the individual case, once the patient has agreed to it, offers great opportunities. And the development of healthcare — with its complexity — has resulted in a greater need for the exchange of privacy-related personal data across businesses. This is information that may be essential for the treatment of the individual patient. Through the examination in the committee and here in Odelstinget, we believe that we have been able to find the right balance between ensuring the integrity and privacy of individuals and the need for the exchange of confidentiality-related information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1324	I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done in the committee and not least for the work he has done here today. The government's bill on access to patient records across healthcare professionals is, in the Left's view, strongly integrity-affecting and potentially contrary to human rights. We are strongly responding to the bill. The same thing happens, as we've heard, the Health Authority, the Data Protection Agency, the Medical Association and the FFO – and that's not what I've listed here. That is why we have an alternative proposal, as also mentioned by the representative, Mr Davøy, which will make all electronic communications easier, but without giving a blank authorisation to provide our most private information. It's the left's definite impression that parts of the Workers' Party and the red-green government believe that privacy is trivial, and that there are always other concerns that are more important. In the left we have the impression that the hold is that one has to break some eggs to make omelet. Privacy and our personal history are what makes us the human beings we are. And many have received messages – including us. A tough lady I know has characterized it this way: To know that many have access to my most private information can be compared to standing in the square with the pants down and tie for the eye. The dissemination of private health information enhances the sense of being a client, and that there are others who take over one's own life. This is a clientization of human beings that we strongly distance ourselves from. The left wants more electronic communication in healthcare, but there is no need for health workers to know everything. No one should make us believe that there will be better patient treatment and less mistreatment if only everything is available. A doctor doesn't sit down in an emergency and read 20 pages of the patient's journal when it says it's minutes. And the ministry itself has described that it is in planned operations that access to patient information is necessary. Therefore, the argument that it is necessary to save lives falls on its own primacy. The proposal of the Progress Party with the Government is poor, it is undemocratic, and for us it is incomprehensible that it should be put in place before the security systems to control it are in place. Patient journals are fresher, especially for patients with mental disorders. Therefore, it becomes incomprehensible that someone wants access to the entire journal. What should they do with old data from 20 years back in time? Electronic communication does not eliminate misdiagnosis, mistreatment and strange interpretations or mismedication; however, it can make people afraid to talk to health professionals – and increases the chance that the neighbor and other unaccompanied people will know things that they want to keep private. It's not been long since a study on Ahus revealed that adding there would be treated elsewhere because they didn't like snooping. Then it's argued that logging should solve this problem. Left: simply doesn't trust it. We have actually done a test where we have asked for access to a patient record to see how many people are listed in the log. And in just two or three days, there are so many pages with names that it's completely impossible to decide whether this is just a lookup or not. In the large hospitals, a person may be responsible for checking that there is no snooping – it goes without saying that this is to believe in Christmas. Finally, I want to take a little round in relation to the post for Nesvik. The representative Nesvik himself called for a sober debate, and then I thought he himself should go for it, as a good example. Because what's the essence of the proposal we're supporting, and what Nesvik's talking about, is a medical community where it's the substitute for our own determination. So it's not about everyone's availability. Otherwise, next week we will have a debate on the core journal – it is a proposal for a representative that we have before us – and then we will be able to re-examine the thread from this debate and probably get a useful debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1350	I would like to begin by saying that I have great respect for the debate we have today. I think I told the committee the last time we met – it was at dinner in the Parkwegen – that what was exciting about being a health minister, among other things. was listening to interesting health policy debates in the main hall. I have very much respect for the issue being discussed. I just want to first illustrate it with a quote from a chronicle that I read in the newspaper today, written by Endre Sandvik, who is the director of the Lawyer Act in Oslo, and Jon Ørstadvik, who is a medical consultant at the Legevakt in Oslo, the largest medical doctor in Norway. They say, «As a medical officer in Oslo and medical counsellor in the same place, we welcome the law! Today, the medical supply to the population suffers from a square law. Health professionals make poor decisions because they lack information and it affects patients.’ On the other hand – as many speakers have underlined today – there have been serious comments and consultation opinions from, for example, the EU Member States. The Data Protection Authority and the Health Authority in this case. It shows that we are now moving in a landscape where we are making a law that, in my opinion, it is quite obvious that those who know where the shoe is printing, among other things. in Norway’s largest medical care centre, is very much in favour. They think it's very good for patients. Today's law is against patients. On the other hand, there is no doubt that reaching, for example: Health oversight identifies privacy challenges, it shall be taken seriously. Both are important. From that point of view, I would say that the aim of this bill is to remove regulatory barriers to effective and safe communication of patient information in healthcare. The legislative proposal does not entail changes to the rules on professional secrecy – they will be the same as before. The Health Register Act distinguishes between communication of health information between health professionals in an establishment and between establishments. This distinction in legislation is not always appropriate, nor is it necessary to comply with the obligation of professional secrecy. Developments in the health sector give rise to new methods of investigation and treatment and increase specialisation. The patient is often treated by several types of health professionals and several different specialists, often linked to different activities. Commonly, everyone needs access to patient data. Patients must be able to expect, to a greater extent than at present, that health information is available to the healthcare institution or doctor to treat them. As far as possible, patients shall refrain from telling the entire medical history whenever they receive health care from a doctor or a health institution that does not already know the patient’s history. In my view, it does not benefit the patient or the privacy that organisational boundaries determine how healthcare professionals can be given access to the necessary and relevant information about the patient. I believe that there is a need for health information and the rules on professional secrecy that must be essential for health professionals to have access to health information. Let me illustrate this with an example, of which it has been similar in the debate from before: The National Hospital Health Services, Aker University Hospital Health Services and Ullevål University Hospital Health Services have been reorganized to Oslo University Hospital Health Services from 1 January 2009. The reorganisation allowed access, within the framework of the Health Register Act, to relevant and necessary information for the purposes of patient treatment across the three Oslo hospitals. Prior to the reorganisation on 1 January 2009, access to health information across the three establishments could not be provided because there were three different establishments — three different health establishments. The information had then to be sent by electronic means or by electronic means. This is the number of items in the record. I think it is important to discuss very thoroughly how information should flow between Ullevål, Aker and the Rikshospitalet. It's important. However, whether they are three health businesses or one health business is not essential for the proper functioning of the information exchange. As long as you relate the distinction to the organisation and not to the patient's needs and how the exchange takes place, I think you get the wrong perspective. I think it's a very important piece of the law change we're now doing, that you don't focus on whether or not the exchange takes place from Lovisenberg Hospital to Ullevål, with one set of rules, while if the exchange takes place from Ullevål to the Rikshospital, it's another set of rules. I think it's going to be a wrong angle of incidence. The proposed legislative changes shall contribute to ensuring that healthcare professionals have access to relevant and necessary health information when needed to treat the patient. It is essential to stress that the proposal does not give health professionals access to more information than is possible under current rules. That is the way to access the information, which is proposed to be amended. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee proposes a tightening of the legal text which requires the patient to have explicit consent in the case of electronic access to health information across businesses. It is also a requirement that there should be a regulatory body to derogate from the requirement of express consent. I have no objection to it. The legislation requires that the information is only available to healthcare professionals who need it properly in the context of patient treatment. This means that access to patient information across businesses will require effective security systems, including access control, to ensure confidentiality and patient confidentiality. I support the Committee's proposal to include in the law that a request for access to health information in another activity can only cover one patient at a time. I also agree to legislate the patient's right of access to the log. Access to health information across legal entities in the health sector will not be permitted unless the security of information is satisfactory and the obligation of professional secrecy is respected. I am concerned about ensuring a good privacy. Access to health information is essential for making good decisions and for providing the patient with professionally sound health care. We all agree on that. We all agree that information should be exchanged, and what we all focus on is that it should be done safely. It is my opinion that the legislative changes will be a good tool and a step in the right direction to use ICT in providing healthcare for the benefit of the patient, while respecting the confidentiality and integrity of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1398	The Government points out that a prerequisite for cross-border exchanges is established electronic solutions that ensure that only structured and relevant information about the patient can be exchanged between the companies. It is clear that this cannot be done with today’s system and current reporting practices. Then my question is, what is the reason why the Government is so concerned about introducing legislation based on non-existent assumptions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1403	I think the representative Tegen had a good reason for that in his post, and I would like to repeat it. It is quite clear that there must be both technological development and the development of software. The question is: what standard and what legislation should be taken into account? We'll now get that clarified by law and regulation. These requirements must be met. Machine manufacturers and software manufacturers need to know. If you come up with technological solutions that satisfy the requirements, they can be used. If you don't come up with technological solutions that satisfy the requirements, it won't be implemented. The alternative I think is interesting to philosophize over. Let's imagine that the Stortinget had read that I had launched a major competition to develop cross-health access software, without this assembly first dealing with a code on how it should happen. I do not know whether it is parliamentary to say Baluba, President, but at least it would have been Baluba – rightly so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1412	I'm reacting a little to the post of the Council of State. It seems that the opposition – which does not agree with the Government and government parties – disagrees with this with good communication and safe exchange. Of course we are not. Many of the remarks and counter-representations made against the government’s bill have come because many of the assumptions – including the representative Sjøli – are not in place. Much shall be fixed in retrospect. When this law can be enforced, we don't know – if all the prerequisites are to be put in place in advance. And that's nodding the government council for them to go. At the same time, the Government says that the law will be implemented immediately. What does that mean when we know that it will take many years before the uniform journal systems are in place? What's so urgent? Why don't you want to get back to Storting when these assumptions are in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1419	The answer to that is the same as I gave to the representative Sjéli: The law comes into force. Then the industry that is going to develop the technological and software solutions, knows what needs to be satisfied. But you can't use the system until the law's requirements are met. The alternative would be to say, find something, and we'll see what the law is like! It would be a very difficult form of communication to those who have to meet these requirements. The Christian People's Party thinks it should be like this, the Labour Party thinks it should be like this – you have to invest a few hundred million and create a software, and then we'll see if we can make a law that makes it possible to put it into practice. If we want this, we have to establish a code of what the systems have to satisfy in order for us to say yes or no to put them into use. We are now laying down that legislation, first by making the law and then the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1428	It has been argued that cross-access is necessary to save lives. The representative, Dag Ole Tegen, has also said that today. Does the council believe that a doctor sits down and reads 20 pages of patient information in an emergency? Why do you not want to develop already existing systems, with message exchange, as multiple instances, for example? The General Medical Association, has pointed out, as a privacy breaching and bad system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1433	I think the best answer I can give on that question is to repeat what I started my post with, that I don't have to believe anything about whether or not people who work in emergency situations within the healthcare community think this is an important law or not. I started my post by quoting what the director and the medical counsellor of the Lawyer Act in Oslo thinks about the law. You can blame them for a lot of things, but I don't think you can blame them for not working in acute, medical, challenging situations. They welcome the law. They think it's important, and they say, ‘Today, the medical supply to the population is subject to a square law. Health professionals make poor decisions because they lack information and it affects patients.’ There is an opinion from someone who is going to use this law operationally in the situation described by the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1443	Governments have used several times as an example of artificial activity limits, because when one goes from having many smaller activities to having one large, the Council of State sees that it is quite natural to have one patient journal system instead of several. I mentioned an example earlier from St. Olav's Hospital. There, the staff opposed the merging of the journals from the psychiatric department and the somatic department, because they thought it was completely unnecessary for the somatic department to have access to psychiatric information. But here the Council of State argues – if I have understood him correctly – as if it is unproblematic, not just that psychiatry information at Ullevål Hospital becomes available to the entire hospital, but that the entire patient journal system at Ullevål Hospital becomes available at Aker University Hospital and at the Rikshospitale. Does the Council not see that many who have provided highly sensitive information at one unit have initially had no idea that that information should reach others, and that it should actually be subject to an assessment before bringing together that type of patient journal system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1452	That's why it's necessary to change the law of the day. Today's law, of which the representative Ballo is a strong defender, creates this situation at Oslo University Hospital. There is a focus on the activities and not on how health professionals should be able to access information. This is the misunderstanding. So you think with today's law it's just changing the business boundary, and then you get cross-border access. You think it creates privacy, while what we and the majority are in favour of does not create privacy. But that's the opposite of it. We need to regulate how health professionals should access information, what kind of security procedures should apply. It is the need to regulate it, not the organisation of the establishments. That's why we need this new law. You can't just reorganize yourself away from privacy interests, but that's what Ballo defends by voting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1459	One of the main arguments that has been used here has been that with this system you will have access to the entire patient record. It is in the form of a note that this is not the idea in the future, but it is precisely that we have to do something about the construction of the journals that are available today. My question to the Council of State is, of course, that when this law is passed, the Council of State will then take a rapid initiative, together with, among other things. The medical association – because it is the doctors who run these journals – cooperates on how this should be done in the future, so that the sensitive information that should not be provided in the context of asking for other things can be isolated, among other things. from Oslo's playguard? Will the Council of State take such an initiative, just to clarify some of these things, so that we are sure of this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1467	I think it's important to work closely with the professional community, both with the Medical Association and with the different professional environments, on what kind of information it's important to get the patient's consent to have access to, and on how to build a modular journal system that makes relevant information in place and where access is available. It's a combination of a privacy discussion and a professional discussion. Strict rules must be laid down for this, but they must not be stricter than is necessary. I have good faith that it will be possible to get to such good, professional discussions. However, both a computer solution and a professional review of how journals need to be built up in the future in order to meet the strict data protection requirements laid down here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1474	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1479	Data protection warns against the free flow of patient information. I want to share some of my own experiences with the opposite – no one floats at all. Cancer is scary – especially when the diagnosis hits someone you're happy with. From one day to the other, most of it is turned on its head. An active everyday life shifts across the board to the role of patient. There's chaos in feelings, fear, with too much time. As a relative you have to deal with your own fear, be there – supportive when needed – while the job still demands its own. You'll have less time than before. Predictability has a new meaning. The requirement for the health care system was: Get healthy, get as fast as possible! Every day without anything happening, the disease gives a little more supremacy – at least in your own head. The course of treatment was a step between fixed, local hospital and radium hospital. The only thing predictable was that the staf stick went into the ground in every exchange. It took time to get a diagnosis. Testing allowed to wait – longer than necessary. The first meeting with the Radium Hospital finally came. It was relief and fear at once. I took a break from work, and then came down: we were sent home! Pictures and test results were not available – come back in one week! Then he had to go alone. The switch between two hospitals never went well, not even when we ourselves demanded to have the X-rays in hand. Once it became acute – high fever and rapid hospitalisation locally. Finally, a tour candidate who did not believe that the patient had a cell poison two hours earlier came to the same hospital. She wanted to start over by making a diagnosis. Every time in a whole year, we got the same provocative question: Have you been here before? As a relative, you were completely swept out due to poor communication, test results and doctors who were never there until the agreed time. Our story ended well – despite the system, as the councils tend to say. We were two. What about those who are sick and alone, and who are even more vulnerable? As the leader of the first user selection at the Radium Hospital, I met many with the same experience. And the very first requirement we made as a user selection many years ago was electronic journal with access for anyone who treats the patient. And when the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left call it a threat to privacy, in violation of human rights and privacy, I wonder which world they are in – at least not in the patient's or in the relatives'. And when the General Medical Association asks what benefits the clinicians will have of electronic access to patient information, that's the wrong question. Better flow is at the best of the patient and the relatives, including the opportunities it provides for better management of the doctors’ working day and time use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1496	I want to present the SV’s big group’s views on this matter. The rules applicable to the availability and communication of health information raise important and difficult issues. On the one hand, we need legislation to ensure that the patient is not mistreated because the doctor does not have the necessary information. On the other hand, health information is very sensitive. We must therefore have legislation that ensures privacy. The use of electronic patient records is a step forward. But it also creates privacy challenges, because the possibility of disseminating information is increasing. Sensitive information can only be a keypress away. I would therefore like to stress that the rules on professional secrecy are in place. The obligation of professional secrecy to which health professionals are subject will not change. This, in my view, represents an important obstacle to the dissemination of health information. It is also prohibited to look for or use silent information if it is not justified by healthcare for the patient. The main obstacle to disseminating confidentiality-related information is that healthcare professionals comply with the obligation of professional secrecy. The changes we are making here today will significantly strengthen privacy. Everyone who logs into a log-in should be recorded. This means that the patient is given a legal right to have an overview of who has had access to health information about him/her, and thus also information about whether or not the patient is to be treated other than those who have read the record. I would like to stress that clear limits are to be set to allow access to records across businesses. Firstly, there must be an agreement to develop such information. Secondly, only information that is relevant and necessary to provide adequate and necessary health care can be sent between establishments. In addition, cross-border access cannot be opened until the establishment is able to comply with safety requirements, which will be regulated. These restrictions are important for the protection of privacy. Finally, I would like to mention an important amendment to the Health Register Act that has been made in connection with landfill treatment. A tightening has been made to introduce explicit consent requirements for electronic access to health information. For such consent to be valid, the patient must also have been informed of how to use the information. This is a change that strengthens the patient's rights. If the SV's representative in the Committee does not follow the other two government parties on all points, the SV's DG does so. We will vote in favour of all the majority proposals and against all the minority proposals. The SV's group is also involved in this matter behind the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1513	The reality that the representative Lise Christoffersen told of has been an important starting point for the Workers' Party in this matter. We know that every year there are between 2,000 and 3,000 people dying in health care in Norway due to mistreatment, and we know that this is about. 15 000 people who suffer permanent injuries. We know some of the reasons for that – these are the watertight bulkheads that prevent access to important information at the right time and in the right place. And we know that this leads to delays in treatment, or vital information does not come out. Modern access to the necessary health information in the records provides safe treatment for the patient and more security for the person to be treated. I think the vast majority of patients will agree. It also appears in the consultation rounds, where the large user organisations, which are major users of healthcare, agree with the Odelstinget’s decision today. Several have raised the criticism that has come against the bill, which has been marked by both misunderstandings and exaggerations. And it is not right that privacy is weakened, rather on the contrary. The truth about today's system is much more serious: the routines of patient records are very poor in many institutions. Norwegian health services have a major need to establish a basis for better interaction. Very many of those responsible for Health-Norway, both among general practitioners and among the leaders of the Norwegian health care system, support this. The chairperson of the Committee was concerned with several of the letters and e-mails that came to the Committee on that occasion, and I quote something: ‘Many of us, both clinicians, health managers and IT health managers, are now deeply concerned that we are not getting a law that we believe will provide higher patient safety because treatment can get quick access to up-to-date information...’ Further: ‘We also experience that the debate has marked health professionals as no better than to read the health information of their neighbours.’ These are people who are in the middle of acute situations out in everyday life. I just have to admit that I have more faith in them than in the Data Protection and Health Authority. And I'm very surprised at the old-fashioned attitude of the Medical Association in a matter that's so important to the patients. This position and these views are, moreover, exactly the same as the representative of Ballo leads to squares. I believe this is a great day for future patients. I am pleased with the setting available, sail if the representative Ballo has chosen not to support us. But as you know, a lone swallow doesn't make a summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1541	One of the things that really impresses me in this case is that arguments don't seem to make an impression. You hear representatives standing here saying that they don't believe what the Data Protection Authority says, and they don't believe what the State Health Authority says. I have registered that the majority have said that you don't need to have any concerns because you have supervisory authorities to take care of. But the next step is to say, to the same supervisory authorities, that there is no emphasis on what the supervisory authorities determine. As Gunn Olsen says here, health professionals are suspected of snooping in journals. It is not a question of suspicion, it is a question of data reviewed by the Data Protection Authority. In its report, the Data Protection Authority writes to the Committee at the hearing: ‘For example, a medium-sized hospital in the region of Health South-East has 1.4 million entries in its electronic patient records system per month. The large number of entries in the records makes it very resource-intensive, and almost impossible, to detect snoring in a systematic and efficient manner.» Everyone here wants it to be possible for patients to see who has been in the journal. On a question from Dagens Medisin, I have answered yes. Torunn Janbu, the president of the Medical Association, has also done the same thing, saying they're going to have to review the file to see how many people have been inside their journal systems just to check it out. But it is clear that if one then has a twenty, maybe a hundred, hits, it is not practicable to follow up every single case as a routine, it must be in case of a suspected breach. I think one of the most interesting things about data protection is how the different health care companies report as if there were no breach at all. Health Mid-Norway writes in his feedback that St. Olaf's Hospital has no cases, Health North-Møre and Romesdal have one case, Health Sunnmare has one case, and Health North-Trøndelag has one case. So the Data Protection Agency goes in and finds a bunch of fractures. This means that health businesses themselves are not particularly concerned with the problem, nor do they do much to reveal it. That's why I think it's also an element of naivety attached to the consultation we had, when you see that health business directors want a much faster exchange of data, but are so little concerned with privacy related to that data. It is not because the Medical Association has an immoderate view of electronic interaction that they warn against it, but it is because they have health professionals who daily see how privacy is undermined because of it. This is because you want to take care of patients' interests. In many other contexts, for example: When you talk about pay, it's almost as important to listen to it. In fact, it is important to listen to it here — but most importantly, it is to listen to the national supervisory authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1555	The Council of State justified in its submission the need for a change in the law that health businesses have already joined forces, and that we therefore need better regulation – as if there is a tightening up we are talking about in this matter. At best, I have to say that then the odelsting proposition is poorly formulated, and it's strange that it doesn't come out – as I've read or understood – that what we're talking about, maybe is a kind of tightening. In the proposition, it says, among other things. that there are both ‘technological and health reasons why new information systems and access to them should be considered in order to address health needs’. There is a need for greater flexibility, it goes on to say, ‘in the communication pattern and the exchange of information than the current legislation provides’. It even appears clear that the design of today’s legislation limits the use of technological possibilities to the full. I think in a way – at least so many of us have read it – that there is talk of a greater openness and not a restriction and tightening. If it is – why are so many large and heavy bodies that feel that this is not safe enough, not good enough for privacy? It was also said earlier today – it was the representative of the Progress Party – that the hearings from some of these heavy authorities were given on a different legal basis, that is, a draft that has now been amended. The proposition presented by the Government today is very different from the hearing note. That is possible, but in any case – and we have received input from several at the committee’s hearing – both the Medical Association and the Data Protection Agency were not at all reassured by the draft law that is on the board of the Government today. It might have been interesting to hear what the Council of State answered the following questions, or perhaps made an additional comment: In the light of what was said, it is that, for example, The many objections raised by the Health Directorate have been taken into account, and that the Health Directorate, and perhaps also the Health Authority, could have said that such a law is designed today – unlike the consultation note – we could have gone for it, because these are good things? It might have been interesting to know more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1564	I will go back a little bit to the representative Dag Ole Tegen, who in his post praises the Progress Party for a good and thorough work on this matter. The representative doesn't mention us others in the committee, there may have been good reason for that. But I think that we others who have had the word here today – case-speakers Olav Gunnar Ballo, Sonja Sjøli from Right and Laila Davøy from the Christian People's Party – are professionals who I also think have been very skilled and engaged in this work. For my part, I believe that I am here to say that I myself have been working in a hospital for 11 years as a director of the hospital. I mean, I know what we're talking about, and what's the real world out in hospitals. I also believe that the other representatives I call know, based on their background. What we have also mentioned is the core journal. Fortunately, we have a chance to talk about this next week in connection with a proposal from the Left. We may still be able to get a bunch of stuff behind what we're going to see. Otherwise, the ministry in this matter actually implies a restriction and structuring of the patient record, so that only one person should have access to the necessary information, as it is called. What we know is that the patient records that exist today in hospitals and otherwise in those who have patient records are not organized to do so. They're built in a completely different way. In my view, we have to admit, and it also has something to do with it. The Medical Association said it's a huge piece of work that needs to be done if we're to get them structured. The representative, Sonja Sjöli, mentioned some very difficult numbers, and I thought that they should remember when a person thinks about how long it will take for us to get structured journals in this country. I thought the Council of State could have provided a forecast of when these new laws could be applied. Otherwise, I must also say that I was a little surprised by the representative Gunn Olsen, who actually served mistrust of the Data Protection Authority. That one might disagree with a state oversight again and again, I didn't think it was so crazy, but what has happened partly to the Data Protection and Health Authority, is that they are being devalued time and time again. After all, it is serious if you have state supervision that is simply mistrusted in serious matters, not least when it comes to privacy, which is one of the most important things, at least for the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1575	In some people who have spoken here, it almost sounds as if they believe that the Right and Minority will keep the order of the day. It is, of course, with respect to report, just – it is not parliamentary to say hesitate, but I do so anyway. It sounds like we want the same thing as today. I think Lise Christoffersen had a strong story, and I can confirm that in many ways, with my many years as a health worker, it's like this. But it's a distortion almost to show that we want it as it is today. I believe that many of the problems that Christoffersen and many others who have had contact with the health care system have experienced, not only have to do with journals – it actually has to do with lack of professional follow-up, responsibility powdering and lack of good management in a department. From the Right, we believe that future exchanges of patient information across businesses should be anchored in a core journal, where only vital information about patients is stored. In this way, you will be able to meet the needs of others, for example: in an emergency situation. It will ensure that the necessary information is made available to health professionals when they need it. At the same time, it will ensure that information provided in confidentiality is not made available to persons other than those to whom it is entrusted. As others have noted, many consultation bodies have pointed out that the present legislative proposal is problematic in terms of professional secrecy. Following the assessment by the Health Inspectorate, the Ministry’s proposal opens up a much wider sharing of information in the health sector than the Ministry actually documents is necessary for the purpose of proper patient treatment. The supervision even raises questions as to whether the practices to be established can be implemented in line with the current rules on the professional secrecy of health professionals. The Ministry still categorically rejects the fact that the proposals are problematic for privacy reasons. And then I have to ask the State Council about the Health Authority, the Data Protection Agency, the Medical Association and large patient organisations, such as. The Joint Union of disabled persons is mistaken or has not understood this when they claim that the proposal does not respect the obligation of professional secrecy and weakens privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1586	I have, of course, also, as many others have expressed, respect for both views in this matter, both the majority and the minority. I have not heard or been told that someone has said here today that they do not believe in the hearing bodies. But of course you have to have the opportunity to reserve the right to support the hearing bodies you agree with, and not to support those you do not agree with. It's a matter of course. That is what everyone has done, whether the input of the Data Protection Agency is based on or based on the answers we get from the Department, the hearing opinions of patient organisations, or the recordings that have come from health regions and others. To the representative Ludvigsen: Of course I am not in doubt that the minority has done a thorough job. That doesn't mean I agree. That's two different things. Ludvigsen said earlier here, I think it was in the line change, that the government gives blank authorization for the exchange of information. That's what we don't do. We make a requirement for consent and introduce a consent-based solution. If that is a blank authorisation, it will mean that even those who have informed consent will not be able to exchange the information they wish to be communicated. Then there was the question of whether you're in doubt that this saves life. I don't think there's anyone in the minority other than Gunvald Ludvigsen who has asked questions about whether good communication of patient information gives better patient treatment and saves lives, because if you really don't think it does, there's no need to go into a messaging system, as the minority does. Everyone agrees on the need for communication of patient information in a good and safe way, but then the model is divided. But there won't be 20 pages, just because you have to be able to structure it and get access to what's relevant. That's why we're going to put a nuclear record in place. I would like to say that I do not share the view that the government parties are not engaged in creating a broad majority for the kind of issues that affect privacy. I'll show you, for example. to the Health Research Act, which we dealt with very thoroughly over a longer period last spring, where the Committee finally ended up unanimously on almost all paragraphs. It was an exception of four, I think. I guess today there will be a majority of between two-thirds and three-quarters, and there is a majority that is larger than what you need to adopt constitutional changes, for example. Nor is it the case that government parties stand alone in the decision being taken. I believe that we have had to make every effort to meet the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1601	Just a few comments from my side – first to the question: What do the Health Directorate and the Health Inspectorate think about the law, as it is now available? It is important to stress that this law has been substantially strengthened and amended by Odelstinget, so that if the committee has not sent it to the Health Authority and the Health Directorate, we do not have an opinion from them on the law that is now being passed. I would like to stress that it is clear that the opinions of the Health Directorate, the Health Authority and the Data Protection Authority are being taken seriously. We put a lot of emphasis on them, but that's not the way to cancel the department and the Stortinget and the Odelstinget. The rule is not that if the Data Protection Authority and the Health Authority and the Health Directorate consider anything, the case does not come to popular treatment. It's called official management. That's why we have this hall, to make an overall assessment based on a set of advice. I also think that I should have taken on a lot of things to find where both the representative Davøy, the representative Sjøli and the representative Ballo disagreed with recommendations from e.g. The Health Directorate. I don't think that would have been a very demanding operation. Of course, they have full rights to that. Those opinions should therefore be taken seriously, but it is this hall, democracy, that determines – not the office. I would also like to refer to this report from the Data Protection Authority, which shows challenges related to how many have been included in the records, logging related to it and the possibility of follow-up on it. It has little to do with this law change. It has to do with the law we have, and respect for it. I take it very seriously, and that is why I think I am setting very strong governance requirements for regional health companies, for example. in improving log systems, improving access control, ensuring less access — have good rules on it — and ensuring a good follow-up of who has been in the records. I welcome with pleasure what we had planned to impose, namely that the patient should have access to the log. I think it's okay that we reinforce it by including it in the legal text. With all possible respect for each other’s motives – I have absolutely – my judgements and the government’s assessments have differed from what the minority has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1618	The importance of privacy needs to be measured very often against other considerations. I noticed that Gunn Olsen said that a simple swallow does not make any difference. But what has been important to me is to look at how public authorities have over time dealt with privacy and how the supervisory authorities have assessed privacy over time. Then I think about both the Swedish Data Protection Agency and the State Health Authority. But what I'm also thinking about is the public investigation that came this year: Individual and privacy – Privacy in the digital society. I want to say that what the minority has consistently done is to take over the objections that a wide-ranging data protection committee has made, and that we have included in the setting. It's not to be a lonely swallow – it's actually taking on strong signals from someone who's set to figure it out. When the Government prioritizes the amendment of this law, which I still regard as a liberalisation of privacy, there is a way of prioritizing measures other than privacy. What the government could have done was, of course, to give priority to the fact that this public investigation was speeding up treatment in the Stortinget, precisely to strengthen privacy. I think it's a bit cheap rhetoric to assume that today's system is not working well, and to present it as if we were defending that today's system will continue to function poorly. It's totally illogical! What the Data Protection Commission says in its setting, and as I also quoted earlier, is that the problems are reinforced by making data externally available when it can be demonstrated in advance that it is not possible to handle it internally in terms of privacy. What the Data Protection Authority has in its report is that it will be the weakest link in the chain that will then determine how well data protection is ensured, because access to information from another business and lack of good practice in the internal business will not help if this is well managed in the business that has provided the data. Of course, it'll be particularly worrying if the unit from which data is derived, not itself, based on strict criteria, decides what to forward. In addition — and several have pointed out — there is an extremely resource-intensive system to be set up. I think this is a good proposal from the Left, namely that you can use a patient card and have a core journal, and it appears to be technically much simpler. It also solves the problem if those who come to the hospital have such a patient card in their wallet. There you have the core information available at once, instead of using very complex IT solutions – something the industry is obviously interested in, because it can make money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1631	I like lone swallows too, I, but what I said, was that it's going to be 'no summer' of it. Then to the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen, who thought I was showing ‘minuscules to the Data Protection Authority’. It's not that if you have more trust than anyone else, it's a mistrust of the Data Protection Authority. But the department that I have now worked closely within the eight years I have been in the Health Committee, I have great confidence. I also have that for my own government. In this context, I have to say that I have more confidence in those who are in an emergency treatment situation, and who in their practical work see that this is a great need. It is true, as the committee's chairman had in the past, and which was actually now confirmed by the Council of State, that the consultation round was based on some other basis than what the result actually shows. That's right. It is possible that this is the case both for the Data Protection Authority and for the Health Authority, and that it may be mitigating, but in the case of the Medical Association, I have a certain impression that they have been well and well informed throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1640	I really only have a small response to the representative, Sonja Sjøli, who thought I was distorting the views of the minority. All I did was quote from the setting on page 2, and it's the minority itself that has characterized the government's proposal as being 'in conflict with human rights' etc. Furthermore, Sonja Sjøli said that as a former employee of these systems, she recognized my history. Yes, it is unfortunately not unique, and I fully agree with her that this is also about lack of professional follow-up and lack of good management in and between hospitals. But what the Radium Hospital user selection – the time I was there – had as its clear message was that electronic processing and dissemination of images, samples, etc. between hospitals is actually a completely necessary management tool for the good manager of a hospital, in order to obtain good patient logistics in and between hospitals, and, as I also mentioned in my post, to improve the management of the time use of doctors. It may be bad to say that, but there must be fewer excuses to meet unprepared for an hour, or to meet when the patient arrives. It's not always the doctors' own fault, but it's about taking advantage of medical competence in an effective way, and it's also about the doctors having to let the patient control his everyday life. The possibilities for doing so are improved when you have a more effective exchange of information about the patient. We have also been very clear that good management, as a result of electronic control tools, will be an advantage for patients in the form of shorter waiting time before diagnosis, shorter waiting time for tests and results, on treatment, at hour during treatment, in a new hour – perhaps especially when several hospitals are involved – inside a hospital when the patient has an hour, because there are often several departments walking between them. We have also been clear that electronic information is a prerequisite for making individual treatment plans, where greater demands can be made on all involved. I am also convinced that what we are talking about today is a prerequisite for the success of the Council of States' cooperation reform. You can't do it without having this tool available. And finally, as far as the representative Ludvigsen is concerned, he said he knew what he was talking about, because he had a history as a hospital director. As a user and a relative, I also feel like I've got things to do with what I'm talking about, but maybe with a slightly different angle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1655	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has had the word twice and now gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1658	To Lise Christoffersen I would say that at my age I also have relatives, so I know that page very well. But what I was going to say was that privacy is not out of the question. Especially when you connect privacy and health, it becomes difficult in the public space as well. I think when we talk about IT systems that are going to talk, it might be easier to understand a ticket system. We have one in our area called Flexus – a system across Oslo and Akershus. Everyone knows well the description of it – today we say it was a scandal. That's the only word for it. Otherwise, of course, I will tell everyone who is in favour of this law that this is the lighthouse of good intentions. But I also want to say, as my experience is, that the Labour Party always puts the system ahead of the individual human being. I believe that the debate here has shown that there is a lack of understanding of the importance of privacy for the individual, the free person.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1667	I want to re-examine what I raised in the question to the Council of State. I don't think the Council of State gave a good answer, because he made it as if the minority, through its approach, were making it possible for what has happened in the area of Oslo University Hospital, namely that journals intended for one enterprise – and quite limited – are now made available to all establishments that do not have that kind of restriction. I must say that when I heard that, I was very surprised. If I tried to think of something completely theoretical and sought, namely that I was the Council of State myself, I would of course never have allowed anything like that. It also makes the difference in Bjarne Håkon Hansen's approach in terms of privacy and the approach that I have. I think that if I had been admitted to one of those hospitals, at one of those departments, and talked to some of those staff, I would initially have thought that that information would be there. But what has been done now is to facilitate the dissemination of this information to all the hospitals in the Oslo area, without me being asked as a patient, and without having had any political discussion about it. It's not my responsibility. It is, of course, the responsibility of the Council of State — including to adopt such an approach as is the case if the opposition wants that kind of development. I would have liked to have welcomed a bill from the Council of State that had prevented this from happening – but instead he let it happen. That's what I'm asking myself: how much can you assume that what you say is supposed to be the assumption at the bottom – with a law to be introduced quickly – is going to be in place before you start these changes? The data controller had a heading for an article: in 150 along a herb path. That's a little bit of the argument here, as if you were going to argue to set the speed limit to 150 on a motorway because you have to, otherwise no one will submit tenders to build such a road. All of us who are in this room know that that's not right. That's the kind of argument called substituting argument. It's because you want this arrangement, you want to organize it relatively quickly. It has been quite striking how the IT companies with commercial interests in this matter have been on us, both at the hearing and afterwards, to get this organized so that it should be done quickly. It has also been striking how health businesses, with the model of health enterprises, have directors pushing for this. At the same time, I think it is striking how the general employees of the same companies, including those who are data controllers, warn about exactly the same thing. That's why it's a good idea to listen to those voices and be slow about moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1676	What makes me extend the debate is that this must be a misunderstanding. Of course, it is not that when Oslo University Hospital was established, we got a situation where all health professionals had access to all the records. It's controlled. There are rules for who should be able to go into journals, including at Oslo University Hospital – actually quite strict rules. The point is that this is what is important — not whether or not the information is disseminated between two establishments, but that there are good rules as to what kind of information is disseminated. That's what we have to legislate. My point is just to illustrate that focusing on business boundaries does not provide good privacy. It's focusing on privacy, which provides good privacy. It is illustrated by the dramatic fact that the patients in Oslo were not that Aker Hospital and the Rikshospitalet became one hospital, the dramatic importance for the patients in Oslo is that the hospital has good privacy procedures. Therefore, I believe that focusing on the organisation boundaries will be a mistake. The focus must be on good health care practices for the type of patient information to be exchanged and how to exchange it for the benefit of the patient. I believe that when you say here that part of the solution is to focus on the organisational boundaries, and not on the organisation of how patient information is disseminated, you have a wrong focus. It's the exact same reasoning that applies within a large firm. It shows that focusing on how the rules are for access to patient information is important, not whether you have an office community or not. That's where we share the reasoning. When you hang on to business boundaries, it becomes a mistake – you have to hang on to privacy. That's where it's important to be hung.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1687	Let me start with something basic: I think that new technology is going to bring us both better health and better life. I think there's a lot of opportunities in that area to make life better. But if we become headless politicians who don't set a framework for technology, it can make life worse. The council says that if you just have good rules, everything's fine. We see it over and over again that it doesn't, because it's quite often – in relation to how sensitive this is – that you see violations of these rules. The point is that the more people get access, the more enforcement is needed, the more restrictions are needed, and the more important it is that more information is transferred to more people, in fact, within strict limits. The Data Protection Authority has carried out some inspections in this area, including: two health care services. Those inspections showed that not only nurses and caregivers, who through their education have learned to deal with sensitive information, but also kitchen staff have full access, because it is a good idea to know what people are allergic to, and who are diabetics. But do you have to know everything? Do you need full access – sail if you want to know what people should eat? Of all the privacy issues we've had in this period -- which has gone largely wrong in this room -- this is the one that happens most to me in the heart, and is most outrageous, because here's the thing about using new technology, using new opportunities to help people, but making as many traps on the way as possible. If you open up kitchen staff to have access – it's not that they have lower moral standards than others – it has something to do with you actually giving access to people who don't have training to relate to that kind of information. I believe that new technology offers new opportunities, but we're still folding. In the field of health, we have now awakened every single time in the interests of good intentions, and have not taken the job of finding the good solutions to what it is important for. There's some information I think it's important that people around me have. It's important that they know that I have penicillin allergy. If I crash by car in North Norway and Ballo are the nearest doctor, it is important that he should be able to look up and find out that I have penicillin allergy – but he does not need to know everything about me. He doesn't have to know what kind of information I gave my doctor when I was 17, or what problems I've had in other contexts. Here, the Council of State should have taken the time to create a system that is appropriate and that does not open up for everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1700	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1703	As far as the debate is concerned, I really want to just quote a little input I have received by e-mail from a person, who in many ways says what I want to end with: ‘There is no need to adopt new legislative changes that allow for the sharing of information across legal entities, until solutions are demonstrated to safeguard privacy within the same legal entity.’ This is really wise, because we have a lot of comments from the Swedish Data Protection Agency to several hospitals that we don't know how to handle. Things take a lot longer than we think, both in regional health companies and in terms of what the software industry promises. My concern is to be led was. Because quick turns here can actually have consequences for individuals, and we all want to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1715	I really didn't intend to take the word. But then it happens at the end of the debate that representatives come into the Chamber to share their experiences with us, how these things are to be done – and I really find reason to take the floor after Trine Skei Grande's speech. If Trine Skei Grande had read the case, she would have seen that just what she's trying to focus on, has been treated. The Council of State has said that this will not be implemented until these posts are put in place – that is precisely what the debate has been about today. It is clear that if she had been present and heard the debate, and not least if she had read the setting, she would have seen that on page 3 among others. read: ‘The majority require adjustments to the electronic record systems to be made so that they are structured in all parts of the healthcare system so that the necessary health information can be distinguished from other sensitive personal information.’ If the representative had read this, she could have made another post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1726	The arrogance of the progressing party is sometimes very well visible. Some of us have worked on privacy matters for a long time, and we have actually worked on this matter for quite a long time – and sail if I am not in the committee, I assume that I have the right to speak. In fact, today there is a rather strict legislation on the use of health records. In fact, it is also the case that several people have lost their job because of a breach of this legislation. Today we have a technology where it is possible, for example. to create a core file with basic information. Mr. Nesvik may be informed that the Left has made a proposal that has been discussed in his own committee, just to make a nuclear record. That core journal contains what I talked about as basic information. With that, we would also have had the opportunity to avoid what we did, for example. have looked up in the evening post, about physiotherapists who have access to what people have said to their psychologist. There are a lot of examples that speak against Nesvik's posts. There are a lot of everyday examples out there among most people who talk to it. Before you can make the good regulations, you should not make that access. I think you should turn around the principle – turn around the principle and say you have to have a core journal with basic information, and then you have to create the access you need to those who need it, and maybe create a system where the patient can control who should have that access. But it's a job that the government hasn't cared about doing until you've done this. You haven't cared about taking that job and seeing if you might transfer responsibility to the patient. That is what we in the Left are responding to. That is why, as I have seen, people have also broken out of their own party systems in this matter. So I guess the seriousness of the matter must also have slipped into the committee. At least it has slipped over us who are not on the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1735	The President will note that the expression "arrogance" has been charged several times in this Chamber, and it is still as unparliamentary as it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1738	I just want to comment on one relationship. I am pleased that the representative Nesvik underlined that the part of the journal to be made available for cross-border access should be a very limited part, and it will now be working to create the regulation that regulates it. It shall be regulated, it shall be a restricted part of the record. Then there are many in the debate who have pointed out that this is technologically demanding, that the solutions do not exist today, but that the answer is nuclear journal. It is exactly the same idea that underlies a core journal, that there are parts of the journal that should be available to more people. If there is a technology that makes it possible to create a nuclear record, there must also be a technology that allows the requirements of the majority to be met for cross-border access. Core data are to be made available across borders. I think that now we're not going to exaggerate the disagreement that lies here, because I also have a lot of faith in the core journal based on the exact same reasoning that makes me believe in access across parts of the journal, the central part of the journal, the core part of the journal. I think the debate is going in the very right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1749	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 837]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1766	Ot. pp. No 53 for 2008-2009 does not have a major impact on or include changes in Norwegian alcohol policy. The background to the proposal is the conclusion of the European Court of Justice in June 2007, which stated that the import ban on alcohol was not part of the monopoly schemes of the Vinmonopolet or the Systembolaget, but had to be assessed under the provisions on free movement of goods. The European Court of Justice further concluded that the prohibition of private imports is a non-authorised barrier to trade. There will therefore be two practical ways to import privately, either to bring the goods with you as a private individual, or to get a transport company to take the goods separately. The proposal does not open for changes in quota sizes, etc. In practical terms, the person or persons who wants a larger import for their own use do not apply to the Directorate for Health for permission to do so and must relate only to the charges that have to be paid on the same basis as under existing legislation. It is such that in this matter the Committee generally agrees so far. There has been no big debate. The Christian People's Party has promoted its own proposal against private imports. The large majority support the proposal as it stands, while the Progress Party is of the opinion that the Government's interpretation of the legislation should be much more liberal. No matter what the European Court of Justice decides, Norway uses considerable resources to circumvent decisions or to pursue a policy of monopoly companies. This bill does not promote a case that suggests that alcoholic beverages will be legally sold by private importers. It is important that Norway relates to the same practical guidelines as our neighbouring countries on the import of alcohol. In particular, the Party will refer to the duty-free quotas which these countries have when importing alcohol as luggage. In this context, the Progress Party shall promote the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the introduction of the same duty-free quotas for imports of alcoholic beverages held in Sweden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1784	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1787	The Christian People's Party is committed to making alcohol available no more than is necessary, including under the EEA Agreement. Wine of fresh grapes is not covered by the EEA Agreement and may therefore be exempted from the proposal for the private introduction of alcoholic beverages. Therefore, the Christian People's Party suggests that wine of fresh grapes is not included in the proposal for private imports of alcohol. I want to point out the important role of the wine monopoly today. We are concerned that the role of the wine monopoly should not be undermined. When we know that 80 pst. the turnover of the monopoly on wine is linked to the sale of wine, I am concerned that the role of the monopoly on wine could be weakened. The wine monopoly is a key State instrument for the responsible and regulated sale of alcoholic beverages. Even the day after the committee gave its opinion on the positive lifting of the ban on the private introduction of alcoholic beverages, we could read about a wine importer who, with Spanish help, would blow up the monopoly of the Norwegian wine monopoly on wine. It is lured with much cheaper wine than the Wine Monopoly can deliver, and with future bonus schemes. An outside concern also expressed by the Vinmonopolet is the way in which control of supply and marketing is to be carried out, so that no minors are given alcohol. It's highly uncertain whether this could be satisfactorily achieved, as I see it. I have heard some examples from Sweden that this is problematic. In any case, I expect these conditions to be followed up and taken care of by the government authorities in a good way. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1802	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1805	I would like to make a brief comment. 11 pst. of all hospitalisations in Norway are alcohol-related. So alcohol is one of our biggest health policy challenges. When the EEA Agreement was adopted in its time, in 1993, we were assured that the EEA Agreement would not affect Norwegian alcohol policy. We have seen since then that the EEA Agreement has pushed itself into the area by area, from a differentiated employer's fee to private imports of alcohol here. The EEA Agreement has a dynamic form that challenges Norwegian policy and the Norwegian People's Council in a significant way, and I think it is sad and sad that we are now seeing a result of the EEA Agreement that is contrary to what we ourselves wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1814	The background to the Government’s proposal to lift the ban on the private introduction of alcoholic beverages into the alcohol law is that questions have been raised as to whether this prohibition is in line with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods. The prohibition of Sweden, similar to the Norwegian prohibition, was found by the European Court of Justice to be contrary to the rules on the free movement of goods, and Sweden has now lifted its prohibition. ESA has also assessed this in such a way that the Norwegian prohibition contravenes the rules on the free movement of goods. If the Norwegian prohibition is not lifted, a case must be brought before the EFTA Court. There are some differences between the Swedish and Norwegian schemes that could possibly lead to a different assessment for Norway than for Sweden. However, the outcome of any assessment of the case before the EFTA Court must be regarded as uncertain. The Government has therefore considered it most appropriate to propose the lifting of the ban and the introduction of alternative control mechanisms and requirements to ensure, inter alia, that: age control and payment of Norwegian alcohol taxes — in addition, no import arrangements are established in contravention of the wine monopoly system and the sales authorisation system. It is already possible for private individuals to introduce alcoholic beverages as their own luggage. The major practical change resulting from the legislative proposal is therefore that private individuals can now introduce alcoholic beverages for personal use without carrying the goods across the border themselves. This means that you can get a carrier to carry the goods across the border and have the goods delivered in Norway as a shipment. This is not allowed today. The impact of the ban on private imports on alcohol policy is expected to be negligible by the regulation proposed as an alternative to the import ban. There will be no uncontrolled supply of cheap alcoholic beverages to Norway. Norwegian alcohol levies should and continue to be paid, and demands will be made for the supply of alcoholic beverages introduced by private individuals, for example. age control. Nor is there any reason to believe that the lifting of the private import ban would have a significant impact on the wine monopoly. Private imports are generally assumed to be both more expensive and heavy-wine than the purchase of the alcoholic drink on the Vinmonopolet. Therefore, it is likely that the Vinmonopolet will continue to be the main source of sales of stronger alcoholic beverages to private individuals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1825	Just a little comment on the representative of the Central Party, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. With the position of the representative on the EEA Agreement and on the dangers of alcohol use, the Central Party should probably vote in favour of our proposal today. The government is going beyond what the EEA Agreement refers to. So it's kind of funny not to agree to our proposal. The possibility is still present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1830	The invitation is given. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox Since there are now 3 minutes left of this morning's meeting, the President will propose that we now suspend the negotiations and start again at noon. 18 with case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 839]] - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1867	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1876	The proposal under consideration today concerns a proposal to continue the IDU Act on a permanent basis and to provide municipalities with the necessary legal basis for establishing an IDU scheme. An overall committee suggests that the use of drugs causes serious health damage and social problems for many individuals and their families, and that drug use represents a significant social problem. There is a broad consensus that drug dependence needs to be prevented and that the negative consequences of drug use need to be reduced. However, the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party believe that the system of injection rooms is strongly opposed to these objectives and that ethical, priority and legal considerations speak against the continuation of injection rooms and therefore do not support the legislative proposal. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left, the Progress Party and the Left, on the other hand, support the Government's proposal to make the system of injection rooms permanent. I assume that these parties themselves will justify their position. In the right, it is particularly problematic that the scheme facilitates the use of heavy drugs for users as young as 19 years of age. Injection rooms may help to maintain an injection culture that presents a significant risk of overdose and health damage. The State Institute for Drug Research (SIRUS) states in the evaluation of the testing scheme of spray rooms that it has not helped to reduce overdoses or to prevent infections or to infect anything significantly. Thus, the central objective of the scheme has not been achieved. In the right, the system of injection rooms is difficult to describe as an harm-reduction measure, rather than as an alternative. The scope of social guidance is very limited. Only 8 pst. users received such guidance during the evaluation period. In January 2009, 237 out of 1,284 users received such follow-up, of which wound treatment accounted for the majority. Users state that contact with the auxiliaries is not a major reason for seeking the injection room, nor is better contact achieved through the system. The objective of increasing dignity can be difficult to achieve by means of a measure that facilitates the use of heavy, highly harmful substances. In the opinion of its family, the drug injection room stimulates increased drug use and thus increases the experience of hopelessness. Increased dignity should be sought through other support and assistance measures. There is broad consensus that the use, possession and placing on the market of drugs should be prohibited. In the right, the system of injection rooms is a clear violation of the prohibition of drugs, involving the possession of heroin by drug users. The UN Agency for the Implementation of the Drug Conventions has pointed out that the system is in violation of the UN Conventions and that it should cease. According to the SIRUS evaluation report and the opinions of the Norwegian Drug Police Association and several police districts, the drug injection room experiment has in practice resulted in the legalisation of heroin possession. There are a high number of registered users of the injection room, although they rarely use the drug. This may indicate that many register as users, with the intention of falling within the terms of criminal possession of heroin. In that case, this is an unintended effect. The scheme has a very high cost compared to the impact of the measure. About 10,500 daily heroin injections are carried out in Oslo, only 60–70 in injecting rooms. It costs approx. NOK 40,000 per year. per user years. The measure has not reduced the number of overdoses, nor has it contributed to minor contamination or increased contact with the auxiliaries. 4 532 drug addicts are in line for treatment. The supervisory authorities, trade unions and user organisations say that drug services fail at all stages. The government is doing very little to reduce the queue. In view of the high need for better treatment and support services for drug addicts, it does not appear appropriate to give priority to the system of injection rooms. The right considers that the State grant to the scheme must be re-prioritized to other aid and treatment measures. We believe that both ethical, priority and judicial policy considerations are against the continuation of the testing system of injection rooms. The right will therefore not support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1902	The Propulsion Party and John Alvheim were in their time one of the proponents to put injection rooms in place, and although some people believe that this was – and is – a controversial area, we in the Progress Party are pleased that the Government is putting up for permanent operation. As mentioned above, we have had a probationary system since 2004, and we are very pleased with the part of the Government's proposal that is about to get this permanent. As the Progress Party sees it, injection rooms are one of many services that society should provide to one of the weakest groups in society. Divergence in drug treatment is important and ultimately essential if we are to reach those who need it. Wanting to provide security for opiate addicts and giving a degree of dignity to a weaker group of people who have far greater problems than most people, is right and has a great value in showing respect, understanding and inclusive and fellow human attitudes. Let's all hope that we don't get back to the conditions and number of overdose deaths that we had in Norway around the millennium. The Progress Party does not agree with the financing of injection rooms provided by the Government. It'll almost always be so that bigger cities become easily a magnet of opiate addicts. The availability of drugs and the wider drug environment may be two reasons for this. Oslo is in this way the largest magnet, and it is, as we see it, an economic misappropriation to leave the financial costs to the individual municipality, in this case the municipality of Oslo. It is a fairer and more responsible distribution that the state assumes the financial costs and provides health assistance related to the operation of the injection room, while the municipalities are responsible for the provision of appropriate sites. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1915	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1918	I must disappoint the rapporteur on this matter, unfortunately I cannot support his opinion. Trials have been conducted with injection rooms in Norway, and when trials were to be carried out in due course, SV doubted a position that led to support for the scheme. In retrospect – I was probably one of those more concerned than some others in SV – I think it has been a useful experience to bring with me. I have also visited the injection room on two occasions and talked to a number of users plus employees. The spray room has been moved from Skippergata, or the area at Skippergata, to Storgata. It seems like the number of users increased, and that gradually there was a more positive experience, when you got a new location. It can also be seen that some other countries have used injection rooms before Norway. So there are eight different countries from which you have experience. I agree with the rapporteur that we must not forget that other measures are also necessary and that some measures should have the aim of being free from drugs. But for some of the absolutely heaviest users — if you can help them in such a way that they also get medical help — this might be a supplement that could be useful. Now there is a kind of experience that can be gained, and municipalities that are motivated to start injection rooms will have the opportunity to do so with the legislative changes proposed by the Government. SV supports the position of the majority of the committee, and is therefore in favour of the permanent possibility of setting up injection rooms for a municipality that wishes to do so, and that there is not only a testing scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1933	Unfortunately, this bill to continue the spray room law on a permanent basis is a step in the wrong direction from the red-green government, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The proposal violates the drug policy pursued in Norway for a long time. Measures are to combat drug abuse, not facilitate it. Freedom of rest must be the goal of treatment given, and dignity is to show that there is hope for all, the hope of getting out of the addiction that characterizes life. Drug policy must be based on prohibition and control, prevention, treatment and drug-free treatment. In my view, there must be a policy that is in line with the UN Conventions. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that the right to carry a user dose if registered in the needle and syringe room involves, in reality, legalisation, and this is very unfortunate. According to the Association Against Rusgift, today approx. 1.3 of all injecting drug users in Oslo registered as drug injectors. Although they rarely or never use the injection room, the injection room is a good haven if they are to be stopped by the police with a dose of heroin on them. As the needle and syringe area continues, an even greater proportion of injecting drug users will register, and the possibility of punishing drug users could thus be reduced. It costs a lot to run an injection room. The Christian People's Party believes it is better to spend this money on low-threshold health services for all drug users. This involves good and central availability, transparency, free help, no specialities, coming without having agreed time in advance, getting immediate help. Many drug addicts are unable to make use of their usual health services, despite the need for complex services, according to a report by SINTEF. In the same evaluation, it was found that users of such lowthreshold healthcare services themselves believe that it has improved their physical and mental health. It also helps to make provision from the municipality to drug addicts more comprehensive. Therefore, it is a much better option to spend money on this than to continue operating injection rooms. In addition to the IDU Act, we have witnessed that the Council of State thinks highly about introducing heroin on prescription to drug addicts, although no decision has been made on this issue. Recent regulations on drug treatment, known as medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR, have also been consulted. This provides for easier access to treatment with medicines, i.e. removing, among other things, the age limit. In summary, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this is the wrong way to go, and there is much going wrong in the drugs policy. I would like to sum up: the age limit for LAR is reduced. Injection rooms become a permanent offer. We're discussing heroin on prescription. Long-term treatment for drug users has been drastically reduced, not least in the Health South-East area, where we see the heaviest drug users. Institutions that were previously completely drug-free, and wanted to be so, also because some users would be in those institutions, are forced either to accept LAR patients or not to make agreements. There are only a few institutions left that are allowed to operate a few places that are completely drug-free. The waiting time increases, overall treatment is few in proportion to all those in need. Yes, ruspacers fail in our country today – I have to say that with my hand on my heart. And injection rooms are at least not the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1952	The left supports the proposal to make the injection room system permanent. We believe that the injection room system is a health service that is both necessary and important and that experience so far is absolutely positive. Otherwise I will say that the purpose of a law is rarely as well formulated as in this § 1, which includes. name: ‘The spray resuscitation scheme shall contribute to the enhancement of the dignity of people with long-standing drug dependence by providing a hygienic framework for injecting. In addition, the injection room system shall contribute to increased health protection, including the prevention of infections and infections and the provision of more rapid assistance in the event of overdoses, through the presence and supervision of health professionals. The aim is also to contribute to the increased possibility of contacts and conversations between the individual user and the auxiliaries with a view to multidisciplinary follow-up and treatment.» I think it's very well formulated, and it describes what is the intention in this matter. Otherwise, I would like to say that this law is open to spray rooms in all municipalities, so it is turned into a national solution. I thought that was very good, because it is the responsibility of all the municipalities. It's not just that a close one can export their problems, as today. So I think it's very good that local politicians get this challenge in their hands – and in the right place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1966	In my opinion, when the Government proposes to continue the IDU Act on a permanent basis, it is based on a sense of solidarity. Anyone with a drug problem has the right to a decent life and to be met with respect from society and the auxiliaries. The main objectives of treatment and rehabilitation are established, but it must be recognised that there will be some who are not motivated for treatment. Of course, these should also have help. These are people with severe health problems, and many will have more discontinued treatment attempts behind them. This raises questions about what we can offer this group, as well as the provision of rehabilitation. It is this demarcated group of people that the injection room system is targeting. Drug problems need to be addressed by a variety of instruments and measures. Through the escalation plan for the drug field, we have provided the basis for a significant strengthening of the supply. Quality shall be increased, capacity increased and services shall be available and differentiated, characterised by interaction and good patient conduct. The needle and syringe exchange scheme shall not replace measures aimed at prevention and rehabilitation but shall complement a comprehensive municipal action chain. The government has therefore stressed that it is the individual municipality that should be able to choose whether to set up an injection room scheme according to local needs. I would like to stress that the injection room system is not a haven for illicit use of drugs. Drug use is and will continue to be banned. However, when it comes to injecting one dose of heroin into the injection room, we do so in order to increase the availability of guidance, health care and information on the auxiliaries. Experience suggests that the target population will use drugs regardless of whether or not they have access to an injection room. The size scheme provided for a sample scheme with injection rooms in 2004. Oslo Municipality is the only municipality that has established an injection room. The State Institute for Drug Research has evaluated the offer in the first two years. It shows that the injection room system is perceived to be very positive by users and that staff reach out with guidance and health care. The use of the spray room has increased since it moved to new premises. There are now more than 900 active drug injectors, with between 60 and 70 visits per year. day(s) The municipality of Oslo supports the Government’s proposal to continue the IDU Act. The proposal for a permanent injection room law is part of a comprehensive and long-term strategy to strengthen the supply of vulnerable drug addicts. An injection room can be a good and appropriate measure to improve the health provision of a demarcated and marginalised group, although the main emphasis of the effort will be on ordinary health and social services with a focus on prevention, care, treatment and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1984	As I said earlier, the Progress Party supports the Government's proposal to have a permanent arrangement. It is very important to get in place, and for those with this addiction, the system has come to be loved. But the Progress Party does not agree with today's financing system. We want a model where the state has the financial responsibility for both the operation of the injection room itself and the health care provided there. Doesn't the Council of State see a danger that those drug addicts will be very easily involved when we know how, and what tasks, the municipalities must give priority to? Not least, we know that very often the worst in society is the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e1992	There is a point in the perspective of the Progress Party here, but I believe that the thinking underlying this proposal is very correct. The whole Storting agrees that every year we are now going to escalate the efforts on the drug field. Then we can have a discussion about it going fast enough, but this year is for example. the growth in the budget in the drug field of more than 300 million. kr. Much of the appropriations go to municipalities, the rest go to specialised treatment. This means that municipalities now have their budgets strengthened every year in view of drug addicts. Then it is very important that you have local glasses on and look at where the shoe prints most for the strongest drug addicts in your municipality: Is there a wide range of health services? Is it follow-up services? Is it traveling services? Is that a spray room? That assessment is probably different in Fredrikstad versus Oslo and versus Trondheim. And that's what it has to be. So injection rooms have to be put in place in those municipalities where priority is given. And it will be financed indirectly by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2001	As I was in my post, there is a broad consensus that drug dependence needs to be prevented, and that the negative consequences of drug use need to be reduced. The right considers that the system of injection rooms is in stark contrast to these objectives and that it is particularly problematic that the scheme facilitates the use of heavy drugs for users as young as 19 years old. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2006	I think I'll deal with the fact that if there are 19-year-olds in the injection room, it's because we have 19-year-olds who are heavily heroin addicts, and then I want to help them. You can't say, "No, you're 19, so I don't want to help you." In this case, access to the injection room is linked to the sad fact that we have 19-year-olds in that situation. I believe that the injection room should not be used at all as an excuse for not making the most possible use of it for the least possible 19-year-olds. But as long as there's one 19-year-old there, I would very much like to create greater dignity around that situation. And I think that's what the spray room is contributing to. I have a very little moral approach to this; I have a very focus on health care for those who need it. That is also the background for me thinking about heroin-assisted treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2015	First, I would like to make it clear that talking about decent treatment or dignity, at least not for me, will ever be able to facilitate heroin injection or, to that end, to facilitate injection rooms, as we are doing now. I would like to ask a little about the evaluation of the injection room test. Governments were concerned that users could receive guidance. Only 8 pst. of those who have been in injecting rooms throughout the period, have received such guidance. SIRIUS says that overdose deaths have not been reduced. There is no effect on the prevention of infection, nor on infection. This has led to legalisation. It also says Norwegian Narcotics Association. Oslo police districts also warn. What, then, is the SIRIUS evaluation report that provides for the continuation of injection rooms on a permanent basis, when there are so many negative or missing effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2022	The only group that the representative Davøy now did not mention was the drug addicts, and they are well satisfied. That's why we're going to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2027	I think I would say it so simple that for a drug addict who may not have received an offer, who is perhaps in line, who has been rejected many times, who may have been detoxified and who has come out again and has had to sit down in a new queue, it is clear that getting easier access to heroin will be difficult to say no to. In particular, I will link it to LAR treatment and possible future heroin on prescription. These people are in a very difficult situation. If we had opened our arms and said that they could choose on the top shelf of all the offers we have, they would get help 24 hours a day, I am not sure if they would have gone to an injection room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2032	My realistic assessment of that question is that at least so far there is no country in the world that has at any time managed to capture any opiate addict and can say that no one will ever be in a situation where the auxiliaries are so good that no one will put a heroin dose illegally. I also think that the representative Davøy admits is a very unrealistic goal. And then we know that heroin doses will be put in this city – by young people, old people – in different situations of life. I just can't see that it's better and more worthy that it happens in some dirty garage or in some kind of portrait, where people are sitting under totally unworthy conditions in my opinion, than that happens within the system we have here. I think it's worth more. It's allowed to disagree, but I understand that users think it's worth it, and I think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2039	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 841]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2058	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2067	In this case, it is proposed to legislate the responsibilities of county councils in public health work. It is a follow-up to the work carried out in the context of the administrative reform. One suggests, among other things: that county councils shall support the public health work of the municipalities and have the necessary overview of the state of health in the county and the factors that may affect it, including the features of developments that may create or maintain social health differences. I would first of all refer to the vote and to the remarks, where the positions of the various parties are expressed, but I would like to say briefly that the majority in the vote consists of the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The majority support the legislative proposal and show, among other things: that a number of areas, in addition to the health sector, may have an impact on public health and social cohesion and that the county councils are currently responsible in several such areas. It may be from environmental protection to secondary school, in addition to dental care, which is, of course, county municipality. The minority, the Advance Party and the Right, will vote against the bill and write in the vote. that they believe that public tasks should be addressed at the lowest effective level of administration. The Progress Party also has a minority proposal stating that they wish to be given responsibility for coordination and interaction in public health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2076	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his very informative communication on the matter in committee. On the basis of the fact that the rapporteur has presented the matter in such a good manner, I would only like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2081	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2089	Then Odelstinget will vote in case No. 1-14.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2148	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2157	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2164	During the debate, Mr Horne presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Empty fastening Act shall be replaced by the following: In the case of the redemption of land which has been attached away to residential or leisure buildings, the sum of the redemption shall be 30 times per year after the regulation at the time of redemption, unless a smaller redemption sum is agreed.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2198	In the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 37, the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the recommendation from the Committee will be replaced by an alternative. The voting boards showed 58 votes for the recommendation of the Committee to the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 37 and 17 votes for the proposal of the Advance Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.41.09]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2207	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2212	Then there are 59 voices for the recommendation and 16 voices for the proposal. The rest of the committee's recommendation to I will be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2223	The Committee's recommendation to II will be rejected. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2236	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2245	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2252	During the debate, Mr Dahl presented four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-19 of the Act of Shareholders shall be replaced by the following: annual accounts and annual report shall be discussed in a meeting, however, so that remote meeting techniques can be used when the entire Governing Board considers it appropriate.’; The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2596	Alternatively, between the Committee's recommendation to § 5-11 and § 5-11 II and proposal No. 1, from the Right and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 5 to 11 of the Shareholders Act shall be replaced by the following: Shareholders’ right to have cases dealt with at the general meeting A shareholder has the right to be dealt with at the general meeting. The question shall be notified in writing to the Management Board. A new notice shall be issued if the time limit for convening the general meeting is not exceeded. A shareholder also has the right to table motions for resolutions. Paragraphs 5 to 11 of the General Shares Act are replaced by the following: Shareholders' right to have cases dealt with at the general meeting A shareholder has the right to be dealt with at the general meeting. The question shall be notified in writing to the Management Board within seven days of the time limit for convening the general meeting. A new notice shall be issued if the time limit for convening the general meeting is not exceeded. A shareholder also has the right to make motions for resolutions.’;» The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support the proposal. The voting boards showed 39 voices for the recommendation and 37 voices for the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.43.51]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2620	I will promise that it will not be a habit, but I have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2625	Then there will be 40 voices for the recommendation and 37 voices for the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee to Section III of Chapter 5, new Section 5-11(a), second sentence of Section 13-12, and proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2657	Alternatively, the second sentence of Section 5-10 of the fourth paragraph of Section II, Section 5 of Section III is replaced by the second sentence of Section 5-11(a) and the second sentence of Section 13-12 and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The general share law is amended as follows: the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 5 to 10 shall be replaced by the following: If documents relating to matters to be dealt with at the general meeting are made available to shareholders on the company’s Internet pages in accordance with the rules of Sections 5 to 11(a), the call shall indicate the internet address and other information that shareholders must have in order to have access to the documents on the company’s Internet pages, as well as information on where shareholders may contact to obtain the documents. In Chapter 5, Section III, Section 5-11(a) is replaced by the following: Exemption from the requirement to send documents posted on the company’s Internet pages If documents relating to matters to be dealt with at the general meeting have been made available to shareholders on the company’s Internet pages, the law does not apply to the requirement that the documents be sent to shareholders. This also applies to documents to be entered or annexed by law to the convocation of the general meeting. However, a shareholder may require the transmission of documents relating to matters to be dealt with at the general meeting. The statutes may provide that documents referred to in the first and second sentences shall always be sent to shareholders with a known address. The company may not require any remuneration to send the documents to its shareholders. The second sentence of the second paragraph of Article 13-12 shall be replaced by the following: the documents may instead be made available to shareholders on the Internet site of the acquiring company and on the company’s registered office.’; The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2689	The rest of I and II, and over III, IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2698	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2708	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e2715	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit without delay an assessment of the extent to which the EU Professional Qualifications Directive affects national legislation, as well as an assessment of the extent to which Norway’s EEA obligations indicate an obligation to accept services from non-resident weight companies. The Government is asked to submit any legislative amendments as soon as possible in order to meet our international obligations.’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the submission of the State budget, to establish the posts provided for by the 2001 Stortingen in the course of the adoption of the previous law on watchkeeping.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3160	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3169	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3176	During the debate, Elisabeth Aspaker has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3297	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3306	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3345	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3354	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3463	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3472	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3505	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3516	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3529	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3666	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3675	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3848	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3857	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3864	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3869	Inge Ryan gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3872	As I said in my post today, SV is not behind the recommendation in the setting, but SV's group will vote in favour of the committee's recommendation in the setting, and vote against the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e3877	It's registered. During the debate, Sonja Irene Sjøli has presented two proposals on behalf of the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Socialist Left Party – in this context the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo – Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act 18 May 2001 No 24 on health records and the processing of health data are amended as follows: § 7 is replaced by the following: § 7 Regional, local health records and the cross-cutting, treatment-oriented health records of activities [[Health Register Act]] No regional, local or business-wide health records may be established with health data other than those resulting from this or other law. The size shall provide detailed provisions for the establishment of regional, local and business-wide, treatment-oriented health records and the processing of health data for the performance of tasks under the infectious diseases law, the Specialist Health Services Act, the Dental Services Act, the Municipal Health Service Act and the Social Services Act. It also includes cross-activity, treatment-oriented health records for health professionals with formalised occupational communities. Cross-industry, treatment-oriented health records may contain only specified health information to the extent necessary for cooperation in the treatment of patients between establishments and under the conditions otherwise deriving from this law and other legislation. Cross-activity, treatment-oriented health records shall be kept electronically. The name, birth number or other direct person-identifying characteristics may be processed only with the consent of the data subject. Consent of the data subject is not necessary if the regulation provides that health information can only be processed in pseudonymised or deidentified form by external encryption. For the use of cross-activity, treatment-oriented health records for health professionals with a formalised occupational community, it is sufficient that the patient be informed of the register with the right to reserve. The regulation shall specify the purpose of the processing of the health data, the data that can be processed and, where appropriate, the detailed rules on who is to perform the pseudonymisation and the principles on how it is to be done. The Regulation shall provide detailed rules on how information can be made available in agreement with – and in consultation with – the patient, location, registration, access and access control of the information. It shall also lay down rules on data processing responsibilities. § 9 is replaced by the following: § 9 In particular, on the collection of health data to central, regional, local health records and cross-activity, treatment-oriented health records, reporting obligations, etc. Establishments and health professionals providing or providing services under the Pharmacy Act, the Local Health Service Act, the Social Services Act, the Infection Protection Act, the Specialist Health Service Act or the Dental Service Act, obligations to supply or transmit information as provided for in the Regulations under Sections 7 and 8 and under the paragraph here. The size shall specify the details of the collection of health data in accordance with Sections 7 and 8, including provisions on who will provide and receive the information and on deadlines, format requirements and notification forms. The person receiving the information shall inform the consignor of the information in the event of a lack of information. Section 13 of the second paragraph is replaced by the following: The patient is entitled to access the log giving information about who has had access to health information that can be linked to him.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4057	There will be votert alternately between II § 45 and proposal No. 2, from the Right, Socialist Left Party – i.e. the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo – the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 64 on health professionals, etc. § 45 shall be replaced by the following: § 45 Provision of and access to the records and records [[Health Act]] Unless the patient opposes it, health professionals as referred to in Section 39 shall provide the necessary information in their records to others providing health care under this law, where this is necessary in order to provide health care properly. The record shall indicate that other health professionals have been given access to the record after the first sentence. The health information referred to in the first subparagraph may be provided by the data controller or the health professional who has documented the information, as specified in the first subparagraph. Paragraph 39. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the completion of the first subparagraph and may, inter alia, provide that other health professionals may also be given access to the record in cases outside the first subparagraph.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4082	It's going to get wet over I.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4093	The rest of the rest of the II and the III will be grazed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4105	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4114	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4121	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the representatives' seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4251	It will first be replaced by an alternative between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 2-1, new third paragraph, and proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4270	It's going to be over the rest of I and over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4279	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4288	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4295	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the financial responsibility for the operation of spray rooms is assigned to the State, while the municipalities are held responsible for the provision of appropriate premises.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4539	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4550	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President will believe that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will also vote against this. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4563	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4570	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate reinforced public health work in the municipalities, which includes the tasks proposed for the county council. The county is given responsibility for coordination and interaction in public health.» This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4623	The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4634	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The progress party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4647	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10-lower.ana.ud29e4669	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
