ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e236	The attitude of the Presidency is unanimous, but I nevertheless find it necessary to say a few words since there are extensive and also historical changes that we are going to make in the Rules of Procedure. It follows up the Constitutional Decision of the Stortinget on 20 February 2007 to wind up Odelstinget and Laginget from 1 October 2009 and to deal with legislative proposals twice in total, possibly three times. A large part of the changes now proposed in the Rules of Procedure are necessary consequences and are purely technical. Some other amendments are proposed to bring the wording of the Rules of Procedure into line with practice. Under the new constitutional provisions, Stortinget shall elect a President and five Vice-Presidents. These six shall constitute the Presidency. A general ranking of the Vice-Presidents will result from their being chosen as the first Vice-President, the second Vice-President, etc. The first Vice-President shall be the Vice-President of the Presidency and shall act as the temporary President of the Grand Duchy when the President of the Grand Duchy is unable to perform the duties due to maturity. As regards the management of the major meetings, it is generally proposed that the President of the Grand Duchy should be the head of the meeting, but he or she may entrust the management of the meeting to a Vice-President. The detailed distribution of the meeting management is assumed to be agreed between the chieftain and the vice-presidents. Vara presidents will no longer be needed, but there will still be access to the president of the set for a shorter period. If there's a voting similarity in the thing, do the president's, i.e. the chairman's, always vote now. This is proposed to be maintained when the President-in-Office is the head of the meeting. However, when another President is the head of the meeting, the chairperson shall initially not vote by consensus when voting on the content of a case. Conformity in such cases will mean that a valid decision has not been taken and that proceedings must continue in a subsequent meeting. A new vote on the same voting theme will have to be held in the subsequent part-session. If that is the same as the new vote, the vote of the chairperson is crucial. These rules are proposed by voting on the content of the cases. If, on the other hand, the procedure for dealing with a case in Stortinget is to be followed, the vote of the chairman of the meeting shall remain decisive, irrespective of who chairs the meeting. Now the President of Storting and the Vice President can be released from being a member of some of the permanent committees. The Presidency indicates that the Grandfather has little opportunity to participate actively in the work of a trade committee as a result of his many other tasks. This development must be assumed to continue. It is therefore proposed that the Grandfather should not be elected a member of any trade committee. It is also proposed that none of the Vice-Presidents be exempted from membership of the Trade Union Committee. In accordance with the new rules governing the legislative procedure, as mentioned above, legislative proposals are also to be dealt with in the plenary session of the Stortinge. In consultation with the Government, the Presidency has concluded that decisions by the Stortinget which are not passed by law will be called ‘burden decisions’. From the Government it has been notified that it intends, in some cases, to propose legislative acts and decisions in the same pro posal where this is part of the same matter in substance and politically. The Presidency takes the view that the same proposal for a representative will also be able to promote both legislative proposals and proposals for a roll-out decision. It is important to maintain a clean process of dealing with legal issues. Therefore, the Presidency agrees that, as a general rule, access to both types of draft recommendation and proposal may not be open to a committee establishment. A derogation from this general rule is proposed, namely that a suspension containing recommendations or proposals for legislative decisions may also include recommendations or proposals for a request to the Government. It is proposed that requests made in connection with a legislative matter be included on the agenda as a separate matter for consideration after the Grand Duchy has concluded its proceedings. Furthermore, a rule is proposed that only when a legislative proposal is the basis for a vote may the vote include draft legislative decisions in the recommendation or proposal. It follows that no legislative proposals can be made during the examination by Stortingen of a proposal or a proposal for a representative containing only proposals for a decision on the size of the store, nor during the examination of a notification on the size of the store. It is proposed to include in Section 16 some basic rules on how the committees are to handle classified documents. The rules proposed are consistent with those which have been common practice. Laws and other matters could be dealt with in the same grand meeting. It should continue to be stressed that matters relating to the territory of the same State Council or to the territory of the same Committee should be put together on the agenda. In addition, account should be taken of the reasons why the first proceedings of legal cases should be brought together, and the second proceedings of legal cases should be brought together when there are several such cases on the agenda. All these considerations should be included in the evaluation when the agendas are drawn up. The Presidency has not found it appropriate that the Rules of Procedure should have rules on the order of business on the agenda. Once experience has been gained with the re-examination of legal acts, it will be considered whether a firm practice should be established. The general rule that all matters dealt with in a meeting should be put to the vote at the end of the meeting is proposed to be maintained. That is to say, as a general rule, voting at the end of the meeting also takes place when both legal and other matters have been dealt with in the meeting. Now it is the case that legal propositions that have not yet been dealt with by Odelstinget and Laging at the end of the electoral period are dropped. This applies to legislative proposals made during the election period. Something else applies to grossing-up and grossing-up messages that have not been processed at the end of the electoral period. They don't just fall away. The Presidency may propose to the Storting that they be taken into consideration during the new parliamentary term. In such cases, an opinion is obtained from the Government as to whether it wishes to continue the processing of the proposal or the notification. The Presidency proposes that legislative propositions be subject to the same rule that now applies to other propositions and messages. However, because Odelsting ceases to exist, it is proposed that odelsting propositions that are not completed by the Odelstinget and the Laginge during the current parliamentary term will lapse at the end of this parliamentary term, regardless of whether the propositions have been transferred to the Odelsting meeting. Some of this was probably simple intelligible and other things more complicated, but it is nevertheless important that it is said. I recommend that the setting be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e266	The president thinks it was a useful review. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e285	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e294	First, I want to commend the proposers for focusing on an important topic. Children are entitled to be with both parents, and Norwegian children are entitled to be at home in Norway. It is also a criminal act to abduct Norwegian children abroad. The government and SV are busy with the children who are unfortunately being abducted abroad. That is exactly why we have a continuous work going on both to prevent abductions and to get abducted children back home. The main tool for bringing abducted children back to Norway is the Hague Convention. Every country that has joined it is obliged to send the child back to its home country, and in most cases the child is picked up quite quickly. I therefore share the Minister of Justice's view when he denies that association to the Convention does not help. However, we have to recognise that not all matters are easy to solve. We must remember that Norway does not actually have jurisdiction in other countries and depends on national authorities in the country to which the child is abducted, is cooperative, and that the child is not concealed by national authorities. It is far worse with countries which are not members of the Hague Convention. There, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Office assist the parents. The EEAS may, inter alia: provide practical advice, general information and any contact with the authorities of the country to which the child is abducted, and communicate the contact to local lawyers. However, if the parties do not reach agreement on parental responsibility, day-to-day care and future residence of the child, the matter will in many cases have to be resolved through a regular child-distribution case in the country to which the child is abducted — often a country with a completely different culture and legal tradition, and a foreign language. In his letter to the Committee, the Minister of Justice wrote that it would be best for as many countries as possible to accede to the Hague Convention. I agree. I disagree that the Government is passive in this matter. The government has ensured that all child-removal cases have been transferred to the same county office, namely the County of Oslo and Akershus. This ensures non-discrimination and prompt treatment. A web portal has been established with the name www. children awayforing.no. Here parents who have had their child abducted or feared it, guidance and tips. Two Judges have been appointed to assist with knowledge of the handling of these cases before Norwegian courts. In 2007, in order to enhance the competence of police and prosecution authorities, a contact person in Kripos was also appointed to assist in the knowledge of police and prosecution authorities. In order to increase the competence of Norwegian lawyers and help interested parties to contact competent Norwegian lawyers more quickly, the Ministry of Justice is now working to establish a list of lawyers in child abduction cases. These are some of the measures taken by the Government. The government and the red-green parties are proud of their efforts, but that does not mean that we have stopped working because no child is abducted, and that all abducted Norwegian children are taken home. In this job and in this assessment there is also the question of whether the financial benefits can be used both to prevent and, in particular, to bring abducted children home. We believe that what is important is that the government does a thorough, solid work instead of promoting the matter for the Storting without any content in it. I therefore trust the Government and look forward to new things about how we can strengthen the work against children being abducted, and that they are taken home, coming to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e328	There are issues that have different severity in themselves. This is at my discretion one of the most serious issues, although it affects quite few. Losing one of their children in an irregular way is one of the worst things you can be exposed to as a parent. I must say that after listening to the rapporteur, who boasts of the Progress Party initiative, I appreciate it. I wish I could have said that the majority of the Judicial Committee was just as liberal. One of the things the minority asked for was a hearing on this matter. It thought the red-green parts were unnecessary because this was obvious. With all possible respect, I think it's bad. I think that there is a lack of respect for the victims, because the parents who have their children abducted do not want to be heard in the Justice Committee. So that's what the representative, Chaudhry, is pleased with. I personally find it disrespectful to those degrees, and I think it bears witness to a lack of understanding of how this is felt. But I take the rose because we've addressed the problem. This is a problem which was also raised in the previous judicial committee, and which was in the pen by the very current Minister of Justice, so I had hoped for a greater understanding of the problems faced when the children were abducted. I think you might just have to face it to understand how difficult it can be. Most of us are parents and experience closeness to our children, and we expect in a way to live in secure assurance that it will be so on. That day one of yours suddenly is unlawfully gone, I think one will feel hit, feel extremely hit. They will then be obliged to ask for help from the Norwegian authorities. I need help getting my son or my daughter back here, because I'm the legitimate parent, I'm the caregiver, I want this to happen by the Norwegian authorities helping me. The opposite is true: in many cases, the Norwegian authorities, who have been trusted, who are known to be the best in the world, fail when you need them the most. I think that the feedback we have received from affected parents testifies to a discrepancy between the understanding that is described here today and the reality that is out there. One of the things that I think is mysterious is the way the police act, that you want a court order before you can start the process at all, and not least that some people feel that, when you have lost a child to a report, it takes – these are individual cases where I have been recorded – a little over a month, and then the case is closed. There is evidence that either Norwegian police have investigative capabilities that go far beyond what I normally experience, or you simply do one too bad job. Then was the President of the Court of Justice in the Hague Convention. Yes, I fully agree, and I also agree with what was said that as much as possible should join it. But is not the main problem that they actually have to respect what they are signing? I think that's the main problem. One thing is to sign it, another thing is to comply with it, and that will also apply, of course, in cases where children are being taken illegally to Norway from other countries. So it's a balance point how we act when children are kidnapped from other countries and here, in relation to how we act when children are taken out of Norway, which this case is primarily about. But I think again that the most important thing we do is to listen to the affected, listen to the parents and do what we can. Another reason why this is urgent is that the sooner we can do it, the stronger is a Norwegian court order, the longer it takes to get the children back. So it's opening up a new court-martial. We're going to discuss the Lugano Convention later today, but it's putting some leads on these things. I think we have to act more untraditionally than we've done today, and I think, among other things. economic conditions can make this more difficult for the abductor. I think, unfortunately, that in some cases a kidnapped child is actually a significant source of income in the new country to which the other parent chooses to take it. If we then have a regime that makes the child – to call it that – the main sponsor, with all sorts of respect, it's hard to turn this around. That is why we have put forward proposals that require us to create a new regime on how, if any, funds for the child are to be transferred and used, so that we do not do so. I also see that on a question I asked about parental discrimination with regard to the Nav system, this has been rejected. I wish you could be more liberal in this respect, and actually do a study and see if there's gender-based difference in how you act. Because I would think that a father and a mother should be equivalent to care parents, and that at least there should be no difference in how to treat them from Nav's point of view. With this I want to address our proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e349	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e352	The rapporteur has explained the matter and, on the right, we would like to stress that child abduction cases are very serious. It is necessary to experience both dramatic and frightening when children appear to be safe, move from their home environment and, in the worst cases, disappear from Norway to new and alienated countries and cultures. Some measures have been put in place by the authorities to prevent and solve child abduction. Raising the skills of auxiliaries and in the justice sector needs to be put in place if we have ambitions to prevent, solve and resolve such issues. The right also believes it would be right to use different types of sanctions to bring about clear consequences for the abduction of children. We are aware that the Ministry of Justice, together with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, are working to assess, among other things. stop financial benefits and child-removal transfers. This work must be given priority, so that we in this country are given more effective tools in the fight against child abduction. It might be interesting if the Council of State here today could inform the Storting about when new rules and sanctions may be in place. Child Abduction is at the same time a field of work where international police cooperation at all levels, Nordic, European and global, will often be required to address such issues. Our connection to international conventions commits. Norway must therefore go ahead in order to prevent children from becoming victims of abduction, with the physical and mental stress this in itself means. In the treatment of new criminal laws, the penalties were doubled from three to six years in the most serious cases, such as where one of the parents takes the children abroad. This is a clear indication from society's and legislator's point of view of such matters. In this context, it is also important that Norwegian authorities assist in the fight to bring children back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e365	A little reflection: I want to start with the positive side, and that's that this is a kind of thing where a lot of people get involved. It's been the Stortinget before, it's the Stortinget today, and it's right. Then it's that reflection that in the last big day it was the duty of the Minister of Justice to be impatient. He was – rightly so. In this magnificence, it is the duty of the representative Ellingen to be impatient – rightly so. And so it is that all those who are going to sit and manage impatience, with a slightly different name, become a little more thoughtful than the impatient, not because they are not impatient, and not because they don't want the matter well, but because you have to weigh a little cross-estimate considerations. I'm just taking note of it. It does not prevent anyone from still being impatient, for it is right, as the representative Ellingen now says, and as the representative Storberget in his time, the Council of State now, said, that these are things you have to care about, and by having the kind of commitment and pressure around the case you do what you can to keep matters alive. Then the issues are complicated, because there are cases within the Hague Convention and outside the Hague Convention, and we know that with matters within the Hague Convention, sometimes it is a very demanding work to get results. My experience is that the part of the Norwegian administration working on these matters, the Ministry of Justice, is deeply involved in them. They do a lot of things. They are often drawn out as unreasonable in the public, but I just want to say from this pulpit that they should have recognition that they are actually on, that they are burning for it. So often employees of general government have to express themselves a little soberly, even if they burn for a cause, when they act in public. But on behalf of these employees that I have met, I just want to say this. I would also like to say that I understand all those who are affected by the issues, who are on, because they are put in the desperate situation, which has been expressed by previous speakers. But when we get to that situation, with my experience in these matters, I'm going to vote for the majority position, because I think it's the way it should be, in full respect for the impatience of the representative Ellingen. I have no reason to doubt that the department is really working on this; I think they are. But it's good that someone is impatient in complicated matters, because the risk is otherwise that because of the complexity, things die. Hard-working people in the Norwegian administration system deserve some calls when they are in silence, and do their utmost to get solutions. So one day we'll find intersections that are better than before, and without impatience we can't do that. But the conclusion is clear: the left votes with the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e376	I think everyone who has been in contact with parents who have been exposed to this is getting engaged. And we draw that commitment with us even when we get in position. But we might see some of the dilemmas more clearly, as the representative Dørum also drew up, when we get in position, in relation to all the challenges that meet us in relation to these issues. I will also be allowed to stress that much of what has now been done is a good answer to what many parents are asking for. What is a little sad in the debate on child abduction is that much of the debate in public space is largely influenced by the situations in which we do not achieve results. I fully agree with the representative Dørum when he points out that there is actually a considerable amount of work being done in several departments and also in the police to help people. What I have recorded during these years is that this work, which rests on the efforts of the former government, but also on the present, for many parents have produced good results – outside the Hague Convention, but also within the Hague Convention. There has been a public case of picking up children from so far away as Palau, where you can see that you have almost used all possible tools, as far as you can in public terms, to bring back children, and where you have done it – I kept saying against all odds. We've seen a couple of challenges that dominate these issues. The first is that we need skills enhancement and status enhancement in relation to this type of work. That is what Mr Ellingsen is talking about, I think, when he speaks in particular about the need for the police and other actors to react quickly. You have the opportunity to stop these matters at an earlier stage if you're organized to do so. That's the background for the actions we've taken to have a national group, and also a Nordic group, working on this. I am convinced that this will produce results. The work we have done on the Justice Department website, which helps people get the necessary information – not only those who are exposed to it, but also those who are going to work on these matters – is a very important job. It's also demanding for us in the department, because in many ways it shows those who are exposed to this, that there is an apparatus there, and it attracts a lot of things, of course, but it should just be missing. So I also believe that getting more countries to join the Hague Convention is an important job, but we don't have any authority to oblige other nations to do so. But that's one of the reasons why, among other things, The undersigned has spent a lot of time traveling around, and that this is a topic that we address when we meet our colleagues from other nations. The Hague Convention is a good international tool for resolving these matters, but at the same time, and it was the representative Dørum also inside, it is the jam of some of the issues that we have had, which lies well within the Hague Convention. I would particularly like to point out an old case that has rolled and gone, which concerns Mexico, where we have not got through, and where we see that, among other things. The years that go by make it impossible for children to be brought back. When children live away for 10 years from one parent, it goes without saying that there are other reasons than legal and more conventional that apply. The child is established in another society, the child is established with another caregiver, which simply makes it difficult to consider the best way to return the child. So here we are facing challenges. I think it is a good thing that we always have a sitting opposition who is concerned about these matters, because I believe that it constitutes a very important pressure, not only towards the ministry and government, but also towards the other apparatus in relation to keeping this matter warm. And we have a lot left. When it comes to the issue of financial penalties, that was one of the issues I raised when I was in opposition; that is quite right. I think it's a very important tool. It can contribute to recovery. But at the same time it's a very important reactionary signal, and in that way it has a great general preventive effect if you can get it started. And then it also has a backside. Some of these benefits are intended to support the care of the child, and in this way a balance must be made. That's the balance we're up to now. I hope, and have the ambition, that we will come back quickly to the Storting with it, but it's hard for me to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e398	I thank the Council of State for its positiveness in its feedback. He has knowledge of this both from the previous period and from the present one. A simple question to begin with: it's like the department has a government policy on issues that are so-called solved, that is, where abduction has been solved. Does the ministry also receive income for its own statistics issues where parents through untraditional grip actually bring back a kidnapped child here to the country on their own? Is it included in the official statistics used by the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e405	The statistics, as far as I have gained experience, are based on the fact that the reported issues you have, and that you work with, are also recorded as solved. Without certain reservations – I can investigate it – I am quite sure that you do not take into account the reasons why you have found a solution in the case. It is sometimes also very difficult to find out what is the real reason for getting a solution in the case. In most of these cases, it's about interaction. The Palau case, as I mentioned, was almost stamped by me as hopeless when we got it in. I met both fathers. There were two fathers and one mother in Palau. We had not got a solution in that case if we had not had an active diplomatic engagement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but we would not have had a solution if we had not had two active fathers who stood up to the degrees to the Norwegian authorities, but who at the same time also went, and took the chance. So it was an interaction. This is a matter that we absolutely perceive as solved, but no one alone can get the credit for it. It was the interaction that contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e415	Governments were also concerned about this with the interaction and the challenge of time. It's probably the case that both the Hague Convention and the Lugano Convention say something about the premise for the verdict here in the country and the further process. It was also part of what I took up in my post when it was time. Does the Council of State see any possibility for any major intervention in the leadership of the Hague Convention, just to take into account the time factor, which, in my view, is the major risk factor in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e422	I believe that it is a very topical issue when we meet other nations that are also associated with the Hague Convention. It has been the subject of bilateral meetings between me and other justice ministers, where we have pending issues, and where we address, among other things. questions of the length of proceedings in the country where the child has been abducted. But it's a very big commitment for us to be able to react quickly. I believe that the apparatus is now – at least as I know it in the Ministry of Justice – reasonably streamlined. These websites also help you to quickly get a message. But the biggest challenge is perhaps when child abduction is about to happen, and we get reports to the police – and it's a journey that's going on. It is difficult to know if it is a vacation, or if there are attempts at childbirth. However, the national group that is set up — the national activity to take place — is established with a view to speeding up action by the police districts to effectively prevent child Abduction. So there are liabilities in both camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e429	Then there's no reason for any more lines for Jan Arild Ellingsen. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e434	One of the first single things I got into right after I started at Stortinget and took a seat in the Justice Committee was a meeting with a mother who had experienced having her child abducted. It was an incredibly strong meeting. She had not seen her child in many, many years. When the child was abducted, the child was a little boy. Now he had become a teenager. She had also not been able to talk to him very much on the phone. She had almost had no contact with the boy for a long, long time. It is clear that as a mother herself, and as a politician concerned with children's legal certainty, it was a meeting that made a very strong impression. It also shows how difficult this kind of thing is, because it is about people who are in an extremely vulnerable and vulnerable position. As both the case rapporteur and the Minister of Justice were involved, a lot of work has been done on these matters. I know that the Minister of Justice has had a very strong commitment to child abduction matters – not only in his time as Minister, but also when he was in opposition – and there were many examples of things that have been accomplished. One of the most important instruments we have in this type of case is international conventions such as the Hague and Lugano Conventions. This type of issue illustrates the importance of international tools in resolving criminal cases, as is the case here. The Hague Convention states that children considered illegally abducted shall be returned as soon as possible. I noticed that Ellingsen underlined the importance of the Hague Convention. I think there were very interesting signals from Ellingsen, because I noticed in connection with the National Meeting of the Advance Party that there were completely different notes from the party leadership when it came to the view of conventions. I think it is very reassuring that the representative Ellingen sees the value of international instruments as just conventions in working on these kinds of issues. Another issue that has been addressed here is the issue of contributions to children who have been abducted. I have met parents who find it difficult and who have to pay contributions for children they have not seen for a long time. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice signals that these are of the things you carefully consider. I have a personal sympathy for an arrangement where the parents still pay contributions, but that it is inserted into a blocked account that the child can dispose of on the day the child is returned to Norway. But I also agree with the Minister of Justice's view that there are difficult balances here. We must always take care of the child's best as the main priority, and I look forward to the matter coming back from the Minister of Justice. It's also one thing that the parents I've met clarify. They still want to contribute when the child is abducted, but that the money may be put into a blocked account. Then Ellingen raised the question of consultation. I want to clarify one thing. Although consultation on a case is not carried out, it is still possible, for all members of the Judicial Committee, to devote more time to meeting interested parties in a case. It did the red-green fraction. We conducted a major seminar on the very issue of child-removal issues on the basis of this Document No. The 8 proposal, and it gave us a much more thorough introduction around the problem than a hearing would give us. Because even if consultation is not organised, it is not impossible for the members of the Judicial Committee to spend time on it. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that it is again demonstrated so clearly in this room how strongly the commitment to children and children's legal certainty is. It seems to me that I have been leading for four years from all parties, and it also illustrates this matter. I am also very pleased with the strong commitment and the good work done by the Norwegian authorities – I have affected the police. I know it's working well, and it's a big focus on it in relation to foreign stations from the U.D. I also look forward to the further process of the work carried out by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e455	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e458	To the committee leader’s comment on consultation or not consultation, and seminar: My understanding of the Stortinget is that consultation is a formal tool that the committees can use. I re-register that the majority do not want it in this case, but rather say that it can have a seminar about each party. But it has something to do with the status and respect for the affected to do as I think you are taking quite easily, and that I am surprised at. I'll leave it, since the matter is settled and it's claimed that there's a lot of positiveness around it. So the committee leader also takes up the relationship to conventions. Yes, it's obvious: some conventions are more important to the Progress Party than others. We can take that debate, but not in this case, where, in my opinion, one should have the main focus on a parent who sits and has an empty nursery where he expected one of them to be. That is what this matter is all about, and I think we should have a greater focus on that. Another thing that I had hoped the Council of State would say something about, and that I didn't realize he did, is the claim of some parents of discrimination in the Nav system, considering how we treat fathers and mothers after the child's abduction. I have seen that one of the Council's colleagues has replied that the matter has been assessed, but did not find it appropriate to look at it. But I think it should be in everyone's interest to see if we actually have public systems that discriminate on the basis of gender. Even if there are a few cases, I would think that for a person who feels improperly treated, it is important for him to have this cancelled or confirmed. And if that's like that, what's the reason why we're doing that? I have a hope that if there is anything the Stortinget will catch up with, it is injustice and injustice to individual citizens. Although there are a few issues, one should do so out of respect for the actual ability to do so. So the last moment, that concerns economics. I think, as several others have thought, that economics is a key here. I have great respect for what the Council of State said. We have to make sure to have a system that doesn't hit the kids who've already been abducted twice. But it must then, with all possible respect, be as bad as having a system that sponsors the criminal. In some cases today, funds go to the parent who has actively committed a criminal activity in this country. That we're going to have a system that sponsors it, I wonder, and at the same time I'm very critical of it. I think we have to try to find a system where you probably have to use the office much more by assisting locally, but making sure that the funds go to the child and directly to the child's best. You have to avoid that a criminal is actually sponsored by the Norwegian state, and that a parent who is left here with an empty nursery is at the same time convicted and ordered to pay to someone who has stolen one of your girlfriends.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e469	The representative Dørum had a very good post, where he went straight into the heart of the matter and reflected on both what this matter is about, and how a total accumulation is concerned about it. We're all busy. I understand that the representative Ellingen is impatient. So are we. But pretending to be impatient at the same time he's making it like other people aren't, it's weird. We are at least as concerned that children who are being abducted must return to the parent as possible. We don't have to be hit to understand the pain of the one who's been hit. We don't even have to get our child abducted to understand what Ellingsen's representative was doing. As far as hearings are concerned, I will not underestimate the importance and formality of hearings. I respect that. Hearing is an institute that Stortinget has. But the committee leader, my colleague, was concerned that the red-greens had a major seminar on this, where they were in deep conversations with parents and with those who work with this every day. The most important thing is to get the right ones, the heavy ones, the deep and reflected recordings so that they can be applied, and so that we can use them to find good solutions. Finally, I fully agree with Mr Ellingen that no one is going to finance crime and the criminals. But at the same time, we have to remember one thing – and that's SV very concerned – that although the child is abducted and mother or father has committed a criminal act, the child is in the center. If the child is in Turkey, Vietnam, Morocco or Oslo, it is entitled to be entertained. The child has certain needs. These needs are to be met, and both parents have a responsibility. We have to have this important moment in the picture. Then we can look at how much it costs to entertain a child in, let's say, Pakistan, Turkey or Morocco in relation to Oslo. We can look at it, but we have to keep in mind that this child has certain requirements. It has to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e480	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3492]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e497	The size today handles the 2008 annual report from Stortinget's administrator, Document No. 4 for 2008-2009. It is important to point to the ombudsman's important function in an open, pluralistic and democratic society. According to Paragraph 75(l) of the Constitution and the Law of 22 July 1962 No. 8 is the Storting's task after each of the major options to appoint a person for a period of four years who will have access to the public administration and all those who work in this service, in order to seek to ensure that there is no injustice against individual citizens. According to Section 12 of the Act, an annual notice is to be sent to the Stortinget on the Ombudsman’s activities. That's who we're dealing with right now. This year, as in previous years, the Committee finds the annual report of the Ombudsman rich, informative and transparent. The number of cases committed by the ombudsman has increased somewhat in relation to previous years. In 2008, there were 2,469 complaints, while in 2007 the number was 2,126. The number of things that have become reality management has been stable, one must say, even though there has been a weak increase in recent years. 209 cases ended with criticism or call for new handling, while 110 cases were closed without the Civilo Ombudsman finding cause for criticism or call for new handling. The number of cases raised by the ombudsman was 23, which is a strong decline from 2007, when the Civilombodsman took up 41 cases on his own. The Committee is confident that the civilombudsman, although the trend in recent years has been that there are fewer and fewer issues he takes up on his own initiative, is conscious of his role: he supervises Norwegian administration and follows up on the issues where one does not follow good management practices, without any specific complaint to the ombudsman. The Committee has always been busy with the proceedings and considers that the civilombudsman has a strong focus on this, as it is particularly important for the individual complainant. It is also particularly important for the administration to deal with matters as quickly as possible, at the same time as handling should be defenceable. There is a great deal of scope in the cases the ombudsman gets to handle and what he takes up on his own initiative. In many of the cases dealt with by the ombudsman, there is often a telephone to the administrator enough to resolve the matter. This shows that the administration behaves fairly conscientiously and correctly. One might say that the system of administrators is successful, and it is important to facilitate the continuation and development of this system in line with a modern society. It is important that the Civilombodsman is given the job opportunities that lie in the intention to create the scheme of such an ombudsman. The Committee therefore does not consider it sustainable that documents such as the Civilo Ombudsman I believe are important will not be delivered at the request of the Ombudsman. As stated in the Law of 22 June 1962 No. 8, regarding Stortingets ombudsman for the trustee, according to § 9, second paragraph, the custodian has the obligation to tender. It is, therefore, unfortunate that a department does not follow the civilombudsman’s call to deliver various documents. The Committee feels that this, as I said, is unsustainable. We ask that Stortinget be informed about meeting such barriers in the administration. In this matter, we have now been involved in the Committee, given a special notice of addition to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The multiplicity of the committee has agreed not to handle this message for an existing period. We have the hope that the department will still turn around in this matter, according to what the committee has said in its comment, and what is contained in the special message that is now in the Stortinget. I would therefore like to encourage the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen to follow the call from the Civilo Ombudsman to deliver letters he asks for – that is in line with what the Committee says in its comment. I thought it was in place in giving praise to the caretaker for the work that was being done. The Committee, as I said, finds the annual report rich and informative and well structured. The annual message gives a very good picture of a number of different problem settings compared to different management areas, while at the same time it addresses the user's situation as the user's defaults in the practice of laws and regulations. Legislation is a dynamic process in which there will always be room for improvement, and annual reporting is a good tool for assessing how some laws and regulations work in practice. There shall be no injustice to the individual citizen. This is an important principle in a rule of law and an important basis for the Ombudsman’s control function. In the light of this, the Committee shall present its position on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e518	The rapporteur has made a good presentation of an overall committee position. I only have a few comments in addition. Nearly 2,500 complaints were submitted to the Civil Ombudsman last year. This is an increase of 14 pst. Almost half of all complaints are rejected on a formal basis. The number of complaints where the Ombudsman finds the basis for criticism was 209. It shows that just about 20 pst. of the complaints dealt with, it ends with criticism from the Civil Ombudsman. This picture has also been quite stable over the years. It is therefore appropriate to draw the conclusion that public administration is consistently maintaining high quality in its proceedings. I think that's good reason to pull out and enjoy. The statistics also show that about half of the complaints received by the Civil Ombudsman are manifestly unfounded. I think it shows that people are aware that there are complaints, and that the Civil Ombudsman's institution is well-known among people. It is also reassuring. A brief comment on, relating to the Committee's comment on the Civil Ombudsman's right of access: the Ombudsman shall not meet in his control of the administration, nor in relation to the transparency of documents relevant to a matter for consideration. However, there are documents such as: may be exempted from public access — not according to its content, but according to its nature. This type of document will not need to be seen by the Ombudsman in order to assess whether a refusal of access to the document is factually justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e529	The applicant’s rapporteur gave a relevant and comprehensive presentation of the Committee’s position on the Civil Ombudsman’s Annual Report for 2008. The attitude is unanimous, and from the Christian People's Party we join the summary of the rapporteur. What causes me to take the floor is the fact that the Civil Ombudsman has been denied a request to the Ministry of Oil and Energy to have a file delivered. The file for which transparency has been requested relates to a legal assessment by the Public Prosecutor, which the Ministry has requested in connection with an addendum. The Civil Ombudsman deals with a complaint from a person who has been denied access to that document. The Ombudsman then asks for transparency in the document in question, in order to then assess whether the refusal of access to documents by the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the complainant is appropriate to the law on disclosure and reasonable to a more public assessment. The Civil Ombudsman sent the case to Stortinget, and the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee received the case only yesterday, 9 June. Like the case rapporteur, I too, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, would like to stress the importance of giving the Civil Ombudsman access to the matters relevant to the performance of his important work. This is strongly underlined in Section 7 of the Ombudsman’s Act, which states: «The ombudsman may require from public officials and from all other servants of the administration the information necessary for the performance of his duties.» It must be stressed that the Ombudsman, as the Trustee of the Stortinge, is an independent and independent body with full professional secrecy to ensure that the administration does not infringe the individual citizen. It goes without saying that in order to carry out this work, one must also be able to require the right of access. On the other hand, as the previous speaker reminded us, there are rules on exemptions, which the Ministry of Oil and Energy refers to and justifies its rejection. If they so claim that the document in question may be exempted from publication, a department may refuse extradition. Sometimes it may be difficult to determine whether the exemption rule applies. We also understand that. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that the Control Committee should consider this matter in more detail. But as this will require a more comprehensive process than is possible now in ours, we realize that it can only happen at the beginning of the next major session. This was the Committee's assessment yesterday, and it is in line with our view. Therefore, whether it would be appropriate to take this into account as a control matter can only be decided by a new control committee during the next accumulation period. It will also be necessary in the event of a case for the new enlargement to assess whether it is also necessary to re-examine the exemption provisions in relation to the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e545	I have a few brief comments on the matter that several speakers have now commented on, namely this special communication from the Civil Ombudsman, which was received by the Control Committee at its meeting yesterday, i.e. just a few days before the roll-out session is over. This is a demanding and fundamental matter. This matter shall be dealt with with with with with caution in the Grand Duchy when it has not been dealt with by the Committee. The principle of the matter has also been discussed in the Committee in the past. When the Committee decided yesterday to postpone the matter until the autumn, it was of respect that this is a matter which requires more time than the Committee actually has at its disposal. The derogation is available there. The exemption provision is well justified and has been explained by the Ministry. That means that the committee has chosen not to do so without the thoroughness to which we should have time. There will then be a new control committee that will have the opportunity to go deep into this, if necessary. That is essentially what is my point: we have not dealt with this matter. That some parties can already decide on it, I accept so far. But I think, as far as the fundamental limitations of such a case are concerned, it is necessary – for a government needs to have internal working documents – that such a limit will be liquid. So the Civil Ombudsman has been rejected by the Minister of Oil and Energy, and the Department, on the basis of transparency. That is, of course, well justified by the exceptions contained in the law. This means that once the committee has taken the position that we have not started proceedings on this, it is out of respect that this is a demanding and difficult balance. It was really important to emphasise it, because it could almost seem that – especially on the chairman of the committee – it had already been concluded in this case. It is possible that the Progress Party has concluded in this matter, but the Committee has not. There will be a new Control and Constitutional Committee which will have to finalise this specific notification to the Storting. Let me also say that we would like to have the case dealt with this, there would have been time available. But when the Civil Ombudsman chooses to send this to Stortinget ten days before Stortinget separates, I believe that everyone understands that in the interests of responsible, proper proceedings, this cannot be done in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e554	I really don't understand that majority in the committee, and Øystein Djupedal, says there's been a lack of time. This question was submitted to the Enlarged Council's Control Committee almost a month ago. Then we sent some letters to the relevant State Council, and we evaluated in the committee whether we should open a case. So the theme and the issue, the Civil Ombudsman's right of access to the documents he believes he needs to be transparent in order to carry out the job he is charged with by Stortinget, has been well known for a long time. The other parties have had every opportunity to discuss the situation in principle. So the actual matter has been known for a long time. We had hoped that the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen and the Government – perhaps also the Prime Minister's office – would have made sure that we did not get into a situation where it was necessary, as the Ombudsman saw it, for him to give a specific notice to the Stortinget. So here we have a classic conflict, which often happens between one that's controlled and the controller. We have also discussed the fundamental question in the Stortinget regarding the Riksrevision. Should, for example: The Court of Auditors and the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy for the administration have a fundamental access to the documents they themselves believe they need to perform their control function, or should the controlled body, as a rule the departments, be allowed to say no to these documents themselves? It's this principle it's about. It has nothing to do with publicity, the public has nothing to do with this. This is about the controller. If we changed the general audit system and legislation applicable to businesses and businesses, so that companies could not allow their auditors access to documents for which they were afraid that the verifier would criticise, there would be a ramask empire throughout the Storting. But here we see that in terms of department, government and big business, you're willing to have a different system. It's not the Progress Party. We have repeatedly stated the purely principleal aspect: it must be the inspector who has full access to the documents the inspector considers necessary to carry out the verification. At the beginning of the correspondence with the Department, the Department interpreted it there that if the document in question were sent to the Civil Ombudsman, the document would be published. Of course, it's pointless. The Civil Ombudsman’s office has experience in handling both classified documents and certainly classified documents. This government also says that it wants more openness and publicity. Then I will challenge the Council of State Knut Storberget on the principle: Is it such that the Government is behind the wishes of the Council of State of Terje Riis-Johansen not to hand over to the Ombudsman of the Storting for the administration the document requested by the Ombudsman in order to assess whether this document can be exempted from the public or not? If the Ombudsman considers that this is a document which may and should be made available to the public under the public policy provisions, he will inform it that he will not publish the document. The Government will then again have the opportunity to assess whether or not they will bow to the Ombudsman’s opinion. The Ombudsman does not have the power to implement it; he has a right to pronounce, which will be given great importance by many. The Ombudsman now has no opportunity to assess whether this is a document covered by the exemption provisions of the Public Health Act or whether it should be disclosed under the Public Health Act. It is the Ombudsman who is the control unit, the control body, of the Public Service Act. There are fundamental conditions in order to be able to exercise the control function that is at stake here, and there should be no need for more time for proceedings. Either it is believed that it is the government, who might have a bad reputation if it supplied a document, and therefore would protect it from the public, who should have the opportunity to do so, or that there is a control body to assess whether it is within the law. Our position is clear: the document must be handed over to the Ombudsman. I do not understand that more time is needed to assess such fundamental questions, which have repeatedly been raised in the Storting and in all major groups in connection with the national audit report. There have also been two different interpretations of the exclusion clause relating to ombudsman law. The easiest thing to do is – given that there is doubt – to remove that derogation, so that it is really well established that the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the administration should have access to the documents he is asking for. There is also a question of government and big business. It is clear that if the Ombudsman of the Grand Duchy is refused a document that he wants and the majority of the population approves it, questions may begin to be asked whether it is the Grand Duchy that is the supreme body, or whether it is the government that is the supreme body. If the Stortinge assumes the obedience role that Ivar Skulstad stated, that when he believes that something is factually justified, and that it is to be exempted according to its nature, any government and any department can simply say that in our opinion this is a kind of document that we do not have to deliver. In this way, the departments are given considerable authority to exempt documents from public access because they do not like to have access to them. We are all aware of the pressure in all departments to get the most out of the disclosure law. So I would like to ask the Council of State Knut Storberget: Is he, as a representative of a government that claims to stand for publicity and control, satisfied that the Stortinget has now received a special message from his ombudsman saying clearly that he cannot get his job done because he is denied documents he needs in his work? Then it's Storting's job to make sure that we back up and support our own ombudsman, instead, as the majority is now doing, to postpone the matter, for someone's sake, and defend the Government, as Ivar Skulstad did. It would be interesting to get some principal views from the Council of State Knut Storberget on exactly these principal questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e588	As the last intervention, by the representative Hagen, well illustrates, this is a matter of disagreement between the Ombudsman and the majority of the Stortinge on restrictions on the Ombudsman’s right to obtain documents. It was very clear in correspondence between the Ombudsman and the Presidentship of Storting in dealing with the Ombudsman’s law, including the disagreement. referred to the second paragraph of Section 7, as requested by the Ombudsman. There were restrictions on his right to extradition. So you could say that this is kind of a rematch. I am open in itself to consider whether this specific case causes a review of the constraints, but it is this expansion that has determined, by majority decision, what the constraints should be. In this way, I think it is relatively premature to ask the same size to change meaning ten days before the four-year period expires. It does not, in the view of the Right, give rise to proper proceedings. I stress that we should be open to reconsider the exceptions, after practice can prove that the interpretation, for example. in this specific case, is too wide. I have looked at this matter, I have studied it, and I have taken no concrete position. But at first glance it may seem that the discretion of the ministry is somewhat rigid here, and that one may have confused the disclosure to the Ombudsman with general disclosure. I believe that the Council of State – the Council of State Storberget, which is present here – should consider whether there is a misunderstanding that is more widespread than only in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, for extradition to the National Audit Office and to the Ombudsman is something other than a general public desire. So I think you should consider that. But I absolutely agree that examining a document that came to the Storting yesterday and to the Committee yesterday, within ten days, is irresponsible in any case. It is clear that you can have a principle position – that I am always right, as the last speaker well stated. But to demand that the majority of that reason within ten days to re-test a decision taken by this magnification is enough in the driest of terms. But Document No. 4:2, Special notice from the Civilomebodsman, will receive a proper treatment in the big deal of which I hope will be a member.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e601	I am a little surprised that we are now dealing with a case, and that the Advance Party, I understand, almost on a principle basis, gives the Civil Ombudsman support. It is in many ways striking that a party that itself will not deliver a single of its internal working documents here in the house, neither to the Stortinget nor to others, is principled in terms of everyone else but itself. It's a cross of thought, I think. When, in addition, the majority does not justify this with the content of the case, but that the case requires proper proceedings, even it becomes obsolete – we can already do that, it is almost entirely possible to cast the vote here without committee procedure. I believe that this is also the case with a proper and thorough procedure for the Advancement Party, that the Department and others are allowed to discuss what they actually think about the matter, a reasonable principle, regardless of whether they have already concluded. That's why I have to say that the long tirad that Hagen had in place, which was kind of a principle approach, is with respect to report very little in principle. This limit may be difficult to draw. It is well possible that in this case the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not taken the course of balance well enough. I don't rule that out. But it is clear that any government needs to have documents that are part of the government’s work base, just as the Progress Party needs to have documents as part of the Progress Party’s work base. It's just like that. It is the nature of the policy, and it is also the nature of the administration. If you've made the balance sheet right here, I'm not going to decide. It will bring about a new enlargement and a new committee, subject to a responsible procedure and find out. That is what the majority position is. I am amazed at one more point, because when we dealt with this in the committee yesterday, the Progress Party did not take it. They had no dissenting views in the committee yesterday when we dealt with this matter. It is a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that has said that we are going to deal with this until the harvest. One can almost get the impression that both the committee leader and Carl I. Hagen have now taken this one in a way, and that they have made a great bride in the committee that this was very disagreeable to them. But that's the opposite. Everyone in the committee agreed that this matter was too late. We should have treated it, but unfortunately we didn't have time. Therefore, a new committee must address the matter for the autumn. But we didn't come to any conclusion. Because it is clear that any committee and any magnificence must be free to deal with the matter as they deem it appropriate. Let me also comment on the last point of Per-Christian Foss. I deliberately failed to include it in my first post, namely that this might seem like a rematch. That's right, but then we're back to the procedure we had for a few years ago, both in the committee and in the storeroom. I did not deliberately raise this point, but when the representative Foss says that it may seem premature for the Ombudsman to re-examine the same matter, there is a basis for emphasising it. This is a matter that the Stortinget has dealt with earlier in this session, and it is a countermeasure from the Ombudsman. I don't rule out a rematch being necessary, and you can find another balance point. But if the Ombudsman thought that this matter was actually so important that we should have a rematch in this session, I also think the Ombudsman understands that he must send the matter to Stortinget in time, not when the Stortinget is about to split up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e614	I was challenged by the representative Hagen at the end of his speech to come up with views on the more fundamental issues of these issues, at the same time as the introduction and to the extent that the challenge of the first part of the speech was very much on the specific matter where the Government, by the Minister of Oil and Energy, has taken a decision on the question of transparency. Let there be no doubt that the Government is behind such a view. I believe that the representative, Mr Djupedal, but also others in the debate, have had an idea of describing some of the dilemmas behind these assessments. It is therefore possible to be in favour of transparency in administration and, to some extent, elsewhere, whether in the internal documents of the Progress Party or for other important institutions, to want to produce a high degree of transparency, while at the same time calling around the exceptions that you actually have, not only against the Civil Ombudsman, but also in general within society in terms of transparency. I am of the opinion that if we are just to be able to contribute to a high degree of transparency in a society, it is important that we have clear, defined rules, where there is a need for exception rules for transparency, and that they are clearly practiced, and so far also an opportunity to state very clearly the reason why transparency is not practised. The principle of this round is, in my view, the question of the closest procedure to deal with such questions in the main hall. The government has taken its decision in the specific case. I'm behind that. When it comes to the question of the general rule picture, I think the representative Foss gave a good picture of it and of the process. There have been rounds of it, and several of us believe that it has been correctly concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e627	I just want to say that when the representative, Mr. Øystein Djupedal, goes to the pulpit and says that it was a consensual committee, and that the Progress Party did not take this one, I thought it almost seemed a little premature, too, when he so well knows that I said I was willing to take on the case-speaker job – which was natural – and that I was willing to make a draft comments, so that we could put forward a statement on Monday. But it's clear that with the kind of work we have in the committee, we don't use to do this. It happens very rarely. There have been a few occasions since the representative, Mr Djupedal, joined the committee, for approx. A year ago, but otherwise, we don't, because we recognize that when a multiple speaks, the multiple speaks. We have had that form of work in the committee. That was what I thought the representative of Djupedal should have noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e633	I did not really get a response from the State Council of Storberget to my main question. I fully agree with the Council's description of the disclosure law – that there will be exceptions in the disclosure law. It's quite obvious. I fully agree that there should be clear, defined rules of exception with good reasons. It's a sunny thing. This is the case, when some complaints that the public has been exempted from the rule of law that there is no exemption from the public are therefore not within these clear, defined exemption rules in respect of documents. And then you complain. The question then concerns the complainant, in this case the Ombudsman of Storting. Whether the Supervisory Officer of the Storting should have access to the document in order to assess whether the document in respect of which access has been requested is subject to the applicable exceptions provided for in the legislation and how the Ombudsman should be able to assess whether a document is covered by the clear, defined rules of derogation, unless the Ombudsman himself sees the document, is the case in principle, and I was not given an answer to that question by the Council of State of Storberget. The question is, if there is a disagreement between the controller and the controller, shall the controller have access to the documents that the controller himself considers necessary to carry out his work? There we have an absolutely clear answer: it is the controller who has to decide. It has nothing to do with publicity; it only has to do with the fact that the examiner must have access to the documents he himself considers necessary to carry out his clearly defined and legally required tasks. In this particular case, therefore, the Ombudsman is not given his statutory duties because a department refuses to provide the necessary basic material for the Ombudsman to carry out his statutory duties. The Ombudsman then briefed his superiors, i.e. The size, that he can't do his job because he doesn't get the necessary transparency here. I cannot believe that what the committee's chairman proposed in the committee, namely that he was the case rapporteur, because he is responsible for the Ombudsman. You could then have given the setting in this case on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e664	Odelstinget will consider proposals for amendments to the law on the control of intelligence, surveillance and security services later today. This matter that we are now dealing with concerns changes to the instructions of the same law. Much has happened since the Stortinget set out the instructions for the work of the EOS Committee in 1994. It is therefore appropriate to adapt the instructions to the reality of the day. While it is positive that the sample has initiated changes towards the Storting, it would be beneficial for such issues to be raised for the future through the Annual Report. The selection suggests a number of changes. Several of these relate to updating concepts and adaptations as a result of changes in laws, names and organisational changes. I will briefly explain the main points of the proposal. § 6 regulates the access of the secret services to require on-site minutes of any objections to the selection decisions on what to apply for access and who has access to submit subsequent protests. The proposed change means that the head of that service, in addition to the head of defence, is given the opportunity to submit subsequent protests. According to the applicable instructions, this right is limited to the head of defence and to the head of surveillance. The proposal is a natural adaptation of the legislation, to which an overall committee subscribes. Nor does the Committee object to an adaptation of conceptual use and updating with regard to terms proposed by the sample in Sections 8, 9 and 11 of the instruction. This also applies to the proposal to change the ‘Commission’ to the ‘committee’ in Section 12, which is a clean fix of past errors. Sections 1 and 14 regulate the issue of addition ratios and pay placement. According to today's legislation, this is the responsibility of the Presidency of Storting, while the responsibility for human resources is in practice assigned to the sample. It is natural that Stortinget still has control over the addition and pay placement of the secretariat director. The other staff, on the other hand, should be responsible for the selection and the legislation should be amended accordingly. The Committee takes the view that the Staff Regulations shall provide for an additional Council to deal with service matters. With the relatively brief secretariat of the EOS Committee at its disposal, questions may be asked about the need for such advice. The Committee would recommend a slightly different wording of the fourth paragraph of Section 1 and promote the following proposals: ‘Leader of the secretariat of the sample is added and paid by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy after the selection has been set up. The addition and salary allocation of the other staff in the Secretariat are carried out by the sample. Detailed rules on the procedure for the addition and access to the delegation of powers of the Board shall be laid down in a Staff Regulations to be approved by the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. The second subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to all members of the Secretariat.’.» The Committee has no comments on the other adaptations in Sections 1 and 14. The Skauge Committee, which examined the control of the secret services, provided that the selection of members of the sample required that members be given sufficient time to pay full compensation and that the selection was decisive when five members were present. The EOS Committee proposes to amend Section 2 of the instruction in order to require only four members in order for a decision to be taken, justifying the fact that the control is now more administrative in nature and that there are fewer major cases. An overall committee stresses that such an amendment would require an internal guideline which would ensure that controversial or fundamental issues would be postponed if fewer than five members were present. This is not a lucky solution, the Committee believes. It may be difficult to determine in advance which issues are perceived as controversial or in principle. The Committee therefore proposes that the requirement to participate five members be maintained. The committee also proposes that the instructions should allow the Secretariat further access to the preparation of inspections, other facts and investigations in individual cases. The Committee took note of the Ministry of Justice’s reference to: ‘that it may be a challenge to distinguish between technical inspection preparation and inspections themselves, and to prevent developments in which technical inspection preparations actually evolve into inspections, and to distinguish between the Secretariat and the sample’.» The Ministry of Defence has expressed similar counter performances. A single committee is opposed to the proposal of the EOS Committee to extend the secretariat’s powers and would stress the committee’s responsibility for ensuring that there is no doubt as to the accountability of the secretariat to the selection. For many years, cooperation between the sample and the services has been characterised by professionalism and clear role-sharing. It is important that no rules are established or that practices are established to this effect. I recommend the unanimous vote by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e704	Of course, I do not have anything to add to the rapporteur's excellent review, but at one point I still think there are some additional comments to be made. The committee has asked for some sort of simplified procedure by allowing fewer than five members when dealing with cases. The Committee unanimously voted against this. Let me underline the reason for going against, namely that the sample should be broadly political in nature. The EOS committee was born in conflict, as the Stortinget of course very well remembers. The background was the Lund Commission and the Lund Commission's detection of illegal surveillance of Norwegian citizens over many decades. The structure that we then found, namely the EOS Committee that controls the secret services, has become an example for too many countries of how to gain parliamentary control over what is, of course, to be secret and not public, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of citizens in order not to be monitored illegally. This broad policy mix of the sample has been important for the legitimacy of the sample. So I understand that in practice it's not so good to remember the long historical perspective of the EOS committee was born below, and that this meant that if someone is absent, you don't have to take it into account, but the case handler anyway. But it is important to stick to what the committee has done, and therefore it is very gratifying that there is a unanimous committee that rejects the proposal at this point, even if there are practical grounds from the sample to simplification – the broad political composition of the sample is important in dealing with these kinds of issues. Therefore, I am very pleased that the committee so unanimous and clearly stated in principle that it is the background, and the background is that this selection is born in conflict. The broad political anchoring is important, and the integrity of the broad political anchoring sample is precisely in this, that the different policy directions are represented in the sample. Otherwise, it is very gratifying, if I can allow myself to say so in the end, that the committee is once again unanimous in a matter of the EOS Committee. It shows that the work being done is firmly parliamentaryly anchored without political conflict, and that in itself is very pleasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e719	No more have asked for the word on case 4. [[Fotation, see page 3493]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e736	The EOS Committee carries out an important work on behalf of the Stortinget. Through the control of the sample, we ensure that monitoring, exchange of information or intelligence is contrary to the principles on which our society is based. A prerequisite for the proper functioning of secret services is that they have confidence in the population and in the political system. Therefore, the services must accept thorough control arrangements. It is important that the rules on control, its scope and content are clear and precise. The current update of the Stortinget Act will hopefully help to address weaknesses in the current legislation. As the rapporteur for the annual report of the EOS Committee for many years, I am pleased to note that cooperation between the sample and services has worked well in 2008. The present annual report is very comprehensive and detailed. A somewhat tighter production focussed on overarching and principleal issues would help to make the understanding of the business more accessible. The sample has carried out a total of 26 inspections in 2008, both in the central and external departments. The scope is in line with the assumptions for the activities of the sample. In the year that passed, the committee has dealt with 13 complaints against the police security service, PST, but without any of the complaints giving rise to criticism. The monitoring of PST archives and registers by the Committee is an important part of the operation. Any information which is no longer relevant shall be deleted. The subject archives and personal archives should also be updated and updated. The committee has addressed current issues related to registration and deletion in the PST work register. Among other things, there is the question of whether there should be an opportunity to retain information about a person after it has been deleted as an object. The Committee asks to be kept informed of developments in this area. The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the control of the use of coercive agents by the service in some cases has not provided grounds for criticism. When two or more services cooperate, clear rules of play are necessary. The current department is responsible for a clear regulatory framework so that there is no doubt about liability and procedures. The importance of the establishment having procedures to ensure that the course of action can be verified and verified cannot be strongly emphasised. An overall committee welcomes the development of its own guidelines for cooperation between the PST and customs authorities and that the corresponding guidelines are being drawn up for cooperation with the non-resident authorities. The Committee comments on the situation of an Afghan general who may have been involved in war crimes. I assume that the Committee will be briefed on the outcome of the investigations into the principal aspects of the case raised by the sample – similar in terms of the processing of data on persons associated with a religious site. The task of the EOS Committee to the National Safety Authority (NSM) is to monitor the compliance of the clearing cases with the legislation. The committee has had a complaint against NSM for treatment, but without this giving rise to criticism. It is positive that the procedures for handling the clearance of persons without a position in the Defence Security Department have now changed and that, in the context of the amendment of the Security Act, Section 19 will change the practice so that persons can be nominated for positions subject to subsequent clearance. Furthermore, the new procedures provided for by the Ministry of Defence and the National Security Authority to ensure that persons seeking access to classified material are given the opportunity to have a first-party refusal of access to classified material considered satisfactory. Since the matter was also commented on during the course of last year's treatment of the EOS Committee's annual report, I am surprised that the issue of the authorisation regime for U.D. staff has still not been resolved. A Joint Committee requests to be kept informed about progress. Furthermore, the Committee asks for a knowledge of how to resolve the uncertainties related to the role and mandate of the Defence Security Department and the working methods that the service can legitimately use to obtain information on security-threatening incidents. The Committee shall also monitor the Intelligence Service and ensure that the activities are conducted within a defined framework and that there is no injustice against any. The committee has received a complaint against the company, but has not found any grounds for criticism. The Committee has noted that the service has contributed positively to facilitating the control of the sample and that the control has not revealed any critical aspects. In summary, I would like to express great satisfaction with the work carried out by the sample, and with the positive way the secret services contribute to ensuring that the control body can operate in line with the Storting assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e774	Several have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e794	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e814	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e833	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e853	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3494]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e873	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e894	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e914	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e934	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e954	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3495]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e974	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e993	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1013	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1033	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1053	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1072	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3496]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1092	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1113	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1132	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1152	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1172	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1192	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1212	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1232	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1252	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1272	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1292	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1312	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1334	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1342	The size goes to voting in case No. 1–33.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1863	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to implement the necessary measures which will result in: 1st@item: inlistbox The State does not charge money on behalf of child abductors. 2nd@item: inlistbox Contributions from the co-operative Norwegian parent shall not be made available by the abducting parent on his or her behalf by placing children’s contributions under the administration of the head office. 3rd@item: inlistbox It will be possible to seize the assets of child-removalers in Norway. 4th@item: inlistbox To a greater extent, the police will be able to apprehend the deportees if they return temporarily to Norway. 5th@item: inlistbox Council for coordinated action between the relevant Norwegian parental assistance authorities who have abducted children shall be established.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1900	It was wrong. The secretary says that the voting card shows that we're too few in the hall. Let's try a new vote. The voting boards showed that 57 votes had been cast in favour of the Committee's vote and 16 votes in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 10.46.44]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e1911	Then we have to take a little break. – And then we can keep going. The error has been found, it was pressed in for vote in Odelstinget, and then it's going to be a different number. I'm glad that we who are in the Creation are given the opportunity to participate in the vote as well. Then we take the vote on case no. 2 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2154	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right of the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the annual police operational budgets are increased to cover the increased costs of electronic control in the event of a refusal of contact.’; The Christian People's Party must certainly support the proposal. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2175	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an assessment, against the obligations arising from the European Convention on Human Rights, in order to allow the use of electronic control even in criminal proceedings. Sweden’s experience will be of great importance in this assessment.’ The Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left are behind the proposal. The Left and Christian People's Party will probably support the proposal. - It's nodding. I have not been informed of any progress. - It's unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2200	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting discussing the consequences of increased doping use in society, including a broad review related to the issue of possible criminalisation of the use of doping.’ The Christian People's Party shall support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2221	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for national doping legislation.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2243	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up its own action plan to combat increasing negative body pressure and increasing incidence of eating disorders among boys.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2264	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The government is asking the Government to carry out a broad, health professional assessment of the effectiveness of measures to prevent HIV infection, with a particular focus on whether or not updated knowledge indicates that criminal law 2005 §237-238 actually works as a preventive measure and that any legislative proposals for changes are submitted to the Storting within a reasonable period of time.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2285	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to review and assess the Swedish legislation relating to the protection of minors with a view to the introduction of equivalent legal regulation in Norway.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2306	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments to be made so that the municipalities can introduce rules on the expulsion of people who are aggressive and annoyingly begging.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2327	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government requests the Government to take the initiative before the Court of Justice in order to ensure that clear and robust opinions of the Grand Duchy on the level of penalties are more widely made available to the courts.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2348	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to enforce criminal protection for unborn children and to come back with legislative proposals to address the issues in question.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2369	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the Revised National Budget, to explain the situation relating to the establishment of the entity that works on rape cases related to Kripos.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2390	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Council asks the Government to provide appropriate information on how it assesses the quality of the very important work done by aid lawyers in criminal and moral matters.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2411	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government is asking the Government to examine whether agencies other than the police may have limited powers of investigation in matters of financial crime and, at the same time, to submit proposals to the Government to regulate private investigations and private investigations in order to ensure that the necessary legal certainty is better ensured.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2432	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess whether the criminal penalties provided for in Section 274 of the Criminal Act 2005 should be further lifted.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2453	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The ruling asks the Government to investigate the English system of international alerts when paedophilia judges are going abroad and to consider proposing legislative changes to introduce similar arrangements in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2473	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The decision requests the Government to initiate the renegotiation of the Lugano Convention.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2492	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the penalty framework be raised to prison for 30 years, where it is declared 21 years under the law of the day.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2511	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system whereby, at the time of the first conviction of a criminal offence, the punishment shall be deemed to be discretionary throughout the criminal proceedings in the light of the gravity, the degree, the nature and the consequences for the victim. Where a criminal conviction has re-erwarded a deliberate criminal offence of the same nature or where the penalty framework has been in prison for more than 6 years, for which he has previously been convicted here in the kingdom or abroad, the penalty may not be lower than half of the ordinary criminal penalties imposed by the offender unless the offender himself decides otherwise. Where the person is convicted of intentional acts of the same nature or where the penalty framework has been in prison for more than 6 years, more than once before, the prison sentence may be increased by up to twice and shall not be lower than the ordinary maximum penalty imposed by the offender. The prison sentence may not be increased beyond 30 years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2530	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a change to the Penal Code so that the most serious criminal offences cannot be granted open acquittal and/or parole until four-fifths of the sentence are served and no open acquittal and/or parole shall be granted in cases of repetition.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2549	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 28 May 2009: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce, as a general strategy in the police, zero-tolerance and rapid fines for less serious crimes.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2570	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2009: ‘The Grand Government is asking during 2009 to submit proposals to ensure that hatred crime on the basis of ‘other status’ is protected by the same legal protection as other hate crime.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2591	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2009: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate the follow-up to the law on criminalising sex purchases with research and evaluation, so that the Storting may be brought before it on a case by case basis after two years of operation of the law.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2612	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out, within 3 years, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the lifting of the minimum penalty in rape cases and that qualified sexual acts with persons under 14 years of age are automatically considered as rape.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2633	A vote is taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left from the meeting of the Odelsting on 28 May 2009: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative amendments to be made so that the municipalities can introduce rules on the expulsion of persons engaged in aggressive and shameful sales and begging.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will support the proposal. The President assumes that the Right too will support the proposal – it is nodded.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2654	A vote is taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left of the Odelstinget meeting on 28 May 2009 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 73):]] The party of progress, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2675	A vote is taken on the proposal by the Depositary Representative Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left of the Odelstinget meeting on 28 May 2009 [[SEPOL]] The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2697	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 May 2009. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 73):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2716	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 28 May 2009. [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 73):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-10.ana.ud2379e2740	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
