ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e36	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Siri A. Meling, has taken the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e41	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Gjermund Hagesetter, Ulf Leirstein and myself on the exemption from taxes on wealth managed by the Superfiche.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e46	The representative, Kari Lise Holmberg, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e49	I will, on behalf of the representatives Bent Höie, Erna Solberg and myself, present a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce the influx and increase the deployment of groundless asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e54	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e57	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the great-grandparents Sonja Irene Sjøli, Inge Wohnning, André Oktay Dahl and myself, to propose the introduction of mandatory site-of-death studies in the event of sudden infant death.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e62	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e65	I have the pleasure on behalf of representatives Lars Sponheim, Trine Skei Grande, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself to present a proposal for a representative to wash Norwegian legislation and administrative arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e71	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e85	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e101	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e112	A number of the Trade Committee argue that the Services Directive should be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The aim of the Services Directive is to simplify the trade in services, remove unnecessary barriers to trade, make it easier to establish a company, increase consumer protection when purchasing services and create more jobs. With our open economy, we depend on the functioning of international trade, so that we can secure high employment and value creation. That's what we build our welfare on. From the Norwegian side, we are lighters with common rules governing trade and services. This is particularly important for all Norwegian companies operating in an international market. Unlike many other EEA countries, Norway has a relatively small bureaucratic system for foreign companies that will perform services here. This means that the changes which the Directive will bring about in Norwegian legislation are relatively limited. But it is worth noting that administrative simplification will make it easier for Norwegian companies operating in other countries that are much more bureaucratic. They may include: are used by the national contact points that are now being established. Service industries are also growing here in the country, and an increasing proportion of value creation takes place before this sector. We are concerned that our business life should not be discriminated against by the fact that they are subject to rules other than those of business in the countries with which we trade. The Services Directive will contribute to this. It is worth noting that the market availability of service providers is already there because of the EEA Agreement. This means that the right of establishment and the free movement of services have been in Norwegian law since 1 January 1994. So the Services Directive does not introduce any new rights, but regulates the dishes that are already there. In the debate on the Services Directive, there may have been more focus on the issues that are not regulated by the Directive than on those that are actually regulated. This applies, for example: social dumping. The Services Directive expressly states that this Directive does not regulate labour law rules. In spite of this, many people are concerned that the directive will lead to more social dumping. But it is the broadcasting directive that regulates what can legally be required by labour law rules for posted workers. The government’s important work against social dumping in the labour market will continue independently of the Services Directive. This is important for the Workers' Party. It is also important to be clear that the Directive does not affect how we organise and finance public services. State and local authority shall still be able to determine whether services are to be privatised or put off for competition. The directive also does not require us to abolish monopolies, and it does not prevent us from recommunerising privatised services if we wish. Never has a directive been so thoroughly dealt with and distributed. Many claims have been made about the Services Directive, but after that concerns have been rejected. There are actually nine external statements about the matter. The LO has asked four key questions about the Directive. In the open hearing held by the Committee on the matter, LO concluded that they are satisfied with the signals given by the Government on the matter. The government has drawn up a statement that underlines that our ambitious policy against social dumping will be continued. The working party would never have agreed to include the Directive in the EEA Agreement if we were unsure about these key issues. Norwegian companies compete in the EU in a number of areas, thanks to the EEA Agreement. Among other things, this applies to architectural services, technical consultancy and consultancy services. The Services Directive will provide our businesses with better opportunities to compete for service missions in EEA countries, while making legislation more careful and effective than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e133	The Services Directive has had a long and winding road before it has finally arrived at treatment today. A wide range of investigations and consultations have been carried out prior to the examination, as well as the fact that the Business Committee itself has carried out its own hearings and asked the Government a number of questions to clarify the impact of the Directive. There are few issues that the Business Committee has been dealing with, which are subject to such a nine-time review, and now it is time to conclude in the case. The parties which, for ideological or other reasons, are opposed to the Services Directive will always find reasons in the matter on which they can point to justify to their electoral groups why they adopt a position that could, in the utmost consequence, weaken the whole EEA Agreement. I am sure that we now have the best starting point for assessing the significance of the directive for Norwegian legislation and working life, and based on this information, the Progress Party is entering into the EEA Agreement to include the Services Directive. We cannot see that, based on the information we have been given or obtained in this matter, there are challenges with the directive that will lead to major negative consequences for Norwegian society. Unlike the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, we see the opportunities offered by the directive for Norwegian business and the opportunities for new Norwegian jobs. The Services Directive proposes to remove national barriers to increased trade in services and to facilitate access to foreign markets. This will give Norwegian service providers a level playing field in a market that is significantly larger than the domestic market. Norwegian enterprises and workers who already provide high-quality services today will in many cases be competitive with service providers in other countries and will, through this Directive, have the same framework conditions in the host countries as those given to national companies. The Services Directive is also important because it contributes to promoting increased competition in a number of areas. And increased competition helps to increase the quality of service providers. In this way, the Services Directive will help to increase the supply and quality of customers and users, as well as contribute to increased innovation in the service segment. Increased cross-border trade has contributed, throughout all years, to increased prosperity for the parties involved and strengthened the possibility of strengthening the democratic rights of the population. We, as a rich country, should not cultivate protectionist thinking goods to keep foreign players away from the Norwegian market. We are a country that benefits most from the positive effects of free trade, and should therefore also offer market access to foreign companies that see business opportunities in our market. Together with well-developed EU countries, we can help lift a number of former Eastern bloc countries out of poverty by improving access to our markets for their businesses. It is also the case that, due to demographic developments in the future, we will be dependent on foreign labour to make the wheels of society go around. That some of this labour comes in the form of foreign companies is a natural continuation of the globalisation we are already in. We are not afraid that the work against social dumping will be weakened by this directive and will refer to our past commitment and proposals for just meeting that challenge. We alone, or together with the other opposition parties, have proposed a number of concrete and targeted measures to strengthen this work. It is not surprising that the parties of government, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, are taking this one on this matter. But what's surprising is the reason they're saying for this, because it's not ideological. The Government Parties do not rely on the investigations and assurances submitted by their own representative from the Government to the Committee. The Minister of Industry's assurances that, inter alia: LO's claims and interests in this matter are met, not good enough for the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. This can only mean that there is a crisis of confidence among the parties in the government, which is a sensational thing for a government that asks for renewed confidence from the voters. The principle underlying the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party here, despite the assurances given by the Minister of Industry to the Committee, is not a good enough argument to oppose the directive. Such a leading attitude in matters where one cannot guarantee for all consequences, will over time lead to a total paralysis of action in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e156	The EU's internal market has been important for trade between European countries and thus for the welfare of Europeans and the Nordics. But in recent years it has become clear that the internal market needed adaptations to the modern economy. While the service sector stands for 70 pst. of value creation and employment in Norway and EU countries, services represent only 20 pst. of trade between countries in the internal market. At the same time, in the service sector, the large majority of new jobs are created, both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. The Services Directive is therefore about making the internal market relevant to future value creation; a goal Right is fully at the back of it. With our very limited domestic market, it would be a deadline for future welfare development and growth if self-storage were to be ambition. The Services Directive is, in essence, not very far-reaching. There are few or no substantive legal changes to the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of services. That Directive is about removing obstacles to those wishing to provide services in another EEA country. The Norwegian service market is already relatively open. Foreign service providers wishing to participate in the Norwegian market face few obstacles. For Norwegian enterprises, several are worse than others who want to provide services in other European countries. The need for national authorisation or certification may make it expensive and complicated to enter these markets. The Services Directive helps us to get rid of such obstacles. In other words, Norway has a lot to earn and little to lose on the Services Directive. Right wants to facilitate future value creation. We do not then have to put any obstacles in the way of Norwegian companies wishing to invest and provide services in other EEA countries. We are concerned that our business life should not be discriminated against by being confronted with rules other than business in the countries with which we deal the most. It must be just as easy for Snow Hats to sell their architectural services as it is for Ekores to sell Stressless in other European countries. That is why the Right has been committed to supporting the Services Directive. For the Right, it has been encouraging to see how misleading and irreparable the public debate on the Services Directive has been. Claims that the Directive would lead to the privatisation of municipal services and extensive social dumping have been thoroughly refuted by the external investigations ordered by the Government. The right is concerned with preventing social dumping, but will point to the fact that social dumping is already taking place in Norway today. It is important to provide effective means of preventing social dumping, too often it appears that the Government prefers, instead, purely symbolic policies. The right will warn against some of the measures that the Government has opened up for use, such as the publication of collective bargaining agreements. The important thing in this debate is to ensure good pay and working conditions for foreign workers. By requiring the application of the Public Procurement Act, free contract law is violated and there is no competition for remuneration. This weakens the business environment and contributes to less flexibility for workers. We have noted the unilateral declaration that the Government has now presented. It appears essentially as a symbol measure. Strong and effective supervision of employers is the best way to avoid social dumping. This is also why the Right in our alternative budgets has proposed for several years to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. It is also regrettable that the government parties rejected the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left to draw up a checklist for contracting entities in order to ensure sound pay and working conditions for subcontractors. The forces that want to stop the Services Directive have talked a lot about four recent judges from the European Court of Justice. The judgments in the Viking Line, Laval, Rüffert and Luxembourg cases have been widely discussed, and it has been argued that their removal of discriminatory labour and tendering rules demonstrates how the Services Directive will work. But they don't. The judgments are not based on the Services Directive, for the simple reason that the Directive has not yet entered into force. On the contrary, the Services Directive will place a stronger political framework on the interpretation of the ECJ and on the political framework on which the European trade union movement has had a major influence. After actively participating in the debate on the Services Directive, we can now conclude that the campaign for the application of the right of reservation was actually aimed at weakening the EEA Agreement. The right view of the EEA Agreement as a vitally important agreement for Norwegian business, and we are very critical of putting the EEA Agreement at risk in this way. The right has been critical that the government spent so long preparing this matter. Four consultation rounds have been carried out, in addition to six external investigations. This is perhaps the most thorough case-by-case preparation of some EEA cases – and all for a directive that leads to so few legal changes. That being said, the Right is pleased that the majority of the Government has finally taken a clear position on the Services Directive. The fact that the Government was divided into 10/9 in the treatment of the Services Directive is a good illustration of how difficult EU and EEA matters are for the Stoltenberg Government. Of course, this is also the main reason why the handling of the case has taken so long. We are pleased that there is now a broad majority in Stortinget that supports the inclusion of the Services Directive in the EEA Agreement. The internal market has been good and important for Norwegian value creation for many years. Now we make the internal market also relevant to the new jobs created, those that are more about providing services than exporting goods. We have ambitious and competitive companies that want to compete. Now we're in on making that possible. The inclusion of the Services Directive is not one day too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e182	Today we are going to deal with the EU Services Directive. After all the sun brands have been judged, the majority in this Chamber will decide to incorporate the Services Directive into Norwegian law. It implies that Norway accepts a Directive which may undermine the fundamental rights of workers. We will not be in favour of such a decision in SV. It is not everyday food that we take this one in the government, but it was therefore SV that had to do in this case. There are several reasons why we believe that Norway should say no to the EU Services Directive. One important reason for this is the risk of social dumping. The objective of the Services Directive is to increase competition. It will in turn increase competition between workers who are required to provide the services. Survived, this competition will lead to social dumping, not least in a labour market where millions are unemployed and the differences in wages and working conditions are enormous. In addition, competition is increasing in the areas of employment, the number of people with neither collective agreements nor trade unions. Social dumping in such a labour market is entirely out of the question. In order to avoid social dumping, it is therefore necessary to adopt rules prohibiting social dumping. Unfortunately, that is not what is happening in the European Union at the moment. What the European Court of Justice prohibits is funds in the fight against social dumping. The Court of Justice has inter alia: ban on boikott – the instrument of Swedish trade union movement used to ensure the Swedish collective bargaining agreement for Latvian workers in Sweden. A German State, Lower Saxony, which would avoid social dumping in the context of public tenders was not allowed to do so by the European Court of Justice. Both in these cases and in several others, the European Court of Justice facilitates social dumping. It is those who want orderly conditions in their working life who are hindered in their work. It is true that the new practice of the European Court of Justice has taken place before the Services Directive has entered into force. Säl whether the decision of the Court of Justice is an interpretation of other provisions of the EEA Agreement, inter alia: the so-called Posting Directive will also have implications for the Services Directive. One of the reasons for this is that the Posting of Workers Directive is in front of the Services Directive. Thus, there is nothing in the Services Directive that helps to reduce the negative effects of EEA legislation today – on the contrary. The introduction of the Services Directive will lead to an increased risk of social dumping. Another problem is that it is not clear when a service is covered by the Directive. Sometimes the content of the service is crucial. In other cases, the provider of the service is not least whether it is public or private. In a third case, the law governing the service may be the law. I fear that we can get into a situation where services we are adopting today are not covered by the directive, later it turns out to be. In that case, it will not be the first time that the EEA Agreement proves to have consequences other than those proposed at the time of its adoption. One of the main features of the EEA Agreement is that the room for interpretation is too large. It will be up to the EFTA Court to set the limits, not the elected representatives. It's a fundamental challenge for the government. In order to ensure political governance, there is therefore a need to clarify the rules to which the Court of Justice has to deal. At the loss, I would like to address the question of a joint declaration. The need for a joint declaration is precisely in order to clear up the uncertainty of the road, not least the uncertainty raised by the LO. There is cause for concern when the EU does not want to participate in such a general declaration as the one put forward by Norway. It clearly shows that the EU does not take the problem of social dumping seriously. Norway has a contractual right to reserve itself against EU provisions so that they do not become part of the EEA Agreement. This is a good opportunity to use that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e201	Let me tell you right away: This has not been an easy matter to decide on. I have a great deal of understanding of the many who are sceptical about and uncertain about this directive. I can assure you that on the part of the Christian People's Party, we have not taken the matter lightly. We have had our own meetings with central representatives of the Norwegian trade union movement to ensure that we have the best possible picture of how the directive will affect Norwegian workers. The Christian People’s Party has also addressed questions to the Government in order to clarify whether it is sure that the Directive will meet the requirements of the LO on its consequences, as confirmed by the Government in the State Council of Sylvia Brustad’s letter to the Committee of 6 March 2009, as set out in the vote. The aim of the Directive is to simplify trade in services in the EEA area and make legislation in this area better and more predictable than is currently the case. Norway has a small, open economy that relies on international trade to maintain high employment and value creation in the country. The EU is Norway's largest trading partner, and over 80 pst. of all Norwegian foreign trade takes place with our EEA partners. Increased trade in services is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in the majority in the service sector. The Directive deals with one of the four freedoms of the Treaty of Rome and is therefore a central part of the EEA Agreement. The Christian People's Party, like the majority of the Norwegian people, is a member of the EEA Agreement. If Norway had not joined the Directive, there could be concerns about the EEA Agreement and uncertainty for Norwegian jobs throughout the country. This is of great importance to the Christian People's Party. We do not want to risk this important agreement for Norwegian business and for Norway as a nation. At the same time, we have always placed the emphasis on ensuring that the directive does not lead to social dumping and that the four requirements of the LOs directive must be met. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has established these letters to the Committee of State Council Brustad, where, among other things: is: ‘The Directive does not preclude the Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation. [[...]] [[...]] The aim is to adopt, in the context of the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement, a declaration that there is no obstacle to pursuing an ambitious policy against social dumping when the Services Directive is incorporated into the EEA Agreement. [[...]] The statement will specify, inter alia, that the Services Directive does not affect the tripartite cooperation between employees, employers and the government, the publication of collective agreements, or the power of the State to determine the extent to which services are to be performed by the public or subject to competition. It follows from what has been said above together with the statement that the government is confident that the items indicated by LO are respected.» [[...]] The Christian People's Party has noted that the Government did not reach a joint declaration with the EU, which meets the requirements of the LO. It updates the Christian People's Party's proposal that this case should be re-examined in Stortinget if LO's claim is not met. I would therefore like to challenge the Council of State and the Government to give a clear answer here in the Stortingen today as to whether the Stortinget can expect the European Commission in the EEA Committee to agree on the content of the declaration that Norway has drawn up. It's important for our vote, and I see from the comments made by LO, that it's very important for them as well. If the Government can confirm this, I would ask, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that the proposal announced in the motion for a new reading in the Stortinget should be converted from a substantive proposal to a transmission proposal. If the Government cannot confirm this, we will maintain our proposal that the matter be resubmitted to the Storting, and ask that there be a vote on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e223	The representative Dagfinn Højbråten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e226	In particular, there are two key elements to the inclusion of the Services Directive, namely – at least for our part – that in Norway there are Norwegian pay and working conditions and that in Norway there are Norwegian, democratically elected authorities, in cooperation with the professional organisations, who are to lay down rules and laws related to them. This is, in our opinion, on a collision course with what is the overall principle of the Services Directive, namely that EU law should apply in these areas. EU law is known to be determined by EU bodies. Norway shall not participate. If Norway had participated, we would have made up a disappearing little part of what it takes to create a majority. It is also the case that the whole dynamics of the Services Directive are aimed at just increasing trade, increasing the exchange of services and increasing competition between countries in order to be able to compete on wage and working conditions in different countries. Furthermore, many here today have raised access to the EU market as an important point to support the inclusion of the Directive. The parties agree that access to markets is important. However, it is also important to stress that there are other approaches than the EEA Agreement. We're interdependent. Well, the EU is a major recipient of Norwegian goods and services, but it is worth noting that there are goods and services on which the EU is heavily dependent. We export almost as much oil and gas to the EU as Russia does, and Norway has no reason to stand by and say: please, we can export this oil and gas. We need to recognise what is our strategic position and be bold enough to stand firm on Norwegian demands and Norwegian interests. Trade with the EU also increased between 1972 and 1993, when we had a free trade agreement. We also know that Switzerland, in the heart of Europe, has achieved much of the same thing as Norway, but with a completely different agreement and a completely different dynamics than what we have chosen through the EEA Agreement. So it has to end this black and white approximation, where the EEA Agreement is being produced as the only rewarding and the only solution for our relationship with Europe. One of the reasons for this is that the Committee in its opinion determines that the rules in force in the Member State of establishment apply. It is also the basis for the Directive – harmonisation and transnationalisation of legislation. We agree that this is the intention of the directive. Our conclusion, therefore, is that we take theses in government and recommend that Stortinget vote against them. It is almost more obvious that parties such as the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party recognise that this is the case, but still choose to vote for the inclusion of the Directive. I think that these parties thus assume a great responsibility. It is also true that, in our view, the majority is undermining the dynamics of the EEA Agreement. In any case, the guarantees given by this interlocutory body at the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement in 1993 have proved to be non-conform. To give some examples, it was guaranteed that the fall-back institution would be excluded. The differentiated employer fee should not be affected. The position of the wine monopoly in Norwegian society should not be affected. And property issues in Norway should not be affected. So history has shown that all these issues have not only been affected but also changed and challenged by EU law through a very dynamic EEA agreement. It is therefore alarming that the majority say that this is no problem. One-sidedly, this is not a problem and guarantees that Norwegian law and Norwegian labour and pay conditions will remain in Norway for all time. History shows that the majority are wrong about this point. Once again, a great responsibility is assumed. With regard to the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party is not going to support it because it has a wording stating that there is some kind of withdrawal period in the EEA Agreement: if you do not like the outcome, you can review it. Of course it's not like that. This is one-way. If we implement this directive, we will leave governance in this area to bodies other than the Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e247	For the Left, the Services Directive also represents an important step towards the knowledge society. There is knowledge and competence that will be Norway’s foremost competitive advantage in the future, and the Services Directive will facilitate the export of Norwegian goods and knowledge. Not all cases have been subject to as thorough assessment and impact assessment as the EU Services Directive. The conclusions for Norway are clear: the Directive will have consequences, if any, for workers in Norway and for the consumer rights of our citizens. The left agrees with the EU Services Directive. The background is that we already have good worker protection and strong consumer rights. The intense anxiety of the Senterpartiet and SV for more social dumping should be taken seriously, but – as many people have pointed out – social dumping is a problem we also have today, and as there is a broad political consensus that we should work against. In addition, the Left has been concerned that the Services Directive applies only to public services of an economic nature. Social services covered by health legislation or by social legislation are also excluded from the Directive as a result of derogations from the Health and Social Services Directive. What is important in the future is that municipalities now get a thorough knowledge of what the Services Directive will have to say for their activities, so that they are confident that they can continue the modernisation of the public sector and give their citizens their good offers. The opposition to the Services Directive of SV and the Senterpartie appears in many ways to be strange. The left considers that there is little doubt that the directive will lead to clear improvements in other European countries. In solidarity with the workers in these countries, there is every reason to be in favour of the directive. In addition, when the Directive is positive and necessary for our large and growing service industries, the Left does not doubt that Norway should incorporate it. In 2006, the Stortinget addressed a position of the Labour and Social Committee on the transitional arrangements for workers from the new EEA countries. Here the Government went in to maintain the transitional arrangements, because the Norwegian labour market was not mature to be fully opened up to all EEA citizens. Fear of more social dumping was also used as an argument. The left and right were the only parties who thought that the transitional arrangements should be removed and that, at the same time, work on social dumping should be intensified. As from 1 May 2009, the transitional arrangements, with the exception of workers from Bulgaria and Romania, shall cease to exist. The strange thing about this is that the SV and the Centre agree to open the labour market to all EEA citizens, with the exception of Romanians and Bulgarians – despite their fear of social dumping. In order to follow the range of policy decisions, the SV and the Centre now believe that, with the two exceptions, all EEA citizens will now have equal access to the Norwegian labour market. This must mean that the Norwegian labour market has matured significantly in terms of social dumping since 2006. The Services Directive, on the other hand, – as we understand the views of the Centre Party and the SV – will exacerbate the ability of foreign workers to achieve the same pay conditions as those of the Nordics. This is going to be hard to understand. Labour law is not affected by the Services Directive. It can be speculated whether the work against social dumping is an effort to prevent competition for wages and salaries, and not to ensure good conditions for foreign workers. In solidarity with workers in other countries and as a handshake to our service industries, the Left says yes to the EU Services Directive. The left also believes that it is important that our business life should not be discriminated against by the fact that it is subject to rules other than those of the countries with which we have the most trade. Norway has an open economy. We therefore rely on the functioning of international trade – in order to maintain high employment and value creation even in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e273	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to include the Services Directive in the EEA Agreement, because it will help to ensure that Norwegian companies are not discriminated against, as has also been said by the pulpit here today. The Services Directive will ensure that Norwegian businesses are not confronted with rules other than those in the countries with which we deal the most. As a small country and with such an open economy, Norway is totally dependent on being able to trade with other countries in order to maintain high employment and high value creation. I note that the representatives of the Committee of the Socialist Left and the Centre are concerned that we cannot maintain our high ambitions in the fight against social dumping and that the public sector will no longer be able to provide basic social services. I do not think that is the basis for these concerns. The first provision of the Directive states that it does not affect labour law, the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce collective agreements and the right to work. This implies that the inclusion of the Services Directive in the EEA Agreement is without prejudice to the Government's action plan against social dumping. The first provision of the Directive also states that the Directive does not affect the organisation and financing of public services by Member States. This means that Norwegian authorities, for example: a municipality may decide whether services are to be privatised, put out of competition or recommunerated. This is one of the reasons why it is not possible to provide a full overview of the services covered by the Directive, as requested by the members of the SV and the Central Party. Hardly any directive has been so thoroughly investigated before inclusion in the EEA Agreement as this Services Directive. Among other things, we have had a working group of representatives from all the departments involved who have assessed the impact. Four public consultations on the Directive have been held in Norway. It comes in addition to what has happened in Stortinget. Furthermore, the Government has obtained a total of nine external investigations into the Directive. All investigations into the Services Directive carried out by the Government, both internally and externally, conclude that the Directive will not have negative consequences of importance for Norway. The representative asked for the statement. First of all, I am confident that the Services Directive does not prevent the offensive work against social dumping and that it does not affect the possibilities to solve social tasks through the public sector. We will make a statement on this in the EEA Committee. We have good points of view that the Commission agrees with the content of the declaration and that this will be confirmed in the EEA Committee. The statement is largely based on the four points contained in the letter of hearing from LO. The LO has been kept continuously orientated, and we believe there is a good understanding between the LO and the Government. It is already open to providers to establish themselves in another EEA country or to sell cross-border services. It follows the EEA Agreement on a maritime basis. The new feature of this directive is that it will now be easier. It is possible to find information on the rules in force and to apply for the necessary permits via an Internet-based contact point in the country where a person wishes to operate. It is also new that authorities are now required to cooperate on supervision. The service industries in Norway are growing rapidly. It accounts for an increasing share of employment and value creation in our country. It's always important, but it's especially important now. The Services Directive will both simplify and improve market opportunities for Norwegian enterprises in Europe, with positive effects on jobs, value creation and competitiveness, and to keep even more people in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e293	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e296	I'm one of the biggest representatives who still have some critical remarks about the Council of State and the barn, so the times the Council of State deserves commendation, I'll make sure she gets it. I think, among other things, that she has now done a very good job of responding to the questions raised in this difficult case — both good, full and informative. So that rose is to be given to the Council of State. In the post of SV’s representative, Inge Ryan, he said that we are now accepting a directive that undermines employees’ rights. It's a pretty strong claim. I therefore wonder, on the basis of the assurances we have already received from the Council of State, whether there is any new information that weakens the guarantees that the Council of State has already given to the Committee that the Services Directive does not weaken employees' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e303	First of all, thank you for good words and also for good cooperation with the Committee on a demanding matter! No, there's no new information. The Workers' Party is simply in disagreement with the SV and the Centre's Party as to how this will affect employees' rights. What is quite clear is that the Services Directive does not prevent the work being done against social dumping, which is important in this context. What is certain is that the public service institution can be further developed and developed. What is also certain is that national governance in key areas of society can be maintained, as we have explained, and that the Services Directive does not affect national labour law issues. So I don't think this is in any way a part of undermining employees' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e310	In contrast to the government's partners – SV and the Central Party – I choose to believe what the council says from the Parliament's pulpit, and the government has blackened the Storting both in the proposition and in the exchange of letters. I am also pleased with what the Council of State is now saying, that she has good points of view that the Commission will agree with the clear Norwegian draft declaration that has been prepared, that the LO is continuously orientated, and that they are in good agreement with the Government on its handling. There remains a question for me, and it is whether the Council of State can confirm that the Storting can expect this consensus with the Commission on this declaration to be reached in the consideration of this Directive in the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e317	Let me first say that I am pleased that the Christian People's Party also supports the inclusion of this directive. As far as the statement is concerned, as I said before, and as the representative of the Højbrätten now repeated, we have good points of view that the Commission will support it. This ‘consensus’ – which was the expression used by the representative – I believe we will confirm in the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e324	The EEA Agreement was adopted by the Stortinget on 16 October 1992. In connection with the adoption of the agreement, SV had a question for the then Minister of Commerce Bjørn Tore Godal. Reservations were made to different Directives of the EEA Agreement. At that time, Bjørn Tore Godal replied, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, if we are faced with a directive in the EEA context, which involves, in a fundamental and important and central way, the crushing of our national opportunities to care for our own interests, we say no. This isn't dramatic. EC cooperation is also full of episodes where heavy Member States say no.’ I want to ask Sylvia Brustad the questions: does Sylvia Brustad share the opinion of Bjørn Tore Godal that it is outrageous to say no to an EEA directive? Will the Council of State provide examples of a type of directive where it may be appropriate to say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e334	The Working Party believes that this Services Directive is important for Norway. We believe that this is important for Norwegian jobs. We believe that it is not contrary to what I feel that the government parties are fully in agreement on, namely to respect the rights of employees on all the points we are going to. So today I do not have any views on what directives there might be in the future to say yes or no, but we believe that this is basically good for Norwegian workers, for Norwegian jobs and for value creation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e341	This case has had a very interesting development. The demonstration in front of the Parliament of the Government's own supporters against the Government's policy has now been moved into the main hall. It's an interesting move. In its observations and in its proposal, the Council of State has explained the importance of this matter for Norway and for Norwegian business. I could imagine that the Council of State used the one minute she has, to say a little about the consequences it would have for Norwegian business if the Senterpartiet and SV had got a majority in the Government to say no to the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e348	It is no secret that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have had different opinions on this for a long time, and we also tolerate that disagreement well. When, for our part of the Workers' Party, we believe that this is important, it is primarily because we are a small country with an open economy that is totally dependent on being able to trade with other countries in order to maintain value creation and employment. It's always important, but it's especially important now, when we're in a difficult time due to the financial crisis. When it can be combined with the respect of fundamental rights, which we are also very concerned about, we believe that this is important. And I think it would have been demanding for the value creation in the service sector if we had said no to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e355	I totally agree, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e360	We have a modern state council as a blogger, and she has also blogged on the issue of the Services Directive. In its blog, the Council of State welcomed the addition of the country of origin principle. In this setting, the Council of State Party states that the Directive states that ‘service providers are subject to the rules of the State in which they are established’. Do the councils agree with what the Labour Party believes, in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e368	We agree with what we have put forward – to say it that way. There is no doubt that there are also today opportunities to establish themselves and opportunities to act. But what is happening with this Services Directive is that we are making it even better and even easier. We believe that this is important for Norwegian jobs, especially for an industry that is growing as we see here. We simply believe that it is quite crucial for the value creation in the future that we get to it. Then I respect that there are different opinions about it. But once again, I would like to remind you that there is no directive, as far as I know, which is as thoroughly investigated as this. But I still respect the fact that the Center Party has a different view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e375	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e378	The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of Norway’s cooperation with the EU. I'll start with a quote from St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009 on Norwegian foreign policy, which is part of the Foreign Affairs Committee: ‘The EEA Agreement ensures that Norwegian enterprises and citizens have the same access to the EU internal market as businesses and citizens of EU countries. The internal market is based on a common regulatory framework. A prerequisite for Norway’s rights in this market is that EU legislation is progressively incorporated into the EEA Agreement as it develops.’ EEA cooperation does not only increase predictability and non-discrimination. The EEA Agreement also makes it safer to invest in jobs in Norwegian business with a lot of exports to or production abroad. This is essential when we know that the export of goods and services to the EEA territory is 76,6 pst. of total Norwegian exports. In particular, for the Workers' Party, two aspects have been crucial to our position on the Services Directive: that we ensure opportunities for the Norwegian service sector to compete for missions in the EEA territory that we are 100 pst. ensure that the Directive does not lead to social dumping or deterioration of our labour rights and that it does not lead to privatisation of public services; An increasing share of Norwegian employment and value added is taking place in the service sector. Architectural firms, IT companies or designers may be trying out in Europe. Norway is also a significant supplier of technical services in the maritime sector. It is important that these are covered by the same rules as providers from EU countries. And it really makes the impression that 95 pst. of all new jobs in the EEA area are services. In that case, health care and all non-compete public services are exempted from the Directive. The organisation and funding of public services is not affected – we have heard this before today – either by the social security system. In the consultation round, LO made four important requirements for the Directive, including: publication of collective bargaining agreements and tripartite cooperation must remain possible and measures against social dumping must continue. That we are now safe on this, we can among other things. Thank you to the European Parliament. In the dynamic process that has been on the Services Directive in the EU system, it is once again right – and important – to bring forward the role of the European Parliament. With or without the Treaty of Lisbon, self-conscious EU parliamentarians are in the process of gaining and acquiring increased power. It also means that we, as magnification and wholesalers, must have a completely different approach to those elected to the EU where Norwegian interests are at stake. In the examination of the Services Directive, the European Parliament has played a very positive role and greatly improved the Directive. In the case of European trade union movements, Parliament's amendments were considered to be a full victory. The words are not mine, they belong to the Swedish social democrat Jan Andersson, who was the case rapporteur for the Services Directive in the European Parliament. The agreement of the working party on the incorporation of the Services Directive into the EEA Agreement is based on the fact that the requirements of the trade movement can be maintained. The Directive will not cover the labour law of the Member States, either by law, by contract or by collective agreements. Tripartite cooperation exists, so does the right to negotiate and the right to work. When the Directive is examined in the EEA Committee in Brussels, the Government will present there a statement clarifying our reading of the Directive, how we intend to practice it. It has a political significance. It will govern the follow-up of the Services Directive by Norwegian authorities. So we've heard the Council of State's assurance from this pulpit about the communication with the Commission in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e410	My colleague Kåre Fostervold has explained well the views of the Progress Party on the Services Directive. In addition, we can join many of the good posts held by other representatives in this matter, not least by the last speaker. For the Progress Party, one thing is extremely important: to ensure that Norwegian business has competitive framework conditions, that Norwegian business has framework conditions that are as good or better than the framework conditions of our main competitors in the EU. The Progress Party will actively contribute to the development of such framework conditions for Norwegian business. The Services Directive is an important element in this way. The EU is our main trading partner, our most important market. It'll be in the future, whether you like it or not. You can stay a little bit in the debate so far and at this moment in the Government. But it's a fact that the dissident, the uncertainty created by the Centre Party and SV here around this debate, sends unclear signals to Norwegian industry about what is the government's policy towards business. In some other posts during this period, I have criticized the Government for not having used this ageing period well enough to develop business policy in a better direction. The government has been too passive, among other things. replaced the Minister of Industry twice. As a result, business has not been given clear and clear support to industrial policy throughout the period. It is obvious that when the Government is divided into two, and when two government parties so clearly speak against this case, it is not for the benefit of Norwegian business. These parties have one clear purpose in the debate, and that is to keep alive in the no-debate. It is regrettable to see that this is in front of the Norwegian business community. It is No to the EU's view that is governing here, as well as the importance of individual parties to keep alive in the no-debate. It's not Norwegian business. It is not just a no to the EU, it is also a no to the EEA Agreement. If this were to be implemented, it would have extreme consequences for Norwegian business. It is also interesting to see that the government parties to those degrees read this matter differently when it comes to safeguarding workers' fundamental rights. Inge Ryan insisted that this would lead to increased social dumping. He pointed out that there are major social differences within the EU system that will help to bring social standards down. But this sends signals from no-page speakers here that it is believed that Norwegian businesses are actively moving in to weaken their employees' rights. The importance and purpose of EU cooperation has also been misunderstood. It's just equalizing social differences. Social standards are not supposed to go downhill. The whole purpose of EU cooperation is precisely to have cohesion and to remove obstacles within the system or within the EU area. Then you have misunderstood completely what this is all about. There are also completely different agendas on the agenda than the best of Norwegian business. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e423	The debate on the Services Directive has highlighted some of the thorny aspects of Norwegian working life – what is commonly referred to as ‘social dumping’. And that's good. Unfortunately, we have some Norwegian employers who see themselves profiting from importing cheap foreign labour into Norway, with pay and working conditions undermining Norwegian jobs. The most recent example of this observatory is the Teekay and OAS Knutsen companies, which operate a bow-loading vessel in the North Sea in service of the state company StatoilHydro, and with its tacit acceptance from it. Here Norwegian seafarers are thrown on land for the benefit of underpaid Filipino seafarers. Unfortunately, this is not so unusual in Norwegian working life with today’s rules and regulations, and independent of all EU legislation. Therefore, as the Government is now doing in close cooperation with the Norwegian trade union movement, it is necessary to intensify the fight against all forms of social dumping, including the introduction of solidarity. Of course, we could wish that all forms of social dumping were the subject of unison political condemnation, among other things. in this room. It is and will be our own who must be responsible for the legal rules in the Norwegian working life. Therefore, the declaration that the Government is now attaching to the Services Directive, with the approval of the European Commission, is so important. It ensures that Norwegian workers do not accept social dumping under the Services Directive and that the Directive cannot be misinterpreted as allowing for different competition in the service sector, with Norwegian pay and working conditions as a competitive element. But of course, such a statement is not legally binding, and it does not oblige future governments. Even before the fall, we can – must ban the voters – get a government that looks very differently at Norwegian competition rules than the current government does, which will put Norwegian pay and working conditions under pressure. We have seen this in the past, at the latest during the Bondevik administration, which wanted to weaken the provisions of the Employment and Working Time Act and which wanted to extend access to temporary employment. But this is about Norwegian policy, not the Services Directive. On the other hand, the Services Directive can provide us with better opportunities to oversee and control another source of social dumping, namely the so-called post-box companies, i.e. companies which pro forma establish themselves with a branch in Norway in the form of an postal address and which actually operate outside the control of the Norwegian authorities. On the other hand, there is another directive, which has been in Norwegian law since 1996, and which takes precedence over the Services Directive, namely the so-called Posting of Workers Directive – yes, I use that term, because I think it is more correct than the name used by the Government in its document – which gives rise to serious concerns. Or rather, it is the EU Court of Justice’s interpretation of the Posting of Workers Directive that is a matter of concern and in consequence contributes to weakening the rights of workers rather than strengthening them, as the intention of the Posting of Workers Directive really is. This is also clear from a comprehensive report to the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the EU and EFTA countries, which was met in Strasbourg less than one month ago. Both the Viking Line, Laval, Rüffert and Luxembourg judgments refer to this Directive. The European Trade Union Movement and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament are now working intensively to change the understanding of this Directive. In this context, too, and because it is the EFTA Court which is to deal with possible legal disputes in Norway, the Norwegian Government’s declaration is of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e434	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e437	The principle of dealing with cross-border services in the internal market, on a level playing field and without discriminatory barriers to competition, is not something that will come with the Services Directive when it comes into force. What will happen to the Services Directive is that this right will become more real for the services covered by the Directive. Today, there are, in practice, many discriminatory barriers. In Spain, for example: more than 700 national and local regulations for the person who wants to open a new store. The situation in Norway, on the other hand, is that we do not adhere to this kind of protection against competition. We don't have to change anything but a regulation of the law on second-hand trade. In this context, it is also argued that this Directive would "undermine the fundamental rights of workers", as Mr Inge Ryan put it, and open the country to social dumping without any factual justification. The Central Party and SV refer to the reasons given by Knut Hoem for their dissent in 1972 in order to justify their parties to the Government in this matter. But Knut Hoem was wrong. Developments in the EU did not go in the direction of Knut Hoem. His scepticism didn't come true. The representative of Ola Borten Moe justified the objection to this Directive that Norwegian pay and working conditions apply in Norway – and they do. And then he said that there are Norwegian elected bodies that have to decide the rules in this area, not the European Union. However, the Centre Party has voted for the inclusion of the vast majority of EU directives into the EEA Agreement for 15 years, and for all of them it is the EU institutions that have defined the rules, including for example: with regard to the food law regulation, which we are now working intensively to integrate into the EEA Agreement and into which the Icelanders are delaying us. What distinguishes this Directive from the 3 000 to 4000 previous votes of the Centre Party? It is also a fundamental mistrust of EU cooperation that lies within the position of the SV and the Central Party. They have no confidence in European political cooperation, despite the fact that the Services Directive is one of the best examples of policy benefits, including at European level. This is why it is close to seeing this resistance in view of the fact that the Centre Party and the SV feel the need to wave with a no-winkle after almost four years in government, four years when the pace of enlargement of our cooperation with the EU continues with undiminished strength. In 2007, all the cooperation programmes were launched and were to be renewed. The government went into all of them for a new six-year period, plus another one. We have extended cooperation in the Schengen area. We are part of the EU's response forces and are part of several agencies. So the government is now working intensively against the EU to integrate the food law regulation. That's this pattern that I think the two games now want to raise a little dome against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e452	The centre party is very concerned about having a clean labour market and the rights of employees. There is no joint declaration between Norway and the EU that clearly determines Norway’s freedom of action in governing laws and regulations in the Norwegian labour market. The EU has not given any guarantee that the Storting has the freedom to ensure a regulatory framework that gives all those working in Norway proper pay and employment conditions. We regret that the yes-side promises of guarantees in the EEA Agreement have once again proved impossible to fulfil. There is no national room for exceptions in EU law. The whole objective is, of course, harmonisation. National specific rules are therefore inconceivable. Therefore, the Government has not succeeded in making the EU guarantee of the four requirements originally imposed by LO in order to accept the Directive, namely a guarantee that the Services Directive does not prevent social dumping measures or that new measures can be implemented – a guarantee that the public service institution can continue and develop. The LO also asked for a guarantee that national governance in key areas of society can be maintained and that basic societal tasks can continue to be addressed through the public sector, including health, social services, school, transport and electricity generation. LO's last requirement to accept the Services Directive was that it should not affect national labour law issues or prevent the Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation. Failure to comply with the requirements of the LO reinforces the fear of the Central Party that the Directive will present Norway with major challenges related to national governance and social dumping. We in the Central Party are realists, and we are listening to the legal experts who have raised doubts about the validity of unilateral declarations. We have also listened to those who have raised doubts as to whether even a joint declaration with the European Union would be enough. European countries' meetings with the European Court of Justice in the field of working life in recent years have not given us reason to be calm or naive. The purpose article of the Services Directive states that the labour law rules must ‘respect Community law’. Norway has not previously accepted a Directive expressing the subordination of national labour law to EU law. We have no guarantee today that the case law will take account of the Norwegian and Nordic welfare model in which we are so happy. We have no guarantee that our desire to maintain pay and employment conditions that ensure a broad range of self-sufficient and good living standards is also the top priority of the European Court of Justice. We have no guarantees, and therefore the Senterpartiet regrets that the Stortinget today appears to incorporate the EU Services Directive into Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e469	This is an important directive for Norwegian business, which has been discussed by several speakers. But it is also important because it has started a debate on the conditions of work and the conditions arising from social dumping. It's important in itself. I notice that the opposition – now, most recently, Asmyhr of the Progress Party – believes that taking time for this debate is damaging Norwegian working life. In my opinion, no more mistakes can be made. It is always important for us to make sure that we have a working life that is free of social dumping and that we have an orderly and regulated working life. It is a competitive advantage for Norwegian work. There is no burden on Norwegian working life that we use the necessary time to take a debate on it. When we then come to the debate on our working life and the fight against social dumping related to the Services Directive, it is essential, in my view, to note that the European Parliament has ensured that the Posting of Workers Directive is in front of the Services Directive. The conditions governing the handling of pay and working conditions are laid down in the Posting of Workers Directive. When the European Parliament did this, it was, as several speakers before me have said, an important step and a victory for trade union movement in Europe. It is true that recent EC law has called into question the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive in some EU countries. None of the judgments so far in Community law will affect Norway's implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive, as it says, and our handling of it. I take that easy, but I think it is very important that, as a country, we follow and try to influence the processes that are now taking place in the EU around the Posting of Workers Directive, because this is an important directive for our working life. Finally, I would like to say that, in my opinion, the threat to our fight for a good working life without social dumping does not come from the EU. It comes from the right-hand side of Norway. We have noticed throughout this period that the right-hand side's response to social dumping has been the proposal for weak and inadequate measures. They will not grant professionally elected rights. They will not impose obligations on contracting entities. Now we also hear from the right-hand side here that the Public Service Act is being called into question. If the right-hand side is going to go against the law on public procurement, what is left of that side of the fight against social dumping?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e480	The Services Directive will increase cross-border trade in services. It's meant to be, and it's going to be the effect. How much trade will increase was the theme of one of the investigations ordered by the Government, the so-called Menon report. It concludes that foreign services in Norway will increase by DKK 16 billion – twice as much as Norwegian services will increase the other way. Service provision is usually labour-intensive industries. So NOK 16 billion is quite a thousand jobs owned by foreign companies. When the provision of services by the rest of the world increases, competition for this service also increases. It means increasing competition between the people who are to provide these services. All experience shows that increased competition in trade-union sectors increases the risk of social dumping. In the 2006 report entitled ‘Unlimited working life?’, Fafo notes that short-term mobility of services ‘has become the dominant form of labour mobility’ in central parts of the world of work. ‘Experience from many European countries shows that precisely this type of volatile service mobility is the most difficult to control and is therefore the form of mobility most exposed to low-wage competition, the circumvention of law and contractual works and the avoidance of taxes and charges.’ Short-term mobility of services is precisely what the Services Directive aims to increase. As a result, the level of social dumping will necessarily increase. The Menon report and the Fafo report show that the increase can be significant. In view of this, I think it is striking that when the Ministry of Economic Affairs asked Fafo for an investigation the following year, they did not ask for an assessment of whether the Services Directive would lead to social dumping, only if an assessment of whether the Action Package I was in breach of the Services Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e500	The central party put the latter in a position to oppose the EU Services Directive, and our representatives today are voting against the inclusion of the directive here in the Stortinget. We do so because we believe that the Directive challenges national governance in key areas of society and creates uncertainty as to whether important societal tasks can be carried out through the public sector in the future. We do this because we fear that the directive will make it much more difficult to combat social dumping. And we do that because we believe that the Services Directive has been created to reinforce the shortcomings that have proved to be applicable in existing EU law, the Posting of Workers Directive. The aim of the Services Directive is to increase trade in services between the 27 EU countries and the three EEA Member States – countries with very different economic and social conditions. The troubled times of the world economy are exacerbating inequalities. We believe that Europe’s main task now is to secure employment and to secure stable and long-term full-time jobs. So the centre party does not want an economic system in which one strives for large parts of the workforce to move on at all times. The US has a mobile labour market with strong competition for labour, which has led to low real wages compared to the cost level of large groups. Today’s financial crisis includes: a result of the fact that the consumption to a broad extent of the population in the United States has been financed by a loan. Our job is to secure the broad spectrum, both in Eastern Europe and in Western Europe, an income that does not force people into loan-funded consumption – with loans that they cannot serve. The Services Directive reinforces the weaknesses of EU labour law. And so in the setting, a nearly collective committee says that "the Services Directive establishes that providers are subject to the rules of the state in which they are established". We note that what we have always pointed out, namely that the country of origin principle – that Eastern Europeans working in Norway can in the future be paid according to the Eastern European salary level – is now also recognised by the trailers of the directive. The centre party believes that by introducing the directive one closes the eyes of today's economic crisis and introduces a deregulation cut over the same ideological reading as when it was created. The increasing resistance to the provisions of the Directive, including in the European Parliament, may be a warning that history books will appear as one of the most recent features of the deregulation of the service market in market liberalism. If we are to maintain a decent salary level in relation to the high level of Norwegian costs, the law must ensure that an exchange of labour takes place under Norwegian wage and work conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e518	This morning I woke up to the news that the product Red Bull will be approved by the Food Safety Authority in Norway. One reason for this is that the product is marketed within the EU area and that it is therefore reasonable that we should do the same. It is therefore a product that has a significant caffeine content – far beyond what has been found to be acceptable in Norway – and that has added sweeteners and sugars, so that you do not notice caffeine. The reason why it was not wanted to be placed on the market in Norway is that the product with the high caffeine content was initially considered presumptively harmful. I draw it up as a practical example in relation to a number of issues we have seen since 16 October 1992, when Norway ratified the EEA Agreement. We have thus experienced that despite considerable scepticism in professional environments, among Norwegian children's doctors and in Norwegian industry, the Child Food Directive has been ratified. We have done the same with the Food Mining Directive. We have done so with the directive on patents in life. Now we are doing so with the Services Directive, and it is very likely that it will be done later on in relation to the Data Storage Directive. What has been interesting about this in the near 17 years that have gone by is that this is a development that those who at the time did not want to support the EEA Agreement warned against and also asked concrete questions about. I would like to quote what then opposition politicians and party leaders in SV, Erik Solheim, then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, asked: ‘In this situation, how will the Government relate to the right of veto we have in the EEA? This is a right of veto we have indisputably, but it is a right of veto that we all know will create significant political problems to use." Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland replied at that time – and she titulated him, Mr. Solheim, for your safety: ‘The two examples mentioned here by Erik Solheim, questions related to oil resources and their handling on our base and questions about contractual and social relations in our labour market, of course, relate to the kind of vital interests I think about when I say what I am doing here. In other words, we have not achieved that EEA Agreement legislation for no reason. We have done this because if necessary it should also be possible to put it into service." She mentioned in this context explicit social dumping. What has been made visible in retrospect is in many ways, with some rewriting from Rudolf Nilsen, that nothing is more like writing in truth than promises of honesty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e539	In fact, equal and non-discriminatory trade in services is one of the fundamental principles of the EC Treaty and of the EEA Agreement. It is then that a fragmentation of the internal market for services, for example: in the case of national dividing lines, will have a negative impact on the whole of the European economy. This is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in fact in large numbers in the service sector. To this end, it is important to simplify the trade in services and to remove stumbling wires that are difficult to establish in other countries. When a person listens to the debate here today, one might think that this case is about something completely different – but it's actually about trade in services. Increased cross-border trade in services has many positive sides. It is important to focus on any negative consequences. For this reason, the Government has been so ready – one has worked and got all the expenses to ensure that social dumping is not problematic in relation to the directive. From SV and the Center Party, it comes that we cannot now have the control of our own. Firstly, it is not the Services Directive that regulates labour law matters, it is the broadcasting directive that does, which was also mentioned here by the representative Henriksen. The Broadcasting Directive is leading the Services Directive, so that Directive has no significance in labour law matters. I would also just like to say that in the case of social dumping, Article 1 says that the Services Directive does not concern labour law and the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce tariff agreements, and that it does not prevent today's public administration system or changes in it. The Directive explicitly states that it does not concern the organisation and financing of public services, so it does not concern labour law, the right to negotiate, conclude and enforce tariffs and the right to work. It's important that we have these four points with us. I thought these representatives should read this one more time. I just want to end by saying that the Services Directive regulates trade in services, it does not regulate labour law, it is the Posting of Workers Directive that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e550	I was thinking of getting hold of the post from the representative of Sven Roald Hansen. First, he misrepresented me, he said that I had said that this should be determined by the Norwegian authorities. I said that it was Norwegian authorities in common with the Norwegian professional organisations that were to lay down the framework for Norwegian policy in terms of labour law and pay and working conditions. That's an important clarification. Then I understood his reasoning that since we have accepted so many other EU directives, we also had to be in favour of this EU directive. It is with respect to report a pointless rhetoric and a pointless assertion. Of course, it should be that all of us who accept directives on behalf of Norway go into each of these directives, look at their consequences, and consider whether this makes sense for Norway to be involved or not. For many of these Directives, it makes sense for Norway to participate in a common policy and legislation with the EU. However, it is not the same as if we do not have an active European policy. I will claim, and in part also demonstrate, that both the Centre parity and the SV have been involved in introducing Norwegian EU policies to a much more active averaging in this period than has been the case in previous periods. Then I'm going to bring forward two things that are especially important. One is the reintroduction of the differentiated employer’s fee. It would not have come if there had not been a significant commitment, not least from the Centre Party and the SV, but also from an overall Norwegian government, to put one of the main regional policy instruments in place in Norway. So we put that in place. This is the result of an active EU policy, an active approach to the EEA Agreement. The second is what may be one of the great victors of the Government in relation to the EU in this period, namely that we still have a fall-back institute, that we have still managed to maintain ownership and government over Norwegian water resources and the enormous value creation that is in Norwegian footfalls. I am surprised that Mr Hansen's representative is so perilous about these important issues, and it almost assumes that since this has come from the EU, we are obliged to accept it. So a remark on the tamp. In the EEA Agreement, it is permissible for us to have a right of veto. It has been mentioned earlier here that, among other things. Bjørn Tore Godal thought it should be unproblematic to use it. My question to Hansen is: If you are not going to be able to use the right of veto in this question, if you are going to ask basic questions about whether there are Norwegian rules that will apply in relation to pay and working conditions in Norway, when are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e561	Based on what has been said by the Council of State in this debate, we can state that it is clear that Norway and the EU will jointly establish some fundamental points in the inclusion of this Services Directive, namely that the Directive does not affect employment conditions, the relationship between social partners, the right to negotiate collective agreements and fundamental rights in strike rights and the right to work conflicts – and it does not affect labour law or tripartite cooperation. Secondly, there is no contradiction between the Services Directive and a strong national effort to develop action plans and implement appropriate measures to protect the rights of domestic and posted workers and to maintain high standards in the workplace. Such measures may include, inter alia: include an effective system for the publication of collective bargaining agreements and the establishment of joint and several liability with a view to ensuring that employees’ rights are respected. Last but not least, it will be established that national authorities continue to have the competence to determine the extent to which services are to be provided by the public and how they are to be organised and financed. On this basis, I would like to ask that the proposal put forward by the Christian People's Party be converted into a transmission proposal. As far as the debate is concerned, it may be tempting to send a few sticks in many directions, but at this stage in the debate I will try to refrain from it. I just want to state that when the representative Svein Roald Hansen says that the opponents of the directive – those who will vote against inclusion – express distrust of the EU and of EU cooperation, it is not the biggest bomb in this debate. But the distrust expressed by the same representatives to their own Council of State by what they have said from this pulpit today is quite alarming, because what the honourable co-representatives say is that they don't believe – they don't believe in the text of the proposition, they don't believe in the words of the Council of State from the pulpit of the Storting, they don't believe in the assurances that the Government will ask for in Brussels. That's the government's problem, but it's worth noting at the bottom of this debate that you have such a problem. Let me conclude by saying that for the Christian People's Party, the EEA Agreement is an agreement that has served Norway well, as has been established by two different governments in recent years, and for us, it has a intrinsic value to fence off the EEA Agreement. It's no wonder that those who are against the EEA Agreement take this lightly, but it doesn't do the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e576	It was not intended to limit the quote from Ola Borten Moe's posts and to exclude that in this area that we are now talking about, i.e. pay and working conditions, not only are the political authorities, but also the social partners that are to have participation. My point was that the principle, namely that with regard to legislation in the internal market – which we are part of – it is not Norwegian authorities, but EU bodies that decide. This applies to all the directives we have implemented, and it also applies to this as far as the authorities set things. That's the principle. So ask Ola Borten Moe when we're going to use the right of reservation if it's not to be used in a case where questions about pay and working conditions are asked. This is where we disagree. This Directive does not question pay and working conditions. It is not as the representative of Bergo said that trade in services is increasing, and then many come to Norway and provide services on low wages in Eastern Europe. Those to provide services in Norway shall do so on the basis of the Posting of Workers Directive, in which case Norwegian pay and working conditions apply. It is a reality. We shall use the right of reservation when necessary for important national reasons. So until now, no government has found that to be the case. That right is real, but it has a consequence, because the EU will take a countermeasure. Of course, what it's going to be, we won't know until we have a very specific case. But in this area, which deals with a large part – not all – of the service market, it's not a small fillet we're talking about. So the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said that we should have good pay and working conditions in Norway. Yes, I don't think there's any very big disagreement about that in this room, at least not at all. As far as working conditions are concerned, this room has a major impact through environmental law, etc., but in terms of wages and salaries, we must not forget in this debate on social dumping that it is the responsibility of the social partners. So we can use the public relations institute. It is an instrument that the social partners can use. However, in terms of pay and working conditions, it is not prohibited to pay poorly in Norway. We can complain and call it very strange, but it's not forbidden. Then it is said that increased trade in services will undermine good pay and working conditions. No, I have more confidence in Norwegian trade union movement than that. That's the one. The second is that very many countries in Europe have minimum rates of pay. Do those who are very sceptical here really think that EU countries will accept the removal of minimum wages at EU level? I think better both about the EU system and about the individual countries than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e587	Like the representative Højbrätten, I feel compelled to state that this debate has shown that the legal rules in Norwegian working life are our own responsibility, now and in the future, independent of the Services Directive. Now I have a feeling – and I think this debate is an expression of it – that the no-side resistance to the Services Directive is really a rematch to the EEA Agreement itself. That's all right. However, it should be borne in mind that the application of the right of reservation in a case that goes straight into one of the four freedoms of the EU would obviously have resulted in what is called ‘appropriate countermeasures’ by the EU — and I am happy that it does not happen, not least in the interests of the Norwegian fishing industry. That no-side should be remembered, is that there are many of us who actually view the EEA Agreement as an alternative to EU membership. On the day that the EEA agreement had to fall, many of us consider membership an alternative, and then it may be sudden that the number of people currently living in the EU is turned into a 'yes' majority. In my opinion, therefore, the nei-side counterfight about the EEA agreement is dangerous first and foremost for the no-side itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e596	I took note of Dagfinn Højbrätten’s statement that it should not be surprising that those who oppose a Norwegian EU membership are also sceptical about the EU system. It's a reasoning I totally agree with him on. On the other hand, it is quite clear that those who are most afraid of the consequences of the EU system are not us who are EU opponents, but it is Steinar Gullvåg and Svein Roald Hansen. No one has warned as clearly as they have of the consequences of saying no to the EU, because there are a lot of reactions from that system, which will have major, serious ring-effects for Norway. And the interesting thing about it is in how great a contrast there is to what the then Minister of Trade Bjørn Tore Godal said, and what Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said. They said that the right of reservation was just to be used, and that it would be actively used when there was a reason. While the time has been spent here in many ways, reading what should have been written in that agreement, but which is not at all problematic in 1992, that is, saying no is so serious that there is hardly a case where you can say no. It also makes it impossible for the Minister of Industry today to provide a single example of a case within the EU system to which she might say no. Then I have to say that when someone here makes it like this is going completely smoothly, and says that there are no problems with preventing social dumping, there is quite a ghastly contrast to judges who have already fallen within the EU system, for example. The Laval judgment of December 2007: Buildings in Sweden can negotiate collective agreements with any Swedish company and use the means of conflict approved by the Swedish law. But a Latvian company can't do that. This also means that if a company is set up in Latvia from the Swedish side to allow employees to work in Sweden, it has come about what Swedish courts can do about it. Similarly, the Rüffert judgment of May 2008 states that the Land of Lower Saxony may require all German companies to pay the tariffs on public service contracts, but not for Polish to do so. Luxembourg judgment of June 2008: Luxembourg was not allowed to impose the same requirements on companies working across national borders as on domestic companies. This could have been done with examples, and new examples would, of course, come up with new legal cases. What is unfortunate then is that so many of those who defend that kind of agreement today do not problem that kind of impact. Then it's quite natural – we're saying this today, and we said correspondingly in 1992 – that we're moving it forward in retrospect. Isn't it then okay with a little humility, and say we were too authoritative that time, it wasn't actually like we said?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e609	Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e612	To the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo, I would just like to say that when I vote in favour of this directive today, it is not because I am afraid of the European Union, because I think it is a good directive for trade in services. It is good to have a level playing field in this area too because there are too many stumble threads around. I read in the paper that the Norwegian Government is now considering suing Spanish shipyards, because they are suspected of running subsidisation. I assume that the representative Ballo also agrees that we should not have that kind of distortion of competition, whether it concerns HMS rules, working hours or what it is – that is the whole point of the internal market. So these judgments don't apply to the Services Directive. This concerns the Posting of Workers Directive, and it is now working intensively, at least from the left of the European Parliament, to amend those directives in order to reverse the Court’s action room. I think it would have been an advantage for representatives that Olav Gunnar Ballo could have been in that fight on the European arena. But we've unfortunately been outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e621	At the bottom of the debate, I feel the need to say – as in itself, the representative Hansen was also here in place – that the service directive we are discussing today is, of course, a service directive for the future. It is not possible to rely on what has happened, because this is what – within the area we are now talking about – will apply in the future. I would also like to say that this debate is really about the following: is it the court that has to decide the policy, or is it the politicians who have to decide it? That is why we believe it is right to incorporate this Services Directive. When we think this is good for Norway and for Norwegian jobs, it is because the service industry is a very important industry in Norway. It is an industry that is growing, and it is an industry that is totally dependent on trading with other countries in order to maintain jobs, so that we can get even more value creation in Norway. When we have said – I would like to repeat it now – that we are confident that this Services Directive does not undermine the rights of workers, we believe so! This is investigated, with respect to reporting, on all bows and edges. Then you can still disagree – I understand that someone is – but it's solved. I would also like to say that the Labour Party had never been in favour of including a directive that had undermined the rights of workers – let it be clear! It explicitly states that, hopefully, the Storting will vote on later: the Services Directive does not preclude measures against social dumping. The Education Institute may be continued and developed. We can maintain, maritimely, national governance in key areas of society, and basic societal tasks can still be solved through the public sector. The Services Directive does not affect national labour law issues nor does it preclude the Norwegian model of tripartite cooperation. This is, of course, important for the Workers' Party that we are able to take care of. Here we have a good combination of both safeguarding the rights of employees, which we determine the seas of the social partners, and being able to incorporate the Services Directive, which is so invisibly important for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e632	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e648	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2661]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e656	Then the Storting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e686	During the debate, Dagfinn Højbråten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. This proposal has turned Dagfinn Højbråten into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is invited to submit the issue of the Services Directive for re-management in Stortinget if it appears that the four requirements of the LOs Directive are not met.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e701	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23.ana.ud2499e1180	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
