ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e22	The representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e25	On behalf of the representative Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I would like to propose an action plan to prevent a supply crisis in the power supply to Tøndelag and Møre and Romsdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e30	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e56	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Tora Aasland State Council Trond Gian State Council Anniken Huitfeldt The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e75	My question goes to the Minister of Research and Higher Education. For many years, the Progress Party has been strongly committed to a long-term commitment to higher education, while the government parties have not been able to meet the expectations of the sector since 2005. This has led this sector to feel the pressure on the economy over many years now. The government itself has said that it is necessary to do something to improve the situation, and I expect that the crisis package that the government is presenting until Monday, contains never so little thanks for higher education. However, in times of decline, the number of students in higher education is increasing. The head of the research association, Bjarne Hodne, has already said that the institutions may not have the capacity to increase student mass, that the staff is already under pressure, that there is too little time for research, and that there are major challenges in terms of increasing capacity in the short term. Therefore, the long-term nature of research and higher education is crucial, and new and emerging seizures do not solve the long-term challenges in the higher education sector. That's why the Progress Party is not so concerned about what the Government is going to do by Monday, because we're told that by Monday. However, the challenge lies in how the Government will manage in the long term to secure a university and higher education sector that can take the increase in student mass that is now due to declines, and not only this year, but also in the years to come. How is the Council of State to guarantee that the sector will simply be able to meet the challenges imposed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e86	I'm really happy to get that question, because this is something I work with all the time, that's to strengthen the opportunities for universities and colleges to do their job. I want to remind the representative Anundsen that during the last year we have strengthened the basic allocation three times. It is essential for universities and universities to be able to do their job both in research and education. I would also like to remind you that we have had a number of actions with regard to scholarship holders, both ordinary scholarship holders and by taking care of the researchers, and also on the research side to get a more long-term impression. I also agree with the representative that the long-term thinking that lies in everything that has to do with higher education is not exactly inviting for a crisis package solution alone. It invites long-term thinking, and that's why we're working on it over the budgets all the time. But I also want to remind you that we have a situation in Norway where we want to have education across the country, and there are inequalities – there is variation – between our study places in the big cities and our study places in the districts. The places of study not located in the major cities may report slightly different conditions from those in the major cities in terms of leave in study places; they do not have the same pressure. So here we try by the actions we are doing now, to promote cooperation, division of labour and concentration in a good way, so that we can get a good study offer and a good research across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e95	I want to thank you for the answer, and hear that the Council of State says that it is working to improve the economy of the sector in every single budget. After all, this government's period was started with a crazy big cut in higher education, and so the three reversals have not solved the expectations that were then. I would like to point out a concrete example: the two subjects of low-energy nuclear physics and space physics are now disappearing, despite the fact that there are priority subjects within Food.Nat. and the need for that type of competence emerges, for example, in the Cancer Act, which obliges all hospitals to have at least one radiation physicist. But without a living trade union environment, of course, it will be impossible to achieve. So we know in this room that universities and colleges are relatively free to dispose of their funds. But now trade unions are moving because the general economy in the sector is too bad. At that time, the question to the Council of State whether the Council of State considers it reasonable that important areas of research and education could be closed down due to the poor economy of the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e102	It is quite right, as the representative Anundsen points out, that it is up to universities and institutions themselves to give priority to their fields of activity. But in addition to that, we have an overall investment, not least in real science and the type of subject mentioned here. I can't go into and instruct the individual school in what to do, but I can try to motivate and inspire to be part of the important research and education in these areas. Then I have my systematic work of building up a foundation and a framework that is satisfactory enough, so that they can do the job. I look quite bright on the future. I think we should look ahead, not just look at what has been in the years that were, but see the possibility that the university and higher education sectors can do a much better job both in providing good education and in conducting research in important areas both for society here in Norway and globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e109	There will be four follow-up questions – first Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e112	I really have to disagree with the Council of State when she says that the thinking in today's situation does not invite me to a crisis package solution. For the situation in which the government has put the sector in, it's that you cut first, and then you've come back to your starting position. Now the Council of State has, among other things, New year interviews clearly signaled that with increasing unemployment, students should seek higher education, they should take more education and acquire more skills. Then the sector has to expect quite a few tens of thousands of new students to be admitted. Governments also gave clear signals at yesterday's contact conference for research that there were no measures for the sector in the crisis package. Does SV therefore mean that the sector will receive tens of thousands of students without increased resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e121	Governments believe that it is important to take into account that there are more students. But it's a continuous task. The understanding must be there, whether you are talking about crisis packages or budgets – understanding that we need more places to study in the future. And why do we need more places to study? Well, that's because youth schools are increasing, it's because people have a tendency to take higher education now more than before in all disciplines, and that's because a possible crisis situation that had to hit people who would otherwise not have taken up education leads more people into the places of education. So we are very well prepared to receive more students in the future. What is important now is to get that understanding into the ongoing and continuous budgetary work. For this is a long-term and long-term matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e127	With Gunnar Gundersen addressing a question to SV, the President will draw the representatives' attention to the fact that questions are addressed to government councils and not to political parties. Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e132	A crisis can provide opportunities. It can give opportunities to bet on higher education if you want, and if you want. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have jointly recorded in the Government's crisis package that it is important now to invest both in people and in infrastructure in higher education. That is, you could take advantage of the chance of doing something with equipment, which we know is a missing factor in higher education, and you could bet on doing something in construction. That is why it is a little ominous when you get strong signals that higher education should not be part of the crisis package and that you do not have expectations about the crisis package. Because it's only if we take advantage of the crisis awareness in a positive way that we can turn this around. I have to ask – and now I ask the Council of State: is there also an understanding that we are facing a very critical situation in the Norwegian economy, or is this just a way of dealing with and continuing with a common policy for the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e137	Understanding a crisis situation is such that measures requiring employment are necessary and can provide a good incentive in the short term. The challenge with regard to higher education, and especially with regard to places of study, is that there are long-term measures that need to be taken. However, there must be an understanding that education is an important part of the type of action to be taken in general. Of course, I cannot say anything today about the package to be presented by the Government on Monday, but the understanding of such a crisis situation is that the measures should have an employment impact and that they should be an incentive in the short term, so that we should not rely on longer-term measures. Therefore, we need two types of planning: we need one type of planning of the more short-term measures, and we need one type of planning of the long-term ones, which then includes university and higher education places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e144	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e147	The long-term lies among other things. in having a research fund, where the current government has not yet been able to raise the last budget of the Bondevik II Government – a research fund which is also not to be used to finance current operations or the EU Framework Programme. So the government doesn't meet the long term. But I'm going to focus on the short-term, because you don't create anything long-term if the short-term isn't good. The short-term thing that we now hear examples of, subjects that are under pressure, study offers that are being reduced, the quality of quality reform, which is being weakened in many ways, is about one thing, and that is that you don't have enough money to run study offers, basic research, applied research – all the commitments you have. And we know what's missing in the sector, it's confirmed by the University and Higher Education Council, and that's 400 million. kr in the current year to avoid keeping job vacancies and cutting study offers. Will the Council of State guarantee that we will now be corrected so that we do not go backwards into the situation we have with the crisis around us?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e154	I think it is quite striking that the representative, Mr Dørum, has already forgotten that we have strengthened the Research Fund by DKK 12 billion in the current year's budget: 6 billion in the general fund, of which a designation for equipment, and 6 billion in regional research funds. This is a formidable strengthening and the Research Fund has increased every year in the years that this government has held. With regard to the designation of funds from the Research Fund for equipment, there is a handle that I know is well received in the sector, precisely because there is a need to have predictability on important issues of equipment. So I'd like to say to the general that we have a continuous dialogue and work with universities and colleges to make them do their job, while we see that there are differences around the country in the individual schools. My goal, and I think we are very well on our way to that with this year's budget, is that they should have the necessary basis for both education and research, as the Storting and the Government want them to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e161	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e164	We hear about higher education institutions where scientific staff lose their pensions and jobs remain unoccupied because the institution has to save money. We hear that skills and disciplines are being weakened and some disciplines are becoming confused and disappearing. Continuing this development, we will not have enough scientific staff to research and teach in several areas of real science. At the same time, we know that Norwegian industry and technology and energy companies are screaming for real-life vocational skills. The school needs real-time skills among its teachers, and there is a clear trend towards increased skills requirements in Norwegian business. Norwegian students score poorly in international real-life tests. The proportion of women in real science is below 10 p.p., the decline in engineering studies is very high, and there are too few higher sector places of study. These trends were also observed in 2005. What concrete measures has the Government actually taken to reverse these trends, and when can we expect concrete results?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e173	These were accusations of a very large extent, and I just want to say that all this is unusually important for the commitment we are making to the real science strategy, for the effort that is made in general in universities and colleges, and not least for the commitment that is made to the business community, i.e. cooperation with the business community. Let me use the opportunity to say something about two of the important mechanisms we have to stimulate cooperation between universities and colleges and business, because it's not like everyone taking a doctorate is going to be a researcher. Business needs them, and now we have nutrition PhDs, nutrition doctorates, and we have the tax FUNN system, both of which are schemes to stimulate business to demand research, to do research and to cooperate with universities. With our real science strategy, we see the results of this. We see that there is now a strengthening on the real science side. We're very happy that it's going to be the right way forward, and we're going to really pay attention to this in the future as well. So here's an innumerable number of things to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e180	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e183	The teacher is the most important input in the school. An education system never gets better than the quality of its teachers. Therefore, competent, committed and motivated teachers are a prerequisite for students to learn more. Fortunately, we have many such teachers in school today, but we need more. Calculations from the Education Association show that we lack 5,700 teachers in school today, and the Ministry of Knowledge has calculated that we need more than 7,000 new teachers by 2020, if all the factors are kept constant. In the last two years, the proportion of unskilled people has increased by 30 p.m., and only in the last year, there have been twice as many unskilled teachers as teachers in school. We know that approx. 10 000 teachers today work in other professions outside the school. In the last three years, the Right has focused heavily on training, recruiting and retaining teachers in school. The government parties have voted in favour of every proposal, sitting still and watching the recruitment crisis grow and grow. Just before the weekend, the Ministry of Knowledge promoted a proposal for a so-called growth reform, in which the number of hours should be extended, as agreed on by the Right. But besides that, the main emphasis should be put on one hour of free SFO, it should be put at the maximum price in SFO and free food. Again, the government here shows that they give priority to school leave before school. Where the Right believes that we have to do the most important thing first, namely to improve the content of school and hire more teachers, the Government is thus giving the opposite priority. The Ministry of Knowledge has estimated that an hour-long extension will lead to an under-coverage of 10,000 teachers. There is a great number, and the Government has not presented a plan for how this so-called growth reform – which is actually a conservation reform – should be able to meet the needs of more teachers and better teachers. So the question is, why is a billion-dollar reform proposed that focuses on school leave ahead of school time and content and teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e197	I can assure the representative Eriksen Soreide that the government has not been calm in the situation on the teacher's side, and in relation to the schools, but we're trying to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. We're both trying to bet that the teacher should be good at his or her profession and that there should be a greater motivation to add teachers who have competence in his or her field. This will be an overall assessment of the educational and teacher role that is now right around the corner of learning. Secondly, we look at the importance of stimulating both knowledge and professional development for students and at the same time having a school that also offers opportunities to develop social skills. It's not an art to be able to have the two thoughts in your head at the same time. I think it's a completely natural and of course thing that, in a school situation, you primarily need good teachers to get good knowledge from the students, but at the same time you need to have a school environment that also stimulates good learning. That is what is important for the initiatives proposed. But first of all, I might ask the representative to wait to assess whether the government has been calm or not, until she has seen the big message about the teacher training. I fully understand that the opposition parties do not have the insight into the measures that are there, like what we have that has worked with them, but I can assure you that there we see the whole thing in the situation of the teacher as well as in the situation of the school and the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e206	I thank you for the answer, sail if there was no answer to the question I asked. Right and other opposition parties have now for several years proposed senior measures to keep teachers longer in school. We have made suggestions to get all the teachers who are currently in other professions back to school. The parties to the Government vote on every proposal. What the government is now proposing – a storage reform where the money will be spent on one hour of free SFO, a maximum price in SFO and free food – will thus be directly pushed to recruit more teachers. My question remains – and I am trying to ask for an answer to it: why is it that the government is now proposing a reform where billions will go to keep children longer, at the expense of employing more teachers and at the expense of school contents? Why does the government give priority to schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e215	The government’s priority is to have an overall view of the school, and thus the communication of teacher training comes as an important answer to that question. It provides the basis for seeing the teacher’s role in the school situation. Then we get other measures that, of course, come in addition, and that need to be discussed and investigated in more detail. What is important now, for both the Right and the other opposition parties, is to deal with the whole picture we present in the big message about teacher training and the role of teachers, because there is a basis for what should be thought in school and in the educational situation. It may be that someone each will recognize suggestions from earlier, but we have now taken this into an overall context and presented a message where all of this is combined in one important effort, namely on the teacher, with whom the representative Eriksen Soreide also started his questions. The teacher is the important thing, and that's the teacher we now need to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e222	There will be follow-up questions – Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e225	I'm glad the Council of State is focusing on the whole thing. The Progress Party has been very busy all along, namely that we should have quality throughout the education cycle, from initial and further training to higher education. We know that we're struggling with the quality of basic training. We know that Norwegian students do it worse than students in the countries we like to compare with, actually so bad that this government introduced so-called cramps, or immediate measures, for some time back to try to compensate for it. The challenge – since the Council of State is the Minister of Research and Higher Education – will be that the quality deficit we see in initial training will have consequences for higher education too, because the quality of those students who move to higher education is different from that of those who should be in higher education. Then the Progress Party is surprised that the Council of State defends a retention reform in school rather than focusing on quality. Does not the Council of State agree that priority should be given to professional skills in primary school in order to ensure the quality of higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e232	Governments are very concerned about defending professional competence in school. I have tried to explain that it will be at the heart of the message that the Storting will be receiving soon. Much attention will be paid to the teacher's ability to disseminate knowledge and thus to develop students who, when they come to higher education, are able to take on that education in a good way. I see that there is a clear link between quality in primary, secondary, secondary and higher education, and it is the government's clear goal that there should be quality in all parts of education. Both the expertise and the learning environment are important for this. Both parts mean something, and that's what makes up the whole school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e239	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e242	It's true, as the Council of State says, there's no piece of art to have two thoughts in your head at once, but the art of politics is about priority. That's where many of us jump when we saw the new reform that was presented by the party that the Council of State represents. We in the Christian People's Party want a good school with a good learning, and then we want a good leisure time with good SFO arrangements. But mixing this together means that local municipal politicians have to choose between fruit and green and good teachers, that they have to choose between creating good learning and good school content and quality in the SFO. Does the Council of State think this is a proper priority in school, if it's not just about having thoughts in your head, but about getting the money on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e249	I have tried to explain the processes in which we are involved, where the Stortinget is now receiving the message of teacher training and the role of teacher, which is my responsibility. Other issues relating to the school will need to be discussed both in government and big business and, of course, come as part of the overall picture. Now the situation is that we focus on the role of teacher and teacher education, so that the teachers, through their knowledge and their ability to communicate and learn away to the students at the stage of their childhood, in upper secondary school and in upper secondary school, will be able to impart good knowledge to the students. But what we don't have to forget is that this happens in a learning environment, which is also an important part of it. Having two thoughts in your head at the same time doesn't necessarily mean that one has to be more important than the other. It is that you can have two important thoughts in your head at the same time, but in time and process it is the teacher training and thinking about knowledge and knowledge dissemination that comes first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e256	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e259	In the left's opinion, this is about at least having one bright thought in your head, and that's that you can't run school without good teachers and many enough teachers. For example, we can read in Bergen's Official Journal today that in one of Bergen's largest secondary schools there are no teachers, and students in the class are left to themselves in two subjects. In the past, we have received descriptions from the same part of the country from which the Council of State comes, about the lack of teachers in Stavanger, about the municipalities that offer 80,000 kroner in wages and salaries to recruit teachers. It is very good that the Council of State makes a message about the role of teachers and strengthens it for any future situation. That's good, and we'll probably discuss that. But the crucial thing now is whether we take care of the teachers we have. Then my question is: When will the government finally do what most people realize we need, namely to create an obligating national recruitment plan for teachers both in high school and in primary school, so that we get enough teachers through obliging seniors and systematic further education for all teachers in all subjects? When will the government put it first that we recruit enough teachers through obliging plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e267	Recruitment of teachers comes, if not just as a plan, as Dørum calls for and has called for in the past, but as important measures in that message that we are going to present to the Stortinget every moment. There will be good steps to motivate people to apply for teacher training, but also to hold the students and not least to hold the teachers afterwards. We have also made measures in the year's budget that work in this direction. So it's not like here that you're sitting there and you're not doing anything until a message is presented. We are working in parallel with measures both for continuing education and training, for strengthening the PPU and with other measures to keep people and motivate people to apply for the teaching profession. But it is important for me to also say that we must not convey such a negative impression of the school and of the situation of the teachers that in this way we prevent people from applying for this profession. It is important that we send the message to young people that this is a profession that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e272	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e275	We can't help but note that this government came up with an evaluation of the teacher's study right after it joined, and will go out with a big message that we barely manage. So we've been waiting for almost three years. The council said we need a school environment that stimulates learning. Everyone wants that. But at the same time, such an environment is characterized by teachers with competence. A number of government investigations show that the number of unskilled teachers in school has risen sharply during the period we are now in. The right has always warned against it. We have demanded that we now look at recruitment and senior measures, but everything has been voted down. So when it comes to priorities, it appears that the government prioritises school leisure time and food over quality and school time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e282	That's not right. What we have done after the evaluation report from NOKUT on teacher training came is to launch a series of actions towards the institutions, i.e. the training places. There has been an opportunity, with the support of the Ministry, also financially, to follow up on various actions, precisely to improve some of the weaknesses identified by the evaluation, such as: contact with practice and some continuity in the study itself. You're going to look at this in a completely different context and with a much more complete angle. It's not right to say that we're prioritizing knowledge, we're prioritizing it to the extent that we can do it even more. It is also true that we have put in place quite a number of measures and have not been at rest for these three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e289	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e292	I have a question for the Minister of Culture and the Church. There are some ideological dividing lines in our society. One of them goes about how to view community. A task solved by the state and the municipality is seen by some as a common solution, while tasks undertaken by the family or non-governmental organisations become private solutions. I think, after reading the Soria Moria statement, that when the red-greens joined, there were sky-high expectations of all those who are doing voluntary work. At two annual conferences, the Prime Minister and the Council of State may not have exactly reduced expectations about everything to come. But what we've seen is a government that rules more and more grants, and that wants to run the organizations instead of releasing the volunteers. We look at how the voluntary register has been established, with little involvement bureaucratically – it may be difficult to be small – that the grassroots share has only turned the money between organisations instead of giving more, that the tax deduction has remained silent, and that the tendering regime has been difficult for these organisations. However, I believe that what seems to be the most unfair thing for voluntary Norway is that when, for example. The city's cafe for the disadvantaged is to buy a coffee machine, you have to pay 25 pst. VAT, but when McDonald's buys a coffee machine, you get away because they have to make money. This is a VAT reform that voluntary Norway has been waiting for. It is a VAT reform that voluntary Norway had deserved, because it had then been seen that the state rewards instead of levying fines on all the work done by non-governmental organisations. I understand that neither the Council of State nor the Prime Minister will be here this year at the annual conference of voluntary Norway. It was probably a little loudest to get, because this reform has been put at risk. Will VAT reform come, so that we do not get a penal tax on voluntary work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e301	Let me first say that the reason why the Council of State was not at the conference that the representative mentioned was that he had a case in Stortinget. I think the President and others would be very upset if the Council of State gave priority to a conference in front of a big debate. Let me also say that the VAT system is formally a matter for the Minister of Finance, but I have to answer in terms of voluntary policy, because that is my responsibility. In fact, we say in the 2009 government budget that voluntary action has estimated its VAT expenditure at NOK 1 billion, and that the government is willing to step up support for voluntary action equivalent to this sum, but that there will be a dialogue on how this is to be done. I have to say that the representative has a rather bold run when trying to present this government's policy as less ambitious for volunteering than one's own policy. On the contrary, the previous government gave many, many billions of tax dollars without ever being close to introducing any VAT exemption for volunteering. And all of the issues that mattered to volunteering in this period, the opposition has been opposed. Tippe reform, where the volunteer was promised NOK 1 billion in compensation for the automatic dropout, has among other things. The representative Eriksen's party fought with beaks and claws. In the last budget proposal that was put forward, it was said that volunteering did not need this money because it had made so much extra money on the vending machines. For example, the Red Cross sheep. 220 million. kr per year thanks to the reform that sport receives 300 million. kr per year. One billion more kroner, which you wouldn't have gotten with Dagrun Eriksen's policy. The grass root fraction, which will give 400-500 million. kr to the localities of volunteering, the lot represented by Eriksen is opposed. The cultural promise has meant NOK 2 billion more to Norwegian cultural life, of which volunteering has received much, Freefonds have received, volunteering centres have received, and many other purposes have been given – again the party represented by Eriksen was opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e312	I want to say thank you for the attack, but I get to say thank you for the answer. There's an ideological difference, and that's one of the reasons why we've voted differently and done different things in the way you want to rule or not control the voluntary Norway. I think it's incredibly important that we now get good, general arrangements instead of continuing to rule. It feels so bitter and unfair for those who work on a voluntary basis that the VAT reform does not come. In the 2007 budgets, 2008 and 2009, the Christian People's Party has gone into the process of bringing forward a case of tax exemptions and tax exemptions for non-governmental organisations. Why does the Red Cross have to pay VAT on the snowmobile that you buy to look for people, while the high mountain hotel is getting away? That's what this is about. I understand that it is more comfortable with NOK 1 billion that the Council of State can distribute in new and no, because then he gets many more press releases. But what voluntary Norway wants a clear answer to is: has the entire VAT reform been abolished?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e321	I think it's quite obvious that the Christian People's Party must have an ideology different from ours in terms of volunteering, because that ideology means you don't get the money you want. Red Cross may still pay VAT on snowmobiles, as they did when the Christian People's Party had the Minister of Volunteers, but unlike that time they get 220 million. kr more this year, which they would not get with the Christian People's Party in government. I don't know the price of a snowmobile per. Today's date, but I think you get a lot of snowmobiles for 220 million. kr per year. Voluntaryness does not live by ideology. Voluntary living – in the same way as the rest of us – is out of concrete money. The grassroots share, the volunteer billion, the cultural promise, a massive commitment to volunteering, tax incentives for fees for trainers and managers, tax incentives for employers' fees for voluntary organisations, all of this has been carried out in our period, and it strengthens volunteering. Then it helps little with fine words from Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e328	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e331	It warms the Advance Party that both the Christian People's Party and the Right are now following up our proposal to drop VAT on virtue and volunteering. We have also followed the Council of State Gish, which has promised the voluntary sector arrangements in the field of VAT many times, but not fulfilled. This has led to the fact that an overall Freewill Norway is raging at the Council of State, and that representatives of the government parties have been grossly dispersed in many contexts in this area. Let me take some examples from small businesses. Ljan Skole's Music Corps paid NOK 30 000 in VAT in 2007. The search Youth Team, which deals with youth discos and computer courses, has paid around NOK 100 000 a year. The Church's Bymission café The meeting place bought in food, laundry detergents and equipment for 1.6 million. 2008 kr, which means about 300000 kr in VAT. This is pointless! What is the background for not getting a solution to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e339	I can repeat what I said in my first answer, namely that the Ministry of Finance writes in its 2009 budget proposal that it is set to spend up to NOK 1 billion on resolving the VAT question for the voluntary sector. But we have to figure out how this is done, so that we reach volunteering in the best possible way and do this fairly. I also think it is absolutely incredible when the Progress Party sets an example for the school corps. Yes, it is possible that Ljan school corps, or whoever it was, have paid $30,000 in VAT on instruments. However, this increase, on a proposal from us and through the Cultural Promise, which was opposed to the Progress Party, has put in place an aid scheme of 10 million. kr of the year just to school corps for the purchase of instruments. Once again, volunteering lives on concrete appropriations, not on fine words in a big hall. None of the opposition parties has entered in their alternative budgets the exemption of VAT from voluntary activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e346	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e349	The framework conditions for the voluntary provision of money would be the same with the parties that are currently in opposition, as with the Council of State. But there's a difference in ideology, yes. There is a difference in the question of whether the Council of State is going to flag and select organisations and decide, or whether the organisations themselves should know automatically that once they have collected money, once they have stood and baked balls and sold them, 25 pst should not. the prize goes back to Kristin Halvorsen and the Ministry of Finance to distribute it to others. It is a completely different predictability for collection actions and for organisations operating, to know that they do not have to pay VAT or that they are getting VAT back. The blindfold pays 15 million. kr per year in VAT of their collected money, and Red Cross pays approx. 50 million. kr. For many small organisations, this means a lot. When is the State Council planning to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e354	I can only repeat that the Ministry of Finance has announced that this will be resolved, but that is the model we have to look at. I repeat that the government that Erna Solberg was in, did not propose any VAT exemption for volunteering, but it was proposed to drop the volunteer billion that would be paid in compensation for the loss of the automatic income. Again – good examples, from the representative of Solberg: the Blind Alliance just receives around 14–15 million. kr in the distribution key of the automatic reform. This money would have been gone if the previous government had been sitting. It's just reading the budget proposal, St.prp. No 1, from the Ministry of Culture and the Church in the autumn of 2005, signed by Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. The grass root fraction, which will give 400-500 million. The right to the local laws – not determined by Erna Solberg, not determined by the Government, not determined by any central elements of the organisations, but determined by the tippers, the people of Norway themselves – is therefore the right-wing party. Then I wonder, who wants us to sit here and decide? And who will let people decide... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e363	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e366	I'm glad we have a government council that prioritises the landfill. I was the author of the case that the Council of State uses as a reason not to be at the Conference on Freedom, and got the Conference on Freedom with a good margin! But I understand from the co-operation that the Secretary of State got from Freedom Norway, that the Council of State rather prioritised something else. What I want to ask is: what was clear at the conference in Freedom Norway is that we now have a voluntary register that will not be usable in relation to a VAT exemption system. So what we said here in the opposition, that now you run through a volunteer register that you don't know is capable of doing the job that you want a volunteer register to do, turns out to be right. My question to the Council of State is, isn't it a little awkward? I understand that it is difficult in relation to the VAT reform, I have a lot of understanding of that, but is it not a bit awkward that it turns out that you have pressed through a register that does not work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e373	Now the volunteer register is not fully established yet, so it's a little early to determine whether it works or not. If we're going to use the voluntary register to refund VAT, then there's a reimbursement system you're talking about, and not a VAT exemption, which former representatives here have talked about, that's just that volunteer is not allowed to pay VAT on their goods. How that model becomes, we haven't clarified yet. What we've said is that we want to use the billion it costs to get this in place. And just the volunteer register might be a useful tool. But the voluntary register is the desire of volunteering in any case, among other things. also because it is the base of the grass root fraction, which was also the opposite of the lot left. I think it's 400-500 million. kr begins to flow into the account of the corps, choirs and sports teams, local joints – grassroots in Norwegian voluntarity – not through the central section, not through the Stortinget, not through the department, not through the distribution system, but right to the fires in grassroots, then I think the Left, Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will have major explanation problems with why they were opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e380	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e383	I don't think it helps the voluntary sector that the Council of State shuts down the opposition and says it hasn't done enough. I think the voluntary sector wants one to listen to the voluntary sector, which says that we want VAT compensation, because it is a tool that we will use for investment and to exploit the hard work in the voluntary sector. Listen to the volunteering itself, to the organizations! When the opposition takes this up in the Question Time today, it's based on the Government's own promises, the expectations created in the Soria Moria Declaration, where there's reason to believe that the Government will do something about it. And then one has to focus on answering the volunteer, and not answering the opposition. Then I want to focus a little on gifts with tax deductions. 440,000 Norwegians provide money to the voluntary sector through this scheme. And it turns out that when you increased the amount in the previous accumulation period, the payments also increased. So people give money to the community. Why does the Government not want to strengthen this good arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e390	Once again, I think it's an advantage for the Council of State to respond to the opposition and not to volunteer. So I'm trying to answer the questions I get. There was a basis for an ideological distinction between the Government and the opposition. In this case, the difference is that during these four years, we have granted far more to volunteer – one volunteer billion through the tipping, two billion SEK through the cultural promise that also benefits the volunteering, the introduction of grassroots share, corps support, more to cows and more to grassroots root than it was before. We have retained the exemption scheme for taxes on gifts at exactly the same level as under the Bondevik regime. I think it's a nice arrangement. It stimulates volunteering. It has the disadvantage that those who receive the most gifts of private, thus also receive the most support from the State in the form of tax exemptions. But the arrangement is a fine addition to all the other arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e399	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e403	I have a question for the Minister of Research. I believe that most people in this Chamber agree that the climate crisis is a serious crisis. And we have it there, even if we have a financial crisis. I think most people once again believe that we should do something about that. In this context, the Left is concerned that research is very essential for us to be able to do something about the climate crisis – that we can prevent just what we are going to prevent, create a low-carbon society, ensure that we find solutions through food and technology development. We know that it is through targeted research and development that we are able to bring about the transition from today's society to the low-carbon society. Politically, with this hindrance, it happened a year ago that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party came together – not surprising to me, who has been sitting in such a government. And what is very special in a European context is that a centre-right coalition presses a centre-left coalition to become more ambitious. But the final result was a clear end result. In that final result, which has a number of points about how we can do something about the climate, the Government committed itself – almost exactly a year ago – to presenting a stepping-up plan for climate research during 2008. It hasn't happened. So my question to the Minister of Research is, how does the Minister of Research feel about living with such a breach of contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e412	The roadmap was presented in December 2008, and there is a group that we call Climate21, led by Siri Hatlen, who will have his first meeting now on Friday. This group shall make the concrete proposals for the implementation of the escalation plan. The plan's there. I am very pleased that the climate agreement gave us the opportunity to invest in climate research. We have already started work on getting Environmental Energy Research Centres (FMEs), which, in cooperation with the Research Council, are both established and will be established, as well as the efforts on climate research already made by the Research Council. So the climate agreement's research money is very well spent both on these centers and on what they can do, because here we have to make sure that the quality is good. And I fully agree with the representative that there is a certain transformation in some of these environments to think alternatively and to think about energy-friendly solutions and renewable solutions. It's a big device going on. As I said, the escalation plan was presented in December 2008. Work is in progress. And I would be very pleased to be able to present the concrete initiative that the Klima21 Group will have to make in a reasonably short time. They shall operationalise what is in the escalating plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e421	I thank you for your answer. But the plans that Stortinget deals with treat Stortinget because Stortinget has been presented to them – that is the level of precision I had in my question. Of course, that's what we're going to do, because then we know that we're moving forward on purpose. Even if it's done a pre-work, it's the Stortinge that's going to have it. And I have to say that when the Stortinget doesn't now have it, it becomes extra sad, considering that the Council of State's party trap Aid and Environmental Protection Minister Erik Solheim in quite precise and I would say strong laws of order have been green-painting the Government's crisis policy, not to mention the crisis package that is coming. He has expressed himself sharply, clearly and clearly about it – praiseworthy, I would say, on the basis of the ideals I stand for. So that's why my question is: can we now expect this concrete plan, which the Stortinge can discuss and deal with in order to step up climate research in the context of the crisis package that is coming, and that the Stortinge can be actively allowed to continue the climate reconciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e428	Of course, the Storting must be able to expect it. I will refer to the budget proposal from the Ministry of Knowledge for the year we are in now. There this is mentioned, and I ask the representative to study again what it says. I fully agree with my party-wide minister for environmental protection that everything that is done now, not least about the crisis package, must have a very green profile. What's important is that we can get to what's going to be in the shorter term. But of course, it is also an important part of the green stamp that we are able to put in place good processes in climate research and energy research. I can assure you that this is in safe hands. There is a process that is in progress and progress. I myself am very pleased that we have started so many important actors already, who are actually prepared to turn around and think alternatively and think differently, including in research. I am very pleased with Left's support in this matter, and I shall promise... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e437	There will be follow-up questions – Åse M. Schmidt.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e440	Climate research is part of the overall picture of research. In the four years that have come to pass, the Progress Party has made a very strong commitment to research and innovation. It is one of the most important pillars that we need to get to ensure that Norway is at the forefront of knowledge in the future. We also believe that research needs to be seen in a much wider context, and that quality, long-termity and willingness to use technology should and must become much more focused. The fact that research is an area that has also been treated in a vote during this four-year period is not so much doubt. At the Lerkendal Conference, where I was present, and where also the Council of State was present, it was quite clear that the Council of State wanted a greater pressure from the research communities in order to be able to get help from the government to get more funding for research. Furthermore, I would also like to say that the Council of State made the list high when it comes to creating expectations for the new research report that the Government has notified. What opportunities does the Council of State think she has now had for this in the last six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e451	We need to have high ambitions in research. Especially when it comes to environmental and climate research, we have been helped by the climate agreement here in Stortinget, which unfortunately the Progress Party was not involved. That's good drag help from the other opposition parties, which makes us get a good foundation for this research as well. If we hadn't had this climate agreement here in Stortinget, we would have had a bigger challenge in bringing the breadth of political Norway into this. So it is very regrettable that the Progress Party is not involved. But I have good hopes of fulfilling the ambitions of important new knowledge that we need through research. We have managed to increase the research budget quite significantly. As I said in a previous answer here, we have increased the funding for the Research Fund by NOK 12 billion. Some of these are earmarked for equipment, which is an important part of the research effort, but also heads — recruitment — are important. Here we try to think completely: better equipment, more people and better themes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e458	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e461	The climate problems we face are man-made. That means we're going to have man-made solutions for them as well. It's been a year since the Stortinget adopted a climate settlement that dramatically improved the government's climate policy. Unfortunately, the government is already lagging behind – just one year later – in relation to what the climate agreement said you should do. Research, and especially climate research, will help to find tomorrow's solutions. It shall contribute to lower emissions, not least in the context of carbon capture and storage, and promote products with less environmental impacts. The second is that research creates jobs. Research is helping to safeguard our future well-being and provides a basis for it as well. Why, then, does the Government agree to pull its feet in after a case in research, and now the very last in climate research, when we know how important it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e468	I do not at all recognize the picture that the representative describes. So we've followed up the climate agreement by granting 300 million. kr in the 2009 budget for research and development in renewable energy and carbon capture and storage. We have set up environmentally friendly energy centres. The Research Council is working on this matter, and it is important to have quality in the research we are going to do. We have allocated money to wide-ranging activities, i.e. strengthening five different programmes that were already in the Research Council, and we have also allocated money to basic research, recruitment and infrastructure – all in order to get climate research in place. It's a very good follow-up, I think, of the climate agreement that also Right – good enough – was on. That's an incredibly good starting point for something. I think we have the right pace, but it's very important that we make sure that the quality of what we do is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e475	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e479	I seem to have made two important confessions. One is that there is a much stronger commitment to solving the economic crisis than it is to solve, for example. the technological crisis in environmental research. The second recognition is that a quantum leap in the development of environmental technologies is needed if we are to get some way to solve this environmental crisis. Norway has been given a very central role internationally, not least from the EU, in the context of the updated Roadmap for Infrastructure Development in Environmental Technologies. Two institutions in Norway have been specifically designated. It's NTNU and UNIS, or the Svalbard environment. In the case of NTNU, they need support to expand, among others. research sites for guest researchers. UNIS needs both the recruitment of students and an increase on the research page. And here you're told that you're going to cut, instead of increasing. What does the Council of State have to say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e488	The government sees the solutions to the economic crisis as also an important opportunity to resolve the environmental crisis. That is why we think green in the face of a crisis solution, and it is therefore important not to forget that we have an environmental crisis when we are about to set up the measures in the crisis package in the context of the economic crisis. Now let there be an answer to one of the challenges of the representative. Of course, with regard to conditions in special areas, where they are engaged in important technological development and environmental research, we closely follow what is happening at Svalbard, which is a very important research platform for Norway, and what is happening in important university environments. But here the representative can be convinced that we are capable of both strengthening the possibilities for technological development and at the same time strengthening research on the alternative, for both are important. We have to think alternately, and we have to have research environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e495	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e498	I would like to refer to Today's Business Today, where it is clear that the Council of State Sylvia Brustad has written a letter to the Research Council at the invitation of the Norwegian Industry. In her letter she asked the Research Council to give priority to economic development and to meet the demands of Norwegian Industry. She has not chosen to prioritise more money to the Research Council, but has clearly stated that because business is facing challenges, it is important that the research that this is about is prioritised in front of other research. My question to the Minister for Research is quite simple: when no more money is allocated, but one of her fellow Councillors asks the Research Council to give priority to one area, which area should be given priority? Is that climate research? Is it medical research? What kind of research does the Government think is not so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e505	The Government's various government councils participate in the Government's Research Committee, where we have regular discussions about the Government's research effort in total. One of our most important tools is the Research Council. Through the Research Council, we are in common to contribute to the development of good programmes not only in business research, which can also have an environmental turnaround, but also in environmental research and welfare research. There will be a presentation of the various thematic efforts in the Research Communication, which we are now working on, but I can assure the representative that the Councils are united on important research efforts, and that although we may initially have different desires for the different sectors, we can manage that cooperation, both in the signals towards the Research Council and in the final distribution of research funds. So here I think we're going to be able to stimulate both industry and business and at the same time bet on, for example. climate research.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e512	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e515	My question goes to Councillor Huitfeldt. A short time ago, children and young people with a migrant background went berserk in the streets outside here, with attacks on older people, on other peaceful demonstrators, on the police, etc. You throw bottles, rocks, etc. and went berserk and broken shops. As I have understood in the media, those involved will receive little or no punishment. It's scary. But even more frightening is the fact that when you hear the young people being interviewed on TV and the comment is that they thought it was fun, and that they would like to participate in something like this again. Of course, the parents of these young people have done a bad job, but society has also done a bad job in terms of these groups. I believe this is a result of the labour-party-led geniusist immigration policy, where no demands are made on parents and on young people. Integration measures in Norway are now spending SEK 5.3 billion. Under the current government, this amount has increased by more than 800 million. kr. My question to the Council of State is whether she thinks this use of money is successful – whether it is an example of a successful integration policy that large groups of children and young people have fallen so fundamentally outside our society and do not respect the values that are central to our society – and what the Council of State believes must be done to these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e528	Last week I noticed that Siv Jensen supported strong accusations against Kåre Willoch about antisemitism, and said that Willoch was not nuanced enough when it came to separating Jews and Israelis. It is clear that this has not been implemented in the rest of the policy for the Progress Party. Now it's painted with a wide pen: all minority youths are going to be blamed for what's happened in Oslo. With regard to the use of community punishment, I would like to stress that it was the City Council of the Progress Party that said that these young people should get community punishment – to get the sense of making up for themselves. I would say that Norwegian integration policy is successful. I would like to say that the City Council in Oslo, with representatives from both the Right and the Advancement Party, has done a very good job in the last few days and worked very closely with the police, who have also done a thorough job and called these young people together with their families into a worrying conversation. There's no «good» conversation; it's a serious conversation, and the police have very good experience. I would also like to stress that the Progress Party has been in power in this city for quite many years and must therefore take part in the responsibility for the fact that the offer to young people may not be good enough. But now let's think about it in the long term. I think it's very serious when we see young people being dragged into criminal behavior when they're so young. One thing is what punishment they get now, but my concern is also related to what happens to these young people in ten years, in 15 years. - Where are they? I will therefore, in cooperation with the Minister of Justice, make some concrete proposals on this at a press conference later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e541	I registered that what has been done to these groups has been done by the City Council in Oslo, with representatives from the Progress Party and the Right. Thus, no action has been or will be taken by the Council of State. Nor is there any form of self-criticism regarding the billions spent by the current government on integration actions – which are obviously wrong. So another part of the problem. A Muslim school is planned in Oslo. The Progress Party is a member of the Health Schools, but we are very concerned that it should contribute to a worse integration than is currently the case. In view of these events that we have now had in Oslo – with a lack of integration, with a lack of respect for Western values such as freedom of expression and democracy – does the Council of State believe that establishing a Muslim school in Oslo is recommending in view of the job to be done to children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e550	I record that the Progress Party continues its very unsound description of these riots. One third of these young people were Norwegian. These are our young people, and we have to take responsibility for them. As regards the question of Muslim schools, this must be dealt with under the new Private School Act, which is much more restrictive than the Advance Party wants. They want a free establishment of in-house schools and private schools, without any requirements. With the policies of the Advance Party, we would have far more fresh schools – including those of a Muslim nature – than what we get with a good private school law that opens up religious and pedagogical alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e557	There will be follow-up questions – first Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e561	I agree with the Council of State that at least one third of these young people were Norwegian. Actually, they were all Norwegian, if we think about it, because at some point you actually become Norwegian even if you have a parent who comes from another country. I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus that this should be handled hand in hand. Let's agree on that. But the question is, what do we do? I think what we've seen in Oslo in the last few days is exciting. I also remember in 2002, when there were unfortunate situations in Sweden, that the government took the initiative for a dialogue conference where these questions were raised. On the right, we have had a lot of money in proposals for a government budget targeting weak groups in terms of quotas for non-governmental organisations to bring people with them. What will the Council of State do to improve social communication in our society to address such cases as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e570	I am recording here the highly nuanced and responsible attitude of the Right towards these problems. I also want to take the opportunity to praise Erling Lae and the efforts he has made in Oslo in the last few days. So to the question of dialogue. There was a dialogue meeting in Oslo on Sunday. It was very successful. I have also understood that some Jewish children in Oslo have not had it so easily in the last few days, and that many children with Muslim background have also felt that they have had to take responsibility for things they are not in any way responsible for. So I want to initiate a meeting with both Jewish and Muslim children with a view to improving dialogue, because I think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e577	Karin S. Woldseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e580	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Culture. In the light of the events of the last weeks, we have experienced aggressive and frustrated youths who have terrorized Oslo, the inhabitants of Oslo and the streets of Oslo. It is obvious that very many of these young people, two thirds of them, have a minority background. They have not adapted and do not feel belonging to Norwegian society. We have set behind us a year of diversity that has cost millions, as well as the Government's desire to continue this in 2009 as well – so successfully the Government realized that this was. But the Council of State has been thinking about how to catch up with this group of young people in years of diversity. two? You can't claim that he has succeeded in capturing these young people in 2008, when we see how aggressive, frustrated and misadapted these young people are?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e589	I agree with my colleague Huitfeldt that one should be careful to paint with a broad brush and stigmatize individual groups. I think we should treat people with minority backgrounds in the same way that we treat other people – as individuals who are as different as those who have ethnic Norwegian backgrounds. I have a great deal of faith in cultural life and the role of the voluntary sector in society. Giving good growth conditions, identity and belonging no matter what kind of parents and background you have is a safety issue and a good way to meet society. The more important it is that we continue the efforts we have made, with – as mentioned earlier – NOK 2 billion more to culture. This gives more activity throughout the country, offering many different backgrounds to children and young people. I hope we can continue that, and not get the cuts in this business that the Progress Party's alternative budget would have involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e596	Last main question – from the Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e599	My question goes to the Minister of Culture and relates to the income of non-governmental organisations — because in the wake of changes in gambling policy, there is less money in the register with non-governmental organisations. Now, in connection with previous questions, the government's advice has been on this tipped-off bill, which he often comes back to. But it's not a permanent billion, it's a billion that's a transition to a situation where organizations have to count on less money in cash. That's the same thing with the grass root fraction. We can probably discuss how it's going to work, but a lot more gamblers probably won't do it either. There have been increases in budgets in recent years. We've helped support each of these heads, so that's where we're going to be roughly the same. Equally full, billions are being cut. In that light, we have earlier in this questioning process been on the question of VAT. I'm not going to come back to it now, just point out that of course it's also a very important theme to actually get more money into the system, not just the money that we're discussing the device on. But I also want to look at other types of games – to strengthen and get more money into the system. What we've seen now is a development in online games where 7 billion dollars a year goes straight out of the country on games we don't have any control over how it's designed, and where Norwegian purposes don't get a single penny. The right was long opposed to dealing with online gambling schemes in Norway, but we have come to the conclusion that the same considerations apply there as in the reasoning behind the slot machines – that, after all, it must be better to have control of a system, control the content of the games, bring the money to Norwegian use. We believe that this is a topic that should now be addressed and implemented. Is the Minister of Culture prepared to make sure that this money goes for Norwegian purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e610	Let me first say something about the volunteer billion. It's actually two billion. One is a billion that one now uses from the Norwegian Tipping fund in the years 2008-2009 to build a bridge between the old Norwegian Tipping payment of 2.5 billion, to nearly 3.5 billion a year. We have stated that from 2010 this billion will be permanent. Every year, volunteering will receive one billion more. This is due, inter alia, to: the game terminals currently outsourced, which will generate revenues, and which the opposition, inter alia. Right, in many cities have fought very actively. If they had not received that income, the volunteer had not received this money either. The representative Thommessen addresses a very important issue: all the games that are now offered on the Internet from servers abroad that have no social control, which creates the same amount of gambling addiction for those who are affected and who don't give any money to Norwegian volunteering. How are we going to meet this? We have set up a game policy in Norway that has been supported by both the previous government and this, namely that it is Norwegian Typing who will be in charge of the games in Norway, because then we have direct control and can intervene immediately as a game creates social problems. We've seen what legal processes we get into very quickly when we have other actors fighting for their revenues, when game operators run counter to restrictions such as government and big business to ensure social responsibility. A solution to what Thommessen addresses could be that Norsk Tipping – like Svenska Spel in Sweden, which is the equivalent – offers games via the Internet and develops offers there that are socially responsible. We haven't concluded that this is the right preliminary, but it's clear that the Thommess argument that it's better to offer something online that's responsible than to leave everything to foreign actors, who are without limitation, who don't give money to volunteer, is a good reasoning. But for the time being, we have been committed to combating the gambling addiction that the machines entailed, and not expanding the activity of Norwegian Typing online.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e619	I thank you for what I experience as a response in many ways, but I would like to stress the importance of getting on with this, as it is currently happening. Turning the device on a market that has been established is not easy. Now the Norwegian audience has made friends to play on international servers, and the longer it goes, the harder it actually gets to get the players back to Norway again. My question to the Council of State is, When will he possibly start such a work? I'm not giving up on it, because I have a few seconds left. We have also proposed opening up Norwegian Tipping Commissions for other types of games, where one could imagine a broader device, where the humanitarian organisations could also have the opportunity to establish new gaming arrangements within this Commission network. Is there any government council considering meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e628	I'm not very positive about that idea, because I'm afraid you get a lot of games that spend a lot of advertising money on competing with each other, and with the result maybe a little bit more gambling pressure. I am also afraid that very much of the money that could go to non-governmental organisations, instead goes to marketing and competition between these games. Then it is better that Norsk Tipping develops its gaming portfolio and rather includes volunteering in a better way. It is also often very difficult to say which organisations will be allowed to offer such games. If one organisation is allowed, this organisation gets all the money, instead of going to the edge of Norwegian volunteering. Remember one thing, which I don't think the opposition has fully absorbed: the grassroots ratio means a fantastic democratization of the Norwegian Typing award. Instead of only the specific organisations mentioned in the law, who receive money, in principle all non-governmental organisations will now be able to participate in the profits of Norwegian Typing. It's a fantastic invitation to say that this is our joint gaming company, which is responsible, and which provides money for grassroots.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e635	For the sake of time, there will be only one follow-up question – Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e639	We hear that the Council of State is talking about this billion that he's going to give to the voluntary sector, but he forgets and fails to tell us that his party together with the other parties here in the Storting, with the exception of the Advance Party, has removed 5 billion kroner from the volunteer. So I don't think it's very impressive. I don't think it's very impressive either when he now talks about looking at whether Norsk Tipping will also get a monopoly on online games. I think that's an incredibly scary thought. Would it not have been better if a concession had been put in place on the international servers and entered into dialogue with the international gambling companies, so that money had been given for both sport and volunteering? Or can we now expect the Council of State to bring a total ban on online gambling across international servers in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e646	It's not up to us to give a total ban on foreign games. They are on servers in other countries and are governed by the laws of other countries. There are hundreds, if not thousands, of companies around the world offering games on the Internet. It would be completely impossible to imagine that we were going to start licensing out to all of these. We could have licensed some of them, but still all of the others would be able to offer games unlimited to Norway. What we can do is call Norwegian Typing as our socially responsible gaming company, and not let go of all those who have the opportunity to offer anything, without limits to social responsibility. The grassroots percentage is one way to say to the Norwegian people that Norwegian Tipping money strengthens the volunteer in Norway. Volunteering is very concerned about this as well, and strongly against the proposals of the Progress Party to liberalise the gaming market and to release foreign gambling companies. Here, I think the government is on the verge of sport and with the grassroots of culture and the willingness to call about the income they get from Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e651	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e656	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 2 and 3 from Arne Sortevik and Anne Margrethe Larsen, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a disease. Question 12, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e669	We go to question 1, which this time is not from Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance, but instead from another right-wing man, Gunnar Gundersen, to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e675	I want to ask the Minister of Finance a question: «The Minister of Finance spoke in December warmly and intensely about the need for interest cuts. The banks felt a great pressure to deliver according to the Government's wishes and requirements. Most banks have now cut by about 2 percentage points. In the Financial Newspaper on 7 January we can read that the Treasury loan fund has announced a reduced cut of 0.9 percentage points, and that will only apply from April. Is the State Council satisfied that the State's own bank for students, the State Loan Fund, is making a significantly lower interest rate than that provided by banks?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e684	Nothing is as refreshing as a right-wing man on a Wednesday morning, no matter who it is, and what theme is up. Let me really answer this question, because many customers, both in the State Treasury and in the House Bank, wonder why not the interest on their loans goes down as fast as it does in the market. Most people may have understood the context, but I can take it one more time. Norway’s Bank has reduced the interest rate from 5.75 p.m. to 3 pst. over a period of time. Three months of money market interest rates have fallen by more than 3 percentage points since last autumn, and bank lending rates are falling. This means that the borrowing rate of the State's loan fund will also fall, but they have a different form of interest rate fixing, and the method of calculating the interest rate implies a slightly more gradual decline in interest rates. The method for the calculation of the interest rate in the State Loan Fund for Education was adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 1998. The floating rate is calculated on the basis of interest rates on short-term sovereign debt with zero to three months remaining maturity. The observation period is three months, and interest observed in one quarter will be used for the interest rates relating to two quarters later. The long observation period contributes to the smoothing of the fluctuations in the borrowing rate. It implies that the effect of a fall in market interest rates only comes after some time. Similarly, it will also take some time for a rise in market interest rates to increase lending rates in the Loan Fund. Over time, the interest rate offer to the customers of the Loan Fund is very favourable. Customers in the State Educational Loan Fund can also guard against fluctuating interest rates by binding interest rates for three, five or ten years. If you want to translate this, that means that the interest rate in the Loan Box has a backlog. We cut top and bottom, because it evens out. A regular customer in the Loan Fund might have a student loan that runs for 20 years. The interest rate will be slightly later, but the interest rate will also be a little bit later, and that means that they have a positive loan in sum. I think the customers in the Loan Bank have noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e699	As a good right-hand man, I have also understood the context before. But this question is based on a look-up in the Financial Newspaper on 7 January, about a female student who had sat down and calculated how much interest should have gone down. She believes it should have dropped another 0.7 pst., based on the calculation models that the Council of State has now explained. I think in a few years' time there's little comfort for those who are now sitting with a big aftertaste, that they can expect to hang after when it goes up again, because there's a part of the picture here. The situation is illustrated by the rapid change in market rates. The interest rate in the private banks is now rapidly moving down to the 4th – perhaps below it. A natural follow-up question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council not see that the State's loan fund now provides for interest on the basis of an anticipatory method and that a more market-oriented rate of interest should be set for loans in the State's loan fund, in order to follow the movements of the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e710	The right is, of course, free to wish the State Treasury to make its interest rate determination on the basis of a different and more market-based system. But it is in the case of a case that has to be decided by the Storting, because it is the Storing that has decided that it should be done in this way. The advantage of a consumer perspective is that the top and bottom in terms of the level of interest in the Loan Fund is evened out – you get a share in the fall in interest rates, but it comes a little later. The difference between Norwegian bank customers and bank customers in very many other countries is that far fewer customers have fixed-rate loans. This means that the level of interest rates relative to household income and expenditure is much more related to market fluctuations. That is why we have offered fixed-rate loans to the customers in the State Loan Fund. You could even it out a little bit more. That means you get the same advantage, but just a little bit different. Otherwise, I have to say that the state loan fund is a very important part of the Norwegian education policy. You get a loan without risk being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e719	That's a big deal. With regard to the choice between a short-term and a long-term fixation of interest rates, there was a strong consensus: the Stortinge has adopted the principles for setting interest rates. There was an alternative proposal on the right during the budgetary procedure on 12 December last year, which was then voted down. It becomes a bit paradoxical when the December Council was very eager to point out that it was on the will of the private banks to bring down interest rates, while in the same budget debate, on December 12, the representative of the SV Lena Jensen heard that there was a question of funding to what extent interest rates could be lowered. Then again the question: is the Council of State of the opinion that it is right that interest rates and conditions in state and private banks should be so different?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e728	Now I don't think we're just discussing apples and pears here, but a whole fruit basket. There are a lot of elements in this. One is, how do you set the interest rate in the State Treasury? So you're going to do that with a poster, as I explained in the answer. That means that all of the customers get a share in the interest rate decrease, but at a little later. This also means that the interest rate is lower for a longer period of time when the interest rate is rising, so it allows for a lot of hurries in the future when the Norwegian economy may rise again and interest rates rise. So this evens out. Another question is, how do you rate a loan that doesn't evaluate risk? The government's loan fund does not assess risk. All eligible persons under the educational criterion are granted a loan. It's a loan that's cancelled if you die, that you can get a deferral of payment and free of interest if you're out of business. It's a social device. This, of course, makes it impossible to compare a social loan scheme, as is the state loan fund, fully with loans granted on market terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e755	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e761	This question, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e764	‘In the evening post on 13 January, it was possible to read that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs refused to sign the EU’s clear condemnation of the execution of Wo Weihan in China. The EU Council of Ministers issued a strong condemnation both of the execution and of the arrest and conviction of Wo, not in line with international standards. It has been Norwegian practice to join the EU in this type of human rights case. What is the Foreign Minister’s reason for not supporting the EU’s condemnation of the execution of Wo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e771	This government has already stated in its Declaration of Accession that the fight against the death penalty must be given priority. Norway is and will continue to be a visible opponent of all forms of death penalty. Work needs to be handled both in concrete terms and at a more general political level. We are working against the death penalty both in international bodies and through active cooperation with human rights organisations and like-minded countries. We regularly take up the use of the death penalty on a principle basis with countries where this is practised. It also applies to China. State Secretary Johansen raised the death penalty during the last meeting of the human rights dialogue last October. Norway also responds in individual cases. When we become aware of planned executions in cases involving minors, pregnant women or persons who are not subject to criminal law, or where the execution is carried out in a particularly inhumane manner, we protest to the responsible authorities – alone or with the EU or others. We're doing this to a number of countries. Norway and the EU are in line and believe that such executions are contrary to international law. In 2008, Norway, among others, with more reactions to Iran in cases involving minors. We believe that such protests benefit, and regardless of the outcome in each case, we believe that it is important to maintain a visible pressure. In some cases, we also know that we have helped save lives. In this specific case, Norway was asked, with a few hours' notice, to join an EU declaration condemning the execution of Wo Weihan who was executed for espionage. It was clear that the case was not within the group of individual cases that I mentioned instead, where the EU and we regularly protest. The EU argued that the trial against Wo Weihan was contrary to international legal certainty guarantees and standards. When we are offered to join this type of statement, we want to make an independent assessment. In this case, we did not allow the time to make our own assessment of the trial against Wo Weihan. The EU text also referred directly to the EU's human rights dialogue with China, and was therefore not as natural for Norway as for foreign countries to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e793	This appears to be a rather strange response – where, on the one hand, the Council of State strongly argues for the importance of visibility in the fight against the death penalty, while clearly having light and light light to find a reason not to join the EU in this case. Let me remind you that Norway has joined all EU declarations on the death penalty, with two exceptions. And this is one of them. The Councils of State show, inter alia: that Secretary of State Raymond Johansen was in China in a so-called human rights dialogue just before the execution. My first question is, Is it so that the State Secretary then addressed the matter to Wo? That, I think, is an important question to clarify. And the second is, when the government has now had some more time to look at this matter, is it self-critical that you did not join the EU declaration? This isn't just about the international law, it's also about the way Wo was arrested, and the way he was accused. This concerns the whole case, which is in the EU's grounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e802	I'm aware that Secretary of State Johansen had a human rights dialogue in October. Which issues were specifically addressed, I cannot answer here. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs may need to come back to this. As far as general cooperation with the EU is concerned, in a number of cases that have been carried out against people in a way that is completely contrary to international law, Norway and the EU have been in line and protested at the same time. In this case, where there were questions about international legal security guarantees and standards, Norway must also be able to make an independent assessment. And it did not allow the period until the EU had to send its protest. That was also the way I said in my answer, that this had a design based on the human rights dialogue that the EU has with China. It is not part of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e809	This case has caused very strong reactions in human rights circles internationally, but also in Norway. I note that the Secretary-General of Amnesty International in Norway says the government should be ashamed. I agree. China-expert Bøckmann says that the human rights dialogue is not worth much if you don't respond to such issues. It's close to seeing that the Government also shows the infallibility and naivety of its relationship with the human rights violations in Cuba. You can wonder if it's SV's hand that's on this -- not to show clarity and clarity to the last Communist states -- or whether it's that you're afraid to lose some commercial contracts. But let me repeat the question I asked, that now, as the government has had some time, is self-criticism that you did not join the EU's condemnation of the execution and the way in which the case was dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e818	Let me stress that the Government is against all forms of death penalty. We work towards it and address it both on a principle basis to the countries that practice it, and in individual matters. With regard to this matter, and all the issues we have along the way, it is because we have a high focus on it, we will always go through the cases and evaluate the way we practice this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e828	My question goes to the Minister of Defence – as Minister of Defence: ‘The size of the defence has determined in the long-term plan that Bardufoss air station shall be developed as the main base for the helicopter in the defence and that 334, 337 and 339 quadrants shall be organised under the joint management of Bardufoss air station. I am also aware that the reception of the new unit helicopter NH90 starts in the autumn of 2010. What is done to plan and prepare the development of Bardufoss air station as the main base for the future helicopter structure of the defence?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e837	The stork has decided that the 334, 337 and 339 Quadrons will be organized under a joint command at Bardufoss Air Station. The organisation of the helicopter structure facilitates synergies, both on the operational side and in terms of logistics. It also contributes to the rational operation of the future helicopter fleet. The operational centre of gravity of these helicopters will be in North Norway, and Bardufoss has proximity to priority areas of operation. The main base for helicopters on Bardufoss shall be fully operational for all elements by 1 January 2013 at the latest. Substantial funds have been allocated to the establishment of this base. Defence construction will start the planning of necessary dwellings, warehouses and maintenance facilities, administrative buildings and other infrastructure in the autumn of 2009, starting from the construction of the first summer/harvest 2010 projects. This is in addition to the exploitation of existing property, construction and facilities at Bardufoss air station. There are several parallel activities that will affect how Bardufoss airstation becomes visible and the progress of development. The transfer of Army management to Bardufoss triggers the need to examine the possibilities of co-location in order to maximise the rational use of property, construction and facilities in the area. For the whole, the planning of the main base must also take into account the exposure to support the frigate weapon and the Coast Guard in South Norway, as well as the feasibility study on the establishment of a national helicopter competence centre. The Chief of Defence has been assigned to establish the main helicopter base at Bardufoss as soon as possible, and no later than 1 January 2013. The necessary measures in the field of property, construction and installations at the air station will be taken when the necessary clarifications have been made and as mentioned are already in progress. It is added to the construction start of the summer/harvest 2010. As I have explained, the preparations are on track to comply with the Storting decision on the long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e852	I thank the Council of State for a clear and good answer. I have received many enquiries from defence-related people in the north, who have felt some uncertainty and who are still asking what progress is in this area according to the agreed plan. Now I understand that the establishment of Bardufoss as the main base for the helicopter will start as early as this year. Is this correct? In this context, I would also like to ask when we can expect the new NH90 helicopters to be operational and operational.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e861	Yes, as I said, the project preparation is already underway. Until the autumn, Defence Building will start the concrete planning of the construction projects. It is planned to start construction in summer/harvest 2010. In the case of the NH90 helicopters and when they are operational, there has been a project of continuous deferrals. The current plan is that the NH90 helicopters for the Coast Guard will arrive in 2010. These will then replace the 337-square-dron Lynx helicopters, located in and operated by Bardufoss. We have in St. prp. No 1 for the financial year 2009 mentioned that there is a certain risk of additional delays. The planning of the reception of the NH90 will be dealt with continuously by the Air Force and the Defence Logistics Organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e870	I thank you again for the answer. I assume that this is so clarifying that you can now plan up north not only within this area, but also in other areas, so that you can support all the good bets that are now being made within the Defence of the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e881	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘Norway has a number of war memories and not least war history to take care of. Today there's a lot of positive attention around the Defense and its history, a lot because of the film 'Max Manus', which now goes too full-scale. How will the Council of State contribute to precisely our war memories, such as that? The events on 9 April 1940 in Elverum where King Haakon said his famous no to the Germans, and later in Nybergsund on 11 April where the government said its no to Quisling as prime minister, both in Hedmark, is well preserved for the later?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e890	Throughout the country, a number of monuments have been erected about people and events associated with the war. In connection with the important events in Hedmark on which the representative is based, Bautas have been traveled in Elverum and Nybergsund. We all have a responsibility to continue memories of the days of war. This is an important part of Norway's history. The vast majority of monuments have been built on local initiative. Persons or organisations behind them will be responsible for their oversight and maintenance. A liability will also lie on the landowner, who has given up a memorial. In many cases, the municipality is the landowner. In most municipalities, these memorials are kept in claim and taken care of. The defense has also built monuments, both inside and outside military territory. These are maintained and maintained by the Defence. Where military departments made a special effort during the war, there are several sites dedicated to the monuments. As an example, I will mention H.M. the King's Garden, which each year participates with its personnel at Mid Forest and at Lundehögda. The interest in a memorial may diminish over time. This can happen because the original initiators fall away or because the organisations that took the initiative to travel a memorial are being dropped. Then the municipalities have to take a special responsibility. Even where a memorial has been built on a private basis, the municipality concerned should take respectful responsibility for this type of cultural object. The defence today takes a clear responsibility for our common cultural heritage, including: through the national fastening works, at the museums, and also through support and participation in markings of important historical events. Finally, let me stress that the defence has often contributed financially to the establishment of various memorials from the war. We continue to receive requests for this, and seek as far as possible to support various events and memorials associated with World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e903	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not quite satisfied. I understand the Council of State so that it is the municipality or private that has to take the greatest responsibility for the observance of these monuments. I totally disagree with that. These are memorials of people who were willing to sacrifice the greatest sacrifice, i.e. life, for Norway to remain an independent country. Then it must be Norway that has to take responsibility for the observance of these monuments, not a municipality, individual, association or whatever it may be, which often has a very bad economy. The country of Norway must then afford to take care of all of these. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e910	I fully agree that we should take good care of these monuments and keep them in claim in a responsible and respectful way. Equally full, there are many monuments, and they are scattered around the country, and we depend on those who have been able to travel a memorial to participate in the maintenance. This is a work that must be done in a common effort. In some cases, it is most practical that the municipality takes care of this, just as they take care of a number of other monuments. Sometimes it's clear that the state is doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e915	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer, which I am still not satisfied with. I believe that peace is not something that comes of itself, it must be worked for. In this case, it's the story of World War II, and we also have stories backwards about other wars, and if we can't take care of these memorials properly, how is peace going? It's not without reason that the film that I mention in my question goes too full a house. It's not without reason that elsewhere in the world you don't have the peace that we have. And then the country of Norway had to preserve its memories of those who were willing to sacrifice everything, including their lives, in order for Norway to be an independent country. It can't work. It cannot be up to the individual municipality, which can often have a shaky economy, a good association or whatever it is. We have to afford this. Don't the Council of State agree? I'll ask you again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e924	As I said, a number of memorials have been raised. They stand many places across the whole country. I fully agree that the state of Norway, Norway as a country and we shall all respect these monuments. But sometimes it is appropriate that this be done in the municipalities, where these memorials are. Working for peace is one of the most important things we do. And it's a very important lesson after World War II that we still have to work for the peace that we have very easily to take for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e934	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Minister of Health highlighted the need for improved prevention in health services during the Steering Dialogue Conference in Steinkjer. The diabetes problem was used as an example. Can the Council of State provide a justification why the Government has not followed up the national diabetes strategy by the necessary means in 2009, precisely to increase prevention efforts, in order to prevent late complications and unnecessary suffering for people suffering from diabetes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e943	The 2006–2010 National Diabetes Strategy contains many important instruments and measures. It is followed up, among others. with the development of treatment guidelines, with a dedicated information campaign and support for, inter alia: counterpart work. We know that lifestyle is of great importance for the development of type 2 diabetes. Many of the measures in the diabetes strategy will therefore be general lifestyle measures involving more patient groups and requiring a broader approach than donating earmarked funds to the diabetes strategy. Focusing on disease prevention is very important if we are to have a sustainable health service in the future. In the new interaction reform that the Government will present in April, prevention will be an important topic. For diseases such as type 2 diabetes, individual patients will need services from different parts of the healthcare system, where a solid community health service and good interaction will be important to respond to patients’ needs. The establishment of the interaction reform facilitates the achievement of the objectives of the national strategy for the field of diabetes. The government follows up the Soria Moria declaration and has, among other things, low-threshold measures adapted to local challenges, assumptions and needs, with a focus on more targeted response to risk groups. This is done in partnership with municipalities. I believe that the measures already in place, and the interaction reform announced, will mean a great deal to the diabetics of the country and other people with chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have not said in my question that the government does nothing. I have shown in the question that it is not enough to capture what is the content of the Government's own national strategy, for it was former Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad who presented it, even though it was the previous government that, on the initiative of the Progress Party, started working on a national strategy. Maybe the biggest problem we have in the area of diabetes today is that they're undiagnosed. And then it's just important what kind of strategies we put into trying to meet this group, because the sooner we can get into this group, the more likely we are to get fewer late complications and fewer serious consequences. My question to the Council of State in this regard is: Do you now have a plan to manage all the undiagnosed people?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e965	I very much agree with the representative Nesvik that it is very important to be concerned about those who are in an early phase of the disease or are developing the disease. The estimates say that there are 250,000 people in Norway who have type 2 diabetes or are at risk of getting it, and approximately. half of these do not know that they are in a risk situation. Therefore, it is very important to try to provide information to people who have a lifestyle that puts you in such a risk situation. This is precisely why the Health Directorate is now completing the planning of a large-scale information campaign targeting precisely these people. So we want to bring out information to people who have a lifestyle that makes them at risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e972	Now I just have to say that in all such campaigns, I'm afraid there are some groups that we actually don't when -- maybe groups that we're out to hit. In the case of diabetes, there are several groups on which special attention may be given. One includes our new countrymen, those who have come here. We know that a very large group there is in danger, and we also know that it's hard to get to with ordinary information campaigns. In this context, I hope that the Council of State can take along the need to do a specific work related to this group, to meet them in an arena where you can get it. Furthermore, I hope that a dialogue with the Medical Association will also be possible through the agreement which will at least be in place for the summer, in the case of new negotiations to look at possible tariffs for extended blood tests, so that, when he has patients inside, he can do an extra job for those he sees in danger.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e981	I agree with the representative Nesvik that there are groups within the immigrant population that are more vulnerable than others. For this reason, we have also set up a separate dialogue project on the immigrant environment in Norway in the context of the cooperation reform process. So we're drawing a lot from the competence that, after all, exists among people who've been working towards these groups for many years. We have to bring that with us. Otherwise I also very much agree that the key position here is set. For this reason, a large part of the interaction reform work is about defining a new role for the decision-making body — a role in which the decision-making body becomes a much more active participant in helping to prevent disease development, rather than spreading disease to specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e991	‘The health insurance regulations for hospital stays are so complicated that both health care residents, relatives and municipal case handlers have problems understanding today’s regulations. State Secretary Aasrud said to Aftenposten that this matter worked with the department, and a clarification was promised already in the autumn of 2007. This is to simplify the legislation. Nothing else has happened. When will the Council of State ensure that it is cleaned up in this regulation, as promised for several years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e998	Local authorities' access to care services is currently regulated by two different legislations: one for home services and the other for institutional services. It is true that the representative Hoksrud is concerned that the institutional remuneration legislation has been criticised for being difficult to deal with. The reason for this is, among other things, that the consideration is calculated on the basis of the income of the user. As the Government has explained in St.meld. No 25 for 2005–2006, the 2004 Government obtained assessments from interested parties on how to achieve equal payment in municipal health and care services. A majority of municipalities and state agencies wanted changes to the current system, but were concerned that it would lead to more administrative tasks for municipalities. At the same time, employee and user organisations opposed making changes. The government, following an overall assessment, did not find a basis for a comprehensive reform. Since then, the Ministry has started work to simplify today's remuneration regulations. There are at least two considerations that need to be taken into account: one is to ensure a social payment system that the user sees as fair. The second is to ensure that municipalities do not lose income. In this context, I would like to point out that the compensation payment in 2007 amounted to NOK 4.2 billion in income for municipalities. The amount is an important part of the funding base for the operation of municipal care services. Within these frameworks, it is a challenge to find solutions that effectively simplify legislation and that defend the conversion of current systems and practices. The Ministry is now in close dialogue with Nav to provide evidence of the economic impact of the changes on users and municipalities. As soon as this is clear, I will send a proposal to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1011	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is clear that the Council of State and the Secretary of State are not talking very well together, for both in 2007 and 2008, Secretary of State Aasrud promised that this matter should now be sent out and that it should be cleared up. I find it sad that nothing has yet happened in 2009 and that the Council of State has still not decided what is going to happen. But what it's all about is that more relatives get demand up to 16–18 months after they lose a family member in an institution. Governments must agree that this type of after-dependence should be abandoned. The usual practice is that after six months, all demands of a dwelling disappear, while the public can delay this and send demands so long afterwards. I wonder what the Council of State will do with that problem, which is an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1018	Yes, the question of how to settle a dwelling, an inheritance settlement, I think the representative Hoksrud has to address others than this council. – At least it would have been an answer with a lot of vision. Otherwise, I just have to take note of the impatience that the Progress Party has in getting cleaned up in this regulation. It might have been interesting to have got some suggestions from the Progress Party on possible simplifications, because we think it's pretty complicated. So we have decided not to carry out a major and comprehensive reform that would be about a level playing field – for which many are in favour. We're working on simplification, and to do that, we need a good factual basis. And we must therefore make proposals to be consulted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1025	It is at least nice that the Government is now asking the Advance Party to make good proposals. We will ensure that the Council of State gets in this area. But what's important here is that a lot of people experience it as a little bit difficult for the public to come with demand for a long time after they've lost their relatives and settled down. In addition, legislation is almost impossible to understand. I have even now been in and looked at this with regard to the Municipality of Oslo, where it is both an explanation and a number of other things, and it is almost a hopeless code to understand. I really hope that there is now progress here, so that you get new proposals. I can promise the Council of State that he will get good suggestions from the Progress Party on how to solve this. I also hope that there will be a quick solution in view of all those who feel frustrated that it is not possible to find out for themselves how to meet the requirements that come, and also that the requirements will come after such a long time as they should have done, after they have been done publicly, i.e. after the housing has been settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1032	Without considering this at all because, as I said, I cannot do anything about it, I initially agree with the representative Hoksrud that it sounds strange that it should be possible to get this type of claim for a living that has been completed. So let me at least take a look at it, but I haven't prepared to answer this, because it's not constitutional to me. So I honestly think it's interesting to come up with some suggestions. But I want to remind you that I made two premises – right? One is that the basis for payment should not be weakened, because this is an important source of income. Unlike the Progress Party, I only have a certain bag of money that I have to get, so the income base has to be maintained. The second is that the payment system must have a clear social impact. Within the two frames I am very interested in good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1042	I would like to ask another question to the Minister of Health and Health about something that can be resolved within a specially given sum of money from the same bag. I have the following questions: «The undersigned indicates that a 50 pst exists today. organ donation-related coordinator function. Like the Foundation Organ Donation, I'm of the opinion that this should be converted into a 100 pst. position, held by a single person. Will the Council of State make sure that a 100 pst is put in place? position as national organ donation coordinator, in line with the wish of the Foundation Organ donation, and, where appropriate, when can we expect this to be in place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1051	Organ donation is a priority area of the Government. We've set the goal of reaching 30 donations per. million inhabitants in a few years. At the same time, the proportion of live donors of kidney from family shall be maintained at 40 pst. of the total number of kidney transplantations. In 2005, a national coordinating body was established in the Health Directorate to strengthen the work on organ donation in its 28 approved donor hospitals. In the same year, a report on measures to increase organ donation was published by the Health Directorate, among others. to set up posts as a donor physician. The 2008 Regional Health Companies Mission Document provided guidance that donor doctors at university hospitals were to be given free time to carry out the task. This has continued in 2009. At the same time, regional health businesses shall put pressure on measures to increase the number of available bodies. The Norwegian organ donation resource group — also often abbreviated to NOROD — has been given the means to strengthen the training of health professionals on organ donation issues, and a particularly important topic is communication with those affected by the crisis. The Foundation Organ Donation receives grants for information work in the population. From 2009 onwards, the subsidy was increased by 1 million. kr. In 2007, the Ministry set up a working group to recommend measures to increase the number of organ donations. The Foundation Organ Donation was represented in the working group. The report came in May 2008. The Group concluded that there was a need for a national organ donation coordinator function to advise the Ministry, follow up the work of regional health establishments on organ donation and establish systems for developing competences. Responsibility for the coordinator function was to be added to the Health Directorate. The Directorate shall now set up a group to carry out the function of national coordinator. The group shall have a contact person under the direction of the department director and in close cooperation with the division director. In total, the function comprises two entire posts allocated to several persons. In this way, the function is less vulnerable and vulnerable based on the assessments made by the Health Directorate. The request for a visible strong professional shall be provided by the head of the new National Board for Organ Donation and Transplantation to be established in a short time. Overall, in my view, these measures will strengthen the national coordinating role and the field of organ donation. The organisation shall be evaluated after three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1064	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In fact, at the outset, I would like to pay tribute to the Government for the work done on organ donation in Norway. I also believe that the government has received input from many parties in that context – good input. Unfortunately, I'm a little concerned that the model that you set up to, rather than tailoring a scheme to increase capacity, interaction and coordination, could be a split of the role. If we, for example, sees the country in Europe, and perhaps in the world that has been most affected by the number of organ donations, namely Spain, there is just the clear, strong central role – a coordination function that has proved to be very useful. My question to the Council of State is this: By spreading this responsibility among more people, even though the intention is good, does the Council of State not see the danger of losing some of the focus that you have intended to have within the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1075	I'm very clear that we're going to do a better job of coordinating organ donation efforts. It's about working against the ministry, it's not least about working against regional health companies, and it's also about working against maybe university hospitals in particular. Then it's about both pressing for an organist to have time to do his job and for health professionals to receive training, that as well as everything we have to know, follow up. The Health Directorate has been given a very clear responsibility to implement it. Whether it is organised by a department or a group by using two, three or four persons or whether they implement it by using one person, they decide for themselves. I don't know how Nesvik might have intended to control Health-Norway if he were to come into my chair, but at that level at least I don't intend to start ruling.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1080	We're not going to interfere with who's going to rule after given dates. It's up to the voters in this country to decide. What is important, and I'm just asking the Council of State to be aware of, is to follow the model you eventually choose. The reason why I'm more concerned about spreading it across multiples, a group, is that in periods, there can be other things the same group and the same people also have to work with, and then this piece, organ donation, comes back slightly because you prioritise in different sectors. That's why I hope you can look at this again, and have one special person for this. Perhaps the most important part is that donor-responsible doctors in hospitals – not just in university clinics, but in all the 25 donor hospitals – get time to work on this, and get training in communication. I hope that the Council of State through its mission document can also give clear signals to these hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1089	I fully agree with the latter. I do not know, but it is clear that I see, of course, that if you have more people inside who are responsible for carrying out a task, they may have other tasks that can override. The disadvantage of having one person is that everyone can break his foot, and then you can be away from work for three months. No one is left and is responsible! I think we have now given this mandate very clearly to the Health Directorate. Then we have to trust that the Health Director and Health Directorate are able to solve this problem with one, two, or three people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1101	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘In 2008 the Nordic Hospital HF mission document calls for safe treatment for patients with CFS/ME. Nothing has happened. The 2009 mission document does not mention this patient group. According to the ME Association, there is at least 500 ME disease in Northern Ireland. These receive no assistance from the Nordic specialist health services. Will the Council of State ensure that the Nordlands Hospital establishes an offer for ME patients and that outpatient teams are set up in all regions of the sickest who are unable to move?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1110	The representative Bavøy has shown great commitment to this patient group through both interpellation and several written questions. I hope that through our answers to them we have shown that we are also concerned with a good health offer for patients with CFS/ME, and that it should be part of Health-Norway's offer. For the period 2007-2009, EUR 15 million has been allocated. kr from the State budget to establish a national competence network for CFS/ME based on existing professional environments. The funds, managed by the Health Directorate, have been used to provide financial support for various professional development projects and information aimed at healthcare, patients and relatives. The initiative has contributed to significantly better knowledge of diagnosis in both primary and specialist health services. In addition, significant work is being done by patient organisations and professional communities to increase their competence in this disease. The representative of Davøy suggests that the patient group is not mentioned in the 2009 mission paper. It must be a misunderstanding. In the 2009 mission document to Health Nord, which I sent out on 5 January, I asked the regional health company to ensure a good specialist health service service for everyone affected by CFS/ME. I have further argued that Health Nord is using the national treatment offer for the most ill patients, who are under construction in Health South-East RHF. This is a repetition of the requirements from previous years. The offer of the very sickest is expected to be completed during the first half of 2009, according to information provided by Health South-East. It takes time to build up good professional offers. In the autumn of 2008, an offer was made to patients with CFS/ME at the University Hospital Nord-Norway in Tromsø. Health Nord RHF plans to build up an offer in Bodø in 2010 in a cooperation between UNN and the Nordlands Hospital. Through such cooperation, patients in the region will receive a coordinated and well specialised healthcare service. Oslo University Hospital HF has established an outpatient clinic and an outpatient team for patients affected by CFS/ME. I would also like to make sure that Health Nord RHF benefits from the experience gained in Oslo by further building up offers for this patient group in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1123	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer. It's absolutely right that the government has done a lot, and I'm very pleased with what has been done in recent years in terms of ME patients. My point was that the mission document for the Nordlands Hospital did not go further from the region and said that they should have an offer to ME patients. It is actually the case today that when ME patients contact the Nordlands Hospital, they are referred to elsewhere, for example. to UN. The Nordic patient representative has also said that it is too bad what is said from the Nordlands Hospital today to the patients, namely that they have to contact UNN. These are patients who are very poor, who can't go far – many of them can't actually get out of bed. So I am not familiar with the fact that the Nordlands Hospital has got this specified in its mission documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1132	In fact, I have no other option than to repeat that in the Health Nord mission document there is a very clear requirement for it, and that is not the way it disappears. If it should have been left out in the document from Health Nord to the individual health companies, the requirement is equally real from us and will be followed up. There are actually many things I can be critical of in Health North, but right in this area, I actually think they're doing a good job in the sense that they've built up an offer at UNN. Then you can say that it's not good enough, because too many people are hit. Therefore, in 2010 they are planning to build up an offer in Bodø in cooperation between the UNN and the Nordlands Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1139	I am aware that UNN has received project funding from the Health Directorate, where something is to be built up for six municipalities in the Nordic region. In connection with the application for this project, it has been said that for the remaining municipalities and patients who live there, the Nordlands Hospital itself should take responsibility for these. I hope that an offer in Bodø, which the Council of State is talking about, will apply to all patients in Northern Ireland. I would like a confirmation of that, or at least if the Council of State can find out if it's right. I am very pleased that the Council of State says that he will follow up on this. Finally, could the Council of State perhaps say some words related to this with an outpatient team, which I believe we should be up in all our regions in a reasonably short time? That, I think, is absolutely crucial for the very sickest who we actually know are unable to move out of their homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1148	On the first part of the follow-up question, I think I will answer that I will have more research on the offer to be built up in Bodø and pass it on to the representative Davøy about it. So it's nice that we finally find each other, because I also think that experience related to the construction of an outpatient team at the new Oslo University Hospital is very important. I'm no expert at ME, but as I experience the situation, it's just that being able to provide professionally good services just at home to many, who are needed. That's why it's so important that what might be the spearhead in Health-Norway, Oslo University Hospital, has some experience with the outpatient team, and so that me and the health regions provide ‘learning by doing’, i.e. that you really manage to gain experience from it, and then build up similar offers elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1158	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the Sunday revision of 11 January 2009, we could hear the head of the Swedish Rikskriminal Police, Arne Andersson, say that he was concerned that Norway is not well equipped to contribute to the fight against international drug networks operating in the Nordic region. Andersson pointed out that Kripos lacks resources, especially on the testing page. What will the Council of State actually do to ensure that Kripos has in the near future sufficient resources to combat organised criminal networks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1167	First of all, I would like to say that there are some considerations about the fact that another country's police are assessing the resource situation in a neighbouring country. But I think I should leave it. In fact, what is interesting about that debate and the media issue is that it is the result of the fact that Norwegian and Swedish police have been able to reveal one of the largest drug networks. So -- I was saying -- negative it's going to be cool. However, the question goes into a number of other issues in the area of organised crime, drugs and international cooperation, which I have answered many times both orally and in writing. As former Minister of Justice, the representative of Dørum Kripos and Nye Kripos know his history and the various changes and reorganisations up to the national unit for combating organised and other serious crime very well. Based on the question of Kripos's exploration resources, there is reason to stress that Kripos does not have its own testing resources but that they can attract resources from Oslo police districts if necessary. This is considered to be a satisfactory and resource-efficient system. I think the previous government perceived it this way, and we've chosen to carry it on. Norway has a relatively small policy population, and it is important that the total resources are optimally used. Therefore, it has not been considered appropriate to allocate Kripos’s own resources for testing. One of the challenges facing operational police work is, among other things: the strict requirements imposed by the Working Environment Act for working-free periods. I do not go into any detail about it, but there has been a lot of work on the part of the police. We also have challenges in the Police and Lena's seat in relation to recruitment because, among other things, we do. has trained too few policemen. The representative is aware that for this reason the Government has chosen to increase the recording at the Police College. The previous government increased the admission to 360 students – we are further increasing it to 552 students this year. That's very good. It is agreed by all parties in the Stortinget. But it's actually a very good answer to the challenges we're facing, even when it's about getting more people to run a checkout, because we actually need more policemen. The representative of Dørum is also well aware of the strengthening of the budgets that have been. So in the current year, it's a nominal increase of 800 million. kr, which together with the DNA register and the investment made in material, will contribute something. However, I would like to point out that one of the major challenges in terms of the opportunities we have to create more testing resources now quickly is to get more civilians into the police. There is something in the current year's budget, and that is also one of the reasons why, just before Christmas, we chose to strengthen the police budgets, so that at least the Left Party and the government parties agree fairly on the overall level of the police budget. I believe that by bringing in more civilians we will be able to free up more police resources, among other things. for testing. But I also know that the representative is very busy with the general order service out there, and that will also be a priority. I would like to tell the representative now that it is working in the ministry in relation to future budgetary processes to employ more civilians than is shown in the current budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1188	I thank you for a full answer. Of course, I am aware that there is an unusually good case behind it. That was what – fortunately, in this context – came first in the media, in fact in the Sunday revision. I think this is an outstanding example of working together to get something done. When I at all cared and was concerned about this – I have a certain experience relationship with Swedish police officers, to say it like that – it was because this man got three questions. First he gets the question, is there anything? He says, yes, something is missing. What does'something' mean? It's a poll. And then he says, we have to take them in Sweden and not Norway. I'm very aware that Kripos does not formally have its own resources, but needs to borrow from others. In the light of the full answer given by the Council of State, I will put the question precisely: is the cooperation so good that Kripos gets the people who are formally employed in the Oslo police district, at their disposal when they need them? Is the Council of State certain that this is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1199	As far as staffing is concerned, it's obvious that there are two special organs that we're very concerned about. It's Kripos and Ekokrim. There is no secret that when we are now working with an opportunity study – to formulate me in that way – to bring in more civilians, it is important in this context to strengthen Kripos and Ekokrim. A small reinforcement of Kripos is being made in the current year to build up what the Sletner Committee – the good left-wing representative, Mrs Sletner – has helped us with, namely a separate group to deal with rape cases. I hope that if we don't have that long, we will have the opportunity here in Stortingen to discuss the further question of strengthening it to bring in more civilians. This applies not least to ecocrims, not least to Kripos and, of course, to general police Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1206	I am very pleased with the answer about the civilians. The reason why I ask the question is, just as the council says, I know very well how this is organized. As early as 2005, I had some concerns as to whether Kripos would get the people they needed when, in worst cases, they could risk competing with the needs of the Oslo police district. I'm familiar with the fact that they're employed there, for good reason. But already at the time, I was worried that Kripos, when it came to the problem, wouldn't get them, either because they might have been used to something else, even if it wasn't supposed to be like that, or that you got in the situation we've seen now, with actions that make you possibly have smaller people. I asked the question because I know that the Council of State is also deeply committed to achieving good international cooperation against organised crime. And I put it again – after the Council of State has given excellent answers on the recruitment of civilians: Is the Council of State absolutely sure that the resources that Kripos will have in Oslo police district are available when Kripos needs them?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1215	Within the current budgets and resources you have at all times, I have the absolute impression that you have the personnel you need. But at the same time, there is reason to stress that there is always crime that you want to discover, which at least justifies an increase in the supply of resources to both Oslo and Kripos. That's one of the reasons why, after we got into the government offices, we chose to strengthen Ekokrim in relation to money laundering and bring in more people. We chose to strengthen Kripos because we saw it necessary, not only against rape, as I mentioned instead, but also to strengthen Kripos in relation to Internet-related crime. We've got more people in there to do that job. But we're not on target. That is why I very carefully stress that we believe that we now also have a strategy for what we are going to meet alongside international work – and especially the Prüm agreement, which I hope we can sign soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1230	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1236	«The Middle East conflict also presents several challenges for many in our own country. From the Mosaic Religion, it is now reported that many Jewish children experience increased insecurity, including in school. In the violent demonstrations that have taken place, statements – from school youths – have also come to characterize Jewish hatred. How will the Council of State use the school to reduce the level of conflict and ensure that children can feel the school as a place of security and not the opposite?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1243	The conflict in the Middle East and the demonstrations with the origins of the media-enlightened events. The question related to what has happened will naturally be something that concerns the school. Israel’s warfare and invasion of Gaza are clearly more committed than other conflicts in the world. Many adults and children in Norway have an involvement in the Middle East conflict, not least for many who have a direct relationship with the conflict, for example. through the direction of threat or through people in Norway who have family ties in different areas, both in Israel and in the Palestinian territories. I also see that the parent's commitment, of course, will affect the students. This means that many elephants take with them a great deal of experience at school. It can be expressed as grief, anger, or despair, and it can contribute to experiences in school. I would therefore like to begin by stressing it quite self-evidently: in the Norwegian school and in Norwegian society, no human being, no children, no elephant, should be treated as a party to a war or conflict elsewhere. On the contrary, all hosts shall treat as equivalent children and elephants and shall not in any way be responsible for anything that takes place in a war elsewhere. Of course. I had a short time ago a meeting with representatives of the Mosaic Religion, including the manager and the rabbi there. It was a very constructive and good meeting where we discussed these issues. They brought up things that Jewish children now experience in the Norwegian school — from a sense of insecurity around what is happening to the most serious examples, namely Jewish children who feel that the word ‘Jew’ is used as a shelling word to them. It's very serious. In the latter case, it cannot be characterised otherwise than by gross harassment and bullying. My very strong call, which I also expressed, is that one has to report to the principal, to teachers, to school, and that not only parents, but also others can be supportive of doing what can often be tough. This must be hit hard from the guidance of the school and the teachers. It's totally unacceptable. We are forced to work even harder against the bullying and against many other types of bullying in the Norwegian school. Then there is also a challenge for teachers in the educational situation, because there is no doubt that the Middle East conflict is, of course, a topic of education, not least when one comes further up in youth school and further education. Conducting the teaching in a good way, where a factual presentation of facts and a desire to make different views appear and let the debate be guided in a direction of substance, and everyone can feel that they are respected without regard for the background, is a demanding task. But we know that teachers in Norway have good experience with that, because that's not a new situation you're experiencing right now. Then there are also conflicts between the elephants who may feel unsafe about the events, and in the training law there are rules about the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that impose an obligation on the school to care for all the elephants to feel safe and experience a social community. Finally, I would like to mention that the Wergeland Centre, which opens in Oslo on 1 February 2009, will be a European resource centre for all the Member States of the Council of Europe in the work on training in intercultural understanding, human rights and democratic citizenship. The centre shall include: have a continuing training offer for teachers and trainers. In the long term, the center will be an important player and resource for the schools. So both I and other government councils in the media have expressed a very clear attitude towards what some Jewish children now have experienced both in school and in other contexts, and I would like to repeat that this is totally unacceptable. We need to have a special eye on those who are minorities in Norwegian society, who can experience things that are related to a conflict somewhere else and that they absolutely should not experience in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1262	I thank you for the answer, which was on the general plane. If we take some examples, we see that Norwegian school cancels visits to the Jewish synagogue in Trondheim. Today's Evening Post, for example, we read. that a teacher writes to the Jewish Museum in Oslo that it is not appropriate to visit the museum as long as Palestine is not free. Other examples show that neither does the school have the power to distinguish between the State of Israel and Jewish culture and being Jewish. So my question is, will you do something about the educational situation? For example, you can go to Norwegian school for 13 years without necessarily having to know about Holocaust. Will the State Council also contribute to Norway’s investigation and association with anti-semitism monitoring mechanisms?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1271	My view is that perhaps in the current situation, it would be important to search for knowledge about the Middle East conflict and also Jewish history, for example by visiting a synagogue. Getting into the Holocaust would be a very good reason for now, just as there would be some very good reason to get into the history of the Palestinians. I believe that searching for knowledge can contribute to the most nuanced and good insight into a question – not to escape that knowledge. That's why genocides during the Second World War and Holocaust are an important part of understanding and understanding. An enormous number of Norwegian school elephants are involved, for example. the white buses, and get a special strong insight and understanding in the area that might be a lifetime. I'm sure we can do even more to get that question and other questions into the classroom even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1276	I don't have anything to say in general, although I think there is no more specific content to it. So I'm concerned with what the Council of State says about 'nutritional and good insight' in the actual circumstances. After all, there are forces in Norwegian society that want a boycott of the state of Israel. I simply wonder if the Council of State of Solhjell believes that that kind of play contributes to getting a nuanced and good insight into the conflict conditions that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1283	I am a very strong supporter of freedom of expression and that we should have a political dialogue where different views should be represented. I don't think we need to use this discussion to try to prevent different views from emerging on what Norwegian or international policy towards the State of Israel is right. Nor should we use it to say that a must not get the actual conditions and search knowledge. As the representative said in a good way, we must be able to distinguish between different political positions when it comes to what the State of Israel is doing and to have such a background in Norway. All children in the Norwegian school consume equivalency regardless of it. Then I believe that I want to say that my main impression is – and it also appeared in the meeting with the Mosaic Religion – that most teachers and schools are good at dealing with such situations, and that they treat all children as equivalent. But there are unfortunately some exceptions, and we have to work more to prevent that happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-21.ana.ud580e1290	This means that today's maps are ready.
