ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e32	The representatives Tove Karoline Knudsen and Jorod Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e44	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting in Stortinget. The representative, Lars Sponheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e51	I am pleased to promote a proposal to examine the management of the State pension fund – Foreign and annual control of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e56	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e59	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the setting up of the Privacy Commission, the creation of a core file and the protection of sensitive health information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e64	The representative, Mr Skovholt Gitmark, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e67	On behalf of the representatives of Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland, André Oktay Dahl, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e87	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of reply following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and five lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e98	This is the first big business message to be made about Norwegian innovation policy, and the message shows that the government has high ambitions in business policy, where a set of innovation policies are high on the agenda. The Storting Communication shows how important innovation is to achieve a resilient value creation in the Norwegian economy. I have noticed that the Government in its work on the message has focused on getting input from businesses and business environments across the country. In addition, the news of innovation has been the subject of a series of conferences and seminars in which different organisations and organisations were represented. Many valuable recordings have come from business operators across the country through the good dialogue that one has had in the work on the message. There is reason to believe that if the authorities are strongly committed to an innovative and resilient Norway, we will have a competitive society across the country. It will be decisive in a desire and a goal that we will continue to live and live in a society where welfare arrangements are among the best in the world. The Labour Party’s political slogan is ‘sheep and parts’. This means that values must be created before they can be shared – to good welfare arrangements. A large majority of the Committee is pleased that the Government has put forward a broad and holistic approach to innovation policy. The Nordic model is highlighted by several respondents to the message as an important basis for innovation, by the fact that employees, employers and authorities see a common benefit by implementing the change and renewal of the enterprise. The fact that we have a core agreement that obliges us to add and guide us to develop the business, provides a good framework for innovation and development with broad and active involvement from them. Other important elements that have been played are the strengthening of research efforts, the availability of skilled labour, innovation in parts of the public sector, the fact that international companies choose Norway as a country of localisation, financial instruments, raise awareness of intellectual property rights and several other measures. These recordings are important actions. Nor is it difficult to agree with the Government that the three elements of creative societies, creative people and creative activities are important areas for promoting good innovation. The government's goal is for Norway to become one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world within the areas where we have been led. This is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. This goal is quite ambitious. This big message is an important contribution to achieving this goal. Innovation opportunities in Norwegian industry are currently too low. Therefore, it is particularly important to be offensive in today's situation, not least when the global economy is declining. It is precisely in recession, when too many enterprises tend to overfocus costs and constraints, that a basis for future growth and success should be ensured through national efforts. I have previously referred to the Nordic model. I will later take on the ‘Norwegian model’, because I believe that the Norwegian model is better suited as a basis for good innovation, by seeing employees, employers and authorities see a common benefit in the implementation of readjustment and renewal in the enterprises. It's probably only in this way that we'll have a competitive society across the country. In the wake of this, we will still be able to live and live in a society where welfare systems are among the best in the world. Innovation is crucial for creating values and developing a good welfare society. International competition has for a long time been an important incentive for innovation and change. Goods, capital and human beings are increasingly being moved across borders. Norwegian export companies have a larger market, and Norwegian consumers have a larger choice of products. There is little doubt that business conversion will lead to a change in business structure. I only see in my own region, Telemark and Grenland, where society has changed in a good and flexible way from being a traditional industrial group to now presenting companies with high and modern technology. I see clearly that both good conversions and good improvements are entirely decisive to survive. Of course, such conversion processes are not without pain or without cost. Moreover, it is not uncommon that this will result in higher unemployment over a period of time. High unemployment is something that the Labour Party and the Government take very seriously, as it is a waste of valuable resources. For this reason, it is important to establish many and good schemes that allow the unemployed to return to work as quickly as possible. And then I am not least thinking of measures such as challenge, re-training and active use of labour market measures. This message also strongly points to having regard to the environment in the focus on future value creation and welfare. Clear environmental requirements from the authorities together with good support schemes for environmentally friendly technology development must be key drivers of innovation, which will in the long term make our industry more competitive in an increasingly competitive international competition. In addition, it is important to mobilise resources to facilitate the development and improvement of existing environmental technologies. Norwegian Industry has pointed to the material industry as an important industry, where it can develop environmental technology solutions to produce better and cheaper materials. It will require a broad effort involving a combination of research, innovation, commercialisation and market introduction, targeting the whole range of Norwegian businesses and the whole value chain. It is gratifying that the Government has set up a Strategic Council for Environmental Technologies representing authorities, the knowledge environment and business. Key priorities, focus areas and problem settings will be linked to a national environmental technology strategy. In order to finance new projects, enterprises and entrepreneurs need to be able to obtain external funding when needed. Argentum and Investinor are examples of how the state can use its capital to contribute capital to business. In the last eleven years, a total of 15 seed funds have also been created around the country. The Seed Scheme, which is managed by Innovation Norway, means that the State participates in the financing of private investment companies through the provision of responsible loan capital. The target group for the nationwide seed funds is innovative projects, including: from universities and higher education institutions, all over the country. It is a premise that the fund invests in an early phase. It is a goal to stimulate increased use of design in Norwegian business. Increased innovation, competitiveness and value-added are closely linked to exploiting the potential of a strategic use of design. The right of business design needs to be applied to a greater extent than today as part of the innovation process and the knowledge content of products and services. We have several examples of companies that have used design to provide innovative solutions as a basis for, for example, international competitiveness. Ulstein's new ship concept, X-BOW, with a bow profile that splits the sea instead of digging himself into him. Here designers have chosen to think completely new ones. Another example is Stokke's Tripp Trapp chair. The message provides a clear signal for a design-driven innovation programme, which will provide new knowledge on how design-driven innovation can contribute to more innovation in both the goods and services sectors. A recent study by Synovate among more than 500 leaders shows that research, innovation and challenge are the most important issues for business. The same leaders clearly show that lower taxes and taxes are completely insignificant compared to investment in research. The government has increased the rights to nutrition research into its budget by more than 40 pst. since the government change. In addition to this, all the permissions that are part of the crisis package and to which the Size has joined. There has also been a great deal of excitement from the business community. Furthermore, the Innovation Communication places great emphasis on the need to focus on skills and skills in order to meet future skills needs. We therefore need to improve the quality of education at all levels and facilitate better cooperation between challenge and work life than we do today. Particular emphasis is also placed on the importance of research and development in order to increase the degree of innovation in industry. In order to strengthen existing business and to provide the basis for industrial development and new activities, both business and the public sector need new knowledge. Research and development must therefore be given priority. It is important that the public tools have arrangements that can lead to research results giving rise to new entrepreneurial activity. A joint committee believes that the means we have to commercialise research must be strengthened, and any new instrument should also be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e149	As the rapporteur is very aware, innovation activities in Norway are quite extensive and the measures are very numerous. In the objectives we have and in part of the measures, this is, of course, an increase in the proportion of women entrepreneurs. It's a paradox that very many of the women who want to start for themselves, be entrepreneurs, come from an area where they really don't get involved, namely in health and care services. Then it's paradoxical that in the area where we can really refer to women who want to start for themselves, start something new and perhaps improve welfare services, the government is running a policy that excludes them from participating, because large sections of the public sector have been blocked for competition. My question is, Does the Workers' Party and the Government consider that more competition should be allowed for health and care services?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e158	When we talk about good innovation, the most important thing is to be able to do in the field of innovation, to bet on new knowledge, new product, new design and to convert enterprises, whether private or public. In addition, there is a need to be good at working smart and effective. It is true, as the representative Fostervold says, that the message is characterised by many comprehensive measures, and so it is when one is to innovate an entire society, both in the private sector and in the public sector. But that doesn't mean that the government and government parties aren't busy with what's going on in the public sector. We focus particularly on women entrepreneurs. We focus particularly on the public sector, not least on the health and care sector. But that doesn't mean we want to privatize the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e165	In these times of financial crisis, there is also a time for opportunities, opportunities for research and development, opportunities for innovation, etc. Then it's important that we look at new actors, but not least that we build up under the actors that already exist. One of these players is SIVA, which has an important role – I want to say almost invaluable function in the work on innovation and business development. I should have liked it to have been even more clearly emphasized. Among other things, SIVA’s commercial activities need to strengthen access to capital, for they can help to reduce the impact of the financial crisis, especially in the districts, both in the short and long term. My question is: Will the representative Upbeøen Hansen, as a representative of a large government party, be involved in strengthening SIVA's position, so that the competence, apparatus and possibilities they have are even better exploited?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e172	When it comes to facilitating good policies in the field of innovation, it is all the more important, in my opinion, to be able to think in the long term. The challenge, thinking in the long term, can be a test, until there are too many election matches in this country. There are election campaigns every other year, and therefore it may be a challenge to think in the long term. The representative of Sørfonn and I agree on the importance of SIVA, and on the role of SIVA in developing good business environments throughout the country. The government is now in charge of an evaluation of both Innovation Norway and SIVA during this year. In that process, the importance of strengthening the capital injection to SIVA has to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e179	I think the message, the setting and to the extent that the post to the representative Upbeøen Hansen is characterized by many general descriptions and vague target formulations. There are few new concrete measures, and there is no indication of any new innovation policy. Innovation in business, on the other hand, is an entirely concrete and measurable activity, and it depends on very specific framework conditions. Such a framework condition is, of course, access to capital for research purposes. In this context, the government parties obviously meet themselves at the door, because what this government has done about concrete measures in the field of innovation is to weaken the TaxFUNN scheme as a measure of innovation in enterprises. Since it took over in 2005, the government has increased the taxes on Norwegian business by DKK 11 billion compared to the last State budget proposal of the Bondevik II government. Doesn't Opbebøen Hansen see that the government's tax policy actually weakens the innovative capacity of companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e188	When you have to generate a big message and you have to process a big message in this room, there will necessarily be a message that is characterized by some general descriptions. The concrete measures will, of course, be taken in the wake of the processing of a large-scale notification, through proposals for the Storting. When it comes to concrete actions, as the representative of Torbjørn Hansen asks, I would also like to say, based on what is in the position of the representative of Torbjørn Hansen and Right, that the comments are also characterized by a lot of general descriptions. In the case of concrete measures, there are taxes and charges that are the review melody in their comments. I pointed to an investigation by Synovate among 500 business leaders, which says that taxes and taxes are not the most important thing in the world in order to be able to build up Norwegian business, but a strong commitment to research and.... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e197	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e201	First, let me thank the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. There is a document with a lot of general features, and it is about to eat a finished setting. The document focuses mainly on enterprises, individuals and the public sector in terms of innovation. The paper entitled ‘Innovative and sustainable Norway’ is a document that gives a good overview of the existing instrument that will support innovation and entrepreneurship in enterprises and among Norwegian entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the communication – which to those degrees has taken time – has not led the Government to make so many concrete proposals for action in the final document. Although we agree with most of the measures outlined in the case, these are only measures that are largely concerned with new contact forums, further monitoring and evaluations. The Progress Party has therefore made a wide range of proposals that we believe are absolutely necessary if we are to become leaders as a nation in innovation, research and entrepreneurship. When the Government announced that it would present the first Norwegian paper on innovation, and it has taken so long to present it to the Stortinget, it has generated great expectations. The feedback we've received from many of the actors who were supposed to receive the notification is that this is not a good enough document to trigger the creative power needed at these times. Among other things, the Research Council, in a consultation session to the Business Committee on 12 February 2009, states that the Communication is weak in terms of concrete actions and that more concrete actions are missing, not least in the light of the financial crisis. These feedback may mean that important interventions to enhance the viability of Norwegian enterprises, as well as securing Norwegian jobs and values, are being reduced. In order to achieve a successful strategy for innovation and an environment for innovation and entrepreneurial activity, it is important to raise awareness of individuals early in the educational cycle. It will help to shed light on opportunities, ensure competence and make it harmless to start their own business, with their own ideas. The Progress Party therefore believes that closer cooperation between industry and educational institutions is important. If industry can be used more in primary education already, you can show the real benefits and use of the primary school. In this way, you can also increase your interest in the real subjects. This may be an entrance sport for the announced bet within high school. Young entrepreneurship is also important in increasing interest in entrepreneurship while providing good incentives for many young people to start their own businesses. The Progress Party supports the work of Young Entrepreneurship and, in all budget proposals during this period, has proposed a significant increase in the State contribution, in addition to the Government's appropriations. We will also mention the important work of the Centres for Entrepreneurship at the University of Oslo, and ask the Government to consider what framework conditions can be improved for their work. It is important to have an overall focus on innovation and entrepreneurial activity in the educational cycle, and therefore the funding for research and development in educational institutions needs to be significantly increased. This must apply to funds for both positions, programmes and investments. At the same time, it is appropriate to note that the public instrument appears unbridled and bureaucratic. It may have its background in the fact that many of the measures controlled by the instrument have come out of policy signaling and special considerations. The Progress Party believes that public sector instruments should be exempted from specific considerations that would put the innovation perspective in the background. We therefore believe that there is reason to review the instrument with a view to replacing specific schemes with nationwide innovation schemes, which can effectively provide the basis for new businesses across the country. At the same time, it is important to recognise that the basis for, and prospects for, an economic return is a driving factor for innovation. The Progress Party therefore considers that a prerequisite for an enterprise to be able to drive innovation and development is that more of the values remain in the enterprise. Unfortunately, the government’s tax policy is countering innovation and weakening the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. It is important that good financial instruments are in place for enterprises that want to develop, but also in this area, the Government of Norway is constantly creating new challenges. The government chose to tighten up the TaxFUNN scheme, although all studies showed that this scheme worked well to trigger more private capital for research. The Progress Party wishes to reverse this tightening and to make more state capital available through new fund schemes. At the same time, it is important for the Government to increase its focus on business simplification, as this also helps to drain enterprises for resources. A market economy with consumer freedom of choice and well-functioning competition are prerequisites for an innovative society. It is a fact that innovation is primarily driven by the private sector and, in order to increase the level of innovation in society, it is necessary to introduce more freedom of choice for consumers and competition in several sectors of society. It is of great importance to the innovation capacity of business that all sectors in which you have a priority are affected. It is therefore regrettable that for ideological reasons the Government will not open up large sections of the public sector to competition. The public sector may well be the area with the highest potential and need for renewal. The growth and innovation witnessed in the private sector has been largely excluded by the public sector. This will lead to major challenges when the wave of old age takes place seriously. If we are to improve the quality of welfare services, we need to organise the public sector in a much smarter way. Government competition policy in the welfare sector discourages business start-ups and endangers already established enterprises and jobs. It also weakens users’ needs and opportunities to influence their welfare services. In order to ensure good welfare arrangements, it is important that best service production is used. There are a number of issues that impede equivalent competition between public and private actors in this sector. We therefore promote proposals that will make it easier for private operators to provide welfare services in areas where the Government prevents real competition. At the same time, restrictions on competition and trade in food hinder the degree of innovation in that sector. Industrial innovation can be increased if parts of the business that are currently protected by customs barriers are gradually opened up to competition on equal terms with the rest of the world. This will provide a basis for new businesses and jobs, while giving Norwegian consumers new choices. We also want today's derogation from the Competition Act to be phased out, and that the Competition Authority should be exempted from political over-management. We believe that it will provide a basis for more innovation and development in several societal sectors. We therefore promote a number of proposals that will contribute to increased competition and closer cooperation between the public and private sectors in several societal areas. The government lacks action and clear objectives for innovation policy. International measurements show that we are far behind in innovation work. It is therefore necessary for the Government to be more performance-oriented in its work on innovation. The government should also review all innovation instruments in order to see whether they together complement the needs required to achieve a full commitment to innovation, research and development and entrepreneurship. Finally, I would like to make the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e256	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e261	It's almost a mantra you hear from the opposition parties when they claim that the prerequisite for business innovation is that a greater part of the values are left in the companies. So now we've put a few years behind us where the profits have never been so big, where the owners have never taken out bigger profits, and where the leaders have granted themselves greater bonuses than ever, without this seem to have given especially more to innovation. What does the Progress Party think it can get off?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e270	I would say that it is quite natural that innovation, conversion and entrepreneurship are driven by a need for a return at all, preferably a greater return. That's why you do what you do. Now it's not like there's little innovation in the private sector. In the public sector, innovation is lacking. That's where we want, unlike the Workers' Party, to release more actors. We believe that the level of innovation in the public sector must definitely rise, not just because we are now facing an older wave, but because fewer and fewer people are able to serve those who are to receive services in the public sector. Then we have to innovate and invest significantly in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e277	During the previous period, there was a significant reorganisation and simplification of the instrument in relation to the merger of both SND, the Export Council, the Tourist Council and the Inventors’ Guidance Office to Innovation Norway. Then I read in proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, that once again the Government wants to carry out an overall review of Innovation Norway and other parts of the instrument with a view to significant simplifications and improvements. You always have to have a review and improvements. I believe that both this government and previous governments have been looking at and looking at improvements all along. But has the Progress Party planned for major changes now a few years after we made this big change? Do you have a discussion in the party that, if you are in a position to do so, you will make major changes to how we organise the instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e286	Now there will be an evaluation of Innovation Norway to be carried out during 2009. I think it might be time. Although some were joined up to Innovation Norway in the previous period, the experience we are hearing about is not that this is an organisation that is now running something completely new. You run to a great extent right away, and maybe with the same tight shots, within Innovation Norway. Unlike some other parties on Stortinget, we want to remove some of the leaders of the instruments available. We believe that when government and government raise taxes available to business, everyone should be able to apply for that money, instead of the way it is now, that there are special interest groups that can apply for some money, and then there are some who are excluded from the same means, i.e. the tax money of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e295	I am here with a document prepared by Synovate and Tekna – and I have referred to the study earlier in my post today – that the survey conducted among 500 business leaders shows that research, innovation and challenge are the most important thing for business. The same leaders clearly show that lower taxes and lower taxes are completely insignificant compared to investing in the areas that I call ‘introduction’, i.e. research, innovation and education. That's the exact opposite of what I think the Progress Party wants to give the highest priority. On the basis of that, I would ask the representative Fostervold to comment on the investigation that has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e302	I think you might read this report with strange eyes if you don't think the companies want tax reliefs to even maybe spend their own money on research, development and conversion, if necessary. It is not that Norwegian companies want the state to take all the money, and then you can come with an application and knock on the door and ask to get some of that money back. Then I think you read this report with strange eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e310	I would like to start by saying that of course it is excellent that there will be a big message about innovation policy, but the innovation message must still be described as a business anti-climate. Rarely has a growing report of industrial policy been met with such deafening deafness from business and business. A journalist said right away that he was unable to attend the press conference as it was obvious that there was no single news of particular relevance to the companies in the years to come. He was unfortunately right. As I see it, it is obvious that the Innovation Communication does not place innovation much more clearly on the agenda, which I see as an ambition for the work of the Communication. It is also a fact that the paper on innovation is coming right at the brink of the downturn. Any measures that may come out of the processes and investigations notified by the notification will only be implemented after the selection. However, the Communication provides a clear overview of the business sector in Norway and a fully acceptable reference to our current industrial policy instrument. The notification alerts an evaluation of Innovation Norway, which is high time. We have different reactions to the quality and availability of the instrument. The national audit has been critical, which we have discussed earlier in this session. Much financial resources are spent on enterprise policy interventions, and it is important that they have a good impact. It is important that a set of measures offered to businesses be perceived as easily accessible, unbureaucratic and tidy. Here I would encourage the Government to think new, be open to new ways of doing things. The notification alerts a number of samples, advice, investigations and assessments. It is positive that the Government has spent a lot of time on business organisations working on the communication, and that there have been many seminars and conferences. It's fine. Dialogue itself is positive, and there has been a shortage in many areas of this government's industrial policy. Dialogue, however, does not in itself create new jobs and stronger businesses. In this respect, it is easy to join the criticism of the Research Council, which points out in the hearing on 12 February that the communication is weak on concrete measures and that more concrete measures are missing, not least in the light of the financial crisis. The big picture in the field of industrial innovation is that it is linked to the company’s framework conditions. The government came to power in 2005, while there was a significant rise in the economy. Instead of using the opportunity to strengthen the ability of businesses to meet the future, the government did the opposite: It weakened the framework conditions. The government has continued to do so every year since it took over. The real contribution of the government to the innovation capacity of businesses is that it has been weakened while the Stoltenberg II government has been in power. A clear example of this is the tightening up of the tax FUNN scheme in the 2007 budget, which introduced low maximum hourly and time-use limits within the scheme. This weakened the TaxFUNN scheme as an innovation policy measure. Whether the background to this was to cover expenditure in the budget, or whether there was some sort of ideological attack on taxes such as measures in the field of innovation policy, is not good to say. In any case, it weakened the innovation of businesses and the use of the TaxFUNN scheme went down. Nor has the government complied with the rule of action regarding the use of oil revenues. When we adopted the code of action, an overall increase agreed on the objective of using revenue on growth-enhancing measures such as knowledge, innovation and research, on road construction and on growth-enhancing tax incentives. The centre-right rule used 85 pst. of oil revenues for such purposes and the job actively in order to lay the foundations for the future business life and jobs of the future. When the Stoltenberg II government got on the track, however, it became a commercial dumping position with only 15 pst. of the oil revenue used for this type of growth promotion. This weak result is due to severe tax increases and a clear absence of investment in research and infrastructure construction, even at a time of huge public budget revenue. In this sense, it may not be strange that the innovation message is being presented, in all silence, at the end of the period. I would like to touch on a few specific themes on the innovation capacity of businesses. An active and committed private ownership and access to equity is a clear prerequisite for achieving good innovation. Owners who have an active relationship with corporate strategies and opportunities to set up equity are a clear condition for succeeding in a forward-looking business. Here, unfortunately, the reality is that the government is doing what it can to weaken the Norwegian private ownership. The distribution policy of this government is largely about taking the most out of equity from the enterprises and from the owners of the enterprises through the increase in property taxes and the increase in inheritance tax for family-owned enterprises. We are going to have a debate later today about the government's taxing of the shipping industry, which is exposed to exactly the same policy. The government’s private ownership policy is therefore not compatible with a focus on innovation. It's the opposite, it weakens the development potential of businesses. There is a clear and clear front between the opposition and the government parties on tax issues. I think it's perfectly obvious that taxes have an impact on innovation, and it doesn't seem to refer to polls where different purposes are set up against each other, to deny that taxes are not important for innovation. Looking at the reactions of business to the TaxFUNN scheme and the reactions to the State budget, it is obvious that this is very important. I find it strange that the government does not even see the need to strengthen the company's equity during the financial crisis, but on the contrary, it accepts increased taxes on wealth and inheritance from family businesses. In total, taxes have increased by NOK 11 billion for enterprises measured against the last government budget of the Bondevik II government. It is becoming increasingly clear that the Government does not see the relationship between safe jobs and strong enterprises. The Innovation Communication does not exactly represent a major innovation in industrial policy itself. New measures are few of them. I had hoped that maybe we could have a debate on new innovation policy tools. For its own part, the right has looked at what other countries are using to boost innovation in businesses. We therefore promote, together with the rest of the opposition, proposals to strengthen equity in start-up activities by investigating a seed scheme for private investors entering and investing in start-up activities. Start-up activities are often based on innovation and have significant capital needs. At the same time, it is very difficult to raise capital in a risky phase, especially now in a recession. Other countries have good experience, particularly in the United Kingdom, with tax deductions for private owners entering into start-up activities and subject to certain restrictions related to, among others. time limit in ownership. Therefore, it should also be relevant for the position to have this identified as a new policy on nutrition, and I think it is strange that the positioning parties vote against the proposal. Competition is a fundamental driver of innovation. By being in the forefront of product development, market concept, production processes and other commercial strategies, businesses are gaining advantage in competition with other enterprises. A policy that ensures good competition is therefore very important for innovation. Therefore, the right is on the basis of a proposal to remove obstacles to competition between public and private operators. Equal opportunities competition is a good starting point for creating a dynamic that brings innovation. In this context, it is important to establish a system of VAT compensation that is equivalent to public and private operators in such a way as to achieve effective competition for public tenders. On that occasion, I would like to inform you that the Right will also support proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, on strengthening the independence of the Competition Authority. This is in line with several proposals from the Right earlier in the period. Increased independence from competition supervision is a prerequisite for restoring confidence in supervision after several years of red-green uncertainty in competition policy. Providing companies with the opportunity to spend time and resources on innovation and value creation means that management does not waste all time on public reporting and form fields and enforcement of unnecessary legislation. It is true that the government has simplification on the agenda, but also here there are few and relatively low ambitions in terms of concrete action and the concrete impact of policy. Therefore, the right is involved in several proposals in the process of simplification for small and medium-sized enterprises, both in terms of capital requirements and in terms of audit obligations. There is a clear international trend in these days that countries are making life easier for business, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also the case that downtime triggers conversion in enterprises. Divicious people need to start new businesses, create new jobs. At that time, it is central that the authorities facilitate the situation. As far as I've registered, the red-green government in Norway is perhaps the government that has the lowest level of ambition and the highest level of resistance to measures that are sufficient, within the simplification area. Economic downturns will have an impact on the level of innovation in business. Research and development in enterprises has increased in recent years. As we discussed earlier, it is certain that there is a link between profitability in enterprises and the research efforts of enterprises. But now it is that research and innovation are easily accessible cost-effective to resort to when one is struggling to get the ends to jump in a recession. The right notes that the Innovation Communication is being presented at a time of major challenges without notifying new measures that provide the business community with a basis for further development. To that end, I just want to point out that there is a potential to get out of the financial crisis, but it requires an active enterprise policy and a clear willingness to use the entire toolbox. Finally, I should like to raise a point of order. 15, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e361	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e367	The representative Torbjørn Hansen said that the message was met with "depressive silence". Yes, of course, it could mean that business is very pleased with the content of the message, or that the representative Torbjørn Hansen lives in his own value and does not record what is happening on the outside. But back to the line: In its time, the Right went against the creation of the Investinor. Nevertheless, the Right notes in the position that there is too little access to capital for entrepreneurs. Investinor must include: investing in biotechnology, which means a great deal for the availability of risk capital to e.g. Oslo Cancer Cluster, something both the Working Party and the Right are very concerned about. What's my real right? Is Right for or against the State to use its capital strength to invest in the company, as we do, among other things. with Investinor?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e376	This was a simple question. But I would like to start by saying that it is alarming how little mention has been made of the innovation message in the media – there is almost no debate about this message. While it may be that everyone is extremely satisfied, it is also possible that this is a consequence of the fact that the notification does not contain anything new in the context of business policy, and therefore is not of particular importance to the enterprises that are struggling in a difficult time with financial crisis. In the case of Investinor, the Right voted against the proposal to set it up because we believe that the State's contribution to equity should primarily go through the ordinary seed fund schemes or through the Argentum system, which is a well-functioning device. Once the Investinor has been established and has received capital, we do not see it appropriate to make changes or propose changes to the Investinor system. It is quite obvious that the Right is in favour of what is happening in the field of biotechnology and is in favour of the State actively contributing to the various schemes in place within the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e383	I've had the pleasure of sitting in some companies, especially small ones, over the years. One of the things that I think has always been very reassuring is that we have had an auditor who has gone through and checked that we have done everything the right way. At least for a board member, there's a lot of security, because there's so much to get into, especially when you have a small board, that's when it's a small company. I have also experienced that those who have had an auditor have had the pleasure of asking for advice along the way in processes where doubts have arisen. Then I see in proposal No. 15 that the Right and Christian People's Party wants to liquidate the audit obligation of small enterprises. I have to say that surprises me, and my question to the representative Torbjørn Hansen is: does the representative not see that it can easily lead to a more insidious attitude towards following laws and regulations and doing things the right way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e390	I find it strange that Ryan's representative argues for something that he thinks is a logical need for a company, and that, in the light of his experience, has been a useful measure in the companies, namely audit. I'm 100 pst. agree that audit is good. It's something that gives owners, banks, the board and the management a security that the numbers match reality. So the right-hand side is very positive that companies have audits, and that you get the quality that it represents. It is certainly also true that audit firms can offer very good additional advice to companies, for which they benefit. But what I don't fully understand about Ryan's post is why he immediately believes that it should be compulsory to use the accountant. That is the debate we have raised in our proposal. The audit costs for small and medium-sized enterprises are relatively huge against the tax revenues of the same enterprises, and we therefore believe that the companies should have greater freedom to take the assessment that Inge Ryan just made from the Grand Duchy's spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e399	To the question of Investinor it's just to say to the Right: welcome after! It's good that they now agree that we're going to have Investinor. While the previous government was strongly influenced by business neutrality, today's government is very active on the business front and does a lot of active action. Right is always busy criticising. One area for which the Right Criticises the Government is a lack of environmental effort. It is difficult to see that Norway is a transitory country in the environmental field in line with the ambitions of the Soria Moria Declaration, says Right. What does the Right do when we introduce concrete requirements for business in the environmental field, such as: when applicable to the NOx requirement? Then the Right has a completely different starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e413	I thought it was interesting that Upbebøen Hansen pulled out the NOx situation, NOx emissions and measures against it, in the same post that he mentioned active industrial policy or the opposite of business-neutral policy. What has happened this period is that the government has combined very weak investment in industrial policy with relatively targeted deteriorations in industries that have been promised to invest in. Such a deterioration was the introduction of the NOx charge for the fishing fleet and for the maritime farms. It is obvious that the competitiveness of an important industry has deteriorated. The introduction of the Nox Fund of Industry, which came after massive pressure and a lot of work in Stortinget, both from the opposition and from the industry, was a positive measure to reduce NOx emissions. – So it is not right that the previous government had a business-neutral policy, while this government has an active policy. On the contrary, this government has led an active policy to weaken the business environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e435	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e438	One of the best things I've done as a big-time representative for the 71⁄2 years I've been doing is traveling around Norway and visiting different companies. I'm impressed by that commitment and the wisdom you encounter almost no matter where you get there. I think we have a very exciting business life in Norway, and a very offensive business life, where people take care of things. Even in the situation we're in now, I've met business leaders who say that now we just have to fold up our sleeves and make the best of such a demanding situation. There's one thing that's surprised me, and there's no contact between the educational institutions and the smallest businesses. If you take the environment in Trondheim, which is a very strong technological environment around NTNU, they are good at having contact with the larger companies, have set up cooperatives and have direct contact with them to ensure that the knowledge that is in our research and education institutions benefits businesses. In the case of the smallest, it is almost exceptional that they have had contact with these types of environments. I think it's one of the things that's going on in the Innovation Communication, which I'm just going to recommend to the Minister of Industry that you have extra attention to. I think that when we talk about creating new jobs, it's incredibly demanding to create new jobs if you start at zero. If you start at zero, it's hard to get jobs that are profitable and that you succeed with. Sure it happens, but it's demanding. It's much easier to go into businesses like this. have five employees, who are already in the process, and have them expand, either by getting better at what they're doing, or by finding a new field they can bet on. Then, in my opinion, is the most important way to succeed in that contact with the research institutions and the heavy education institutions. I hope that you will continue to work on this, that you put pressure on the leaders, so that these institutions have to – in order to get a part of the money that they get transferred from the state budget – have to have contact with the smallest companies as well. I think it is very good for the companies that you get that contact. I also think it is very good for these research and education institutions that they are being pressured into meeting small and medium-sized enterprises. The second thing I want to mention in my post is the proposals from the Progress Party, which is actually involved in the liquidation of Norwegian district policy. The Progress Party is promoting more proposals. We have had an active district policy in Norway for many years. The district development fund we had for a long time, which was replaced by the SND, which is today Innovation Norway. Furthermore, the District Development Fund is part of Innovation Norway, because of the lack of activity areas, and areas in Norway have special challenges to create jobs. That's why you give extra grants or extra loans to that kind of society. We've had a tradition of that in Norway every year. The Progress Party today proposes that part of these arrangements be phased out, that everything should be made nationwide. This means that areas which have good access to jobs and which have some job creation needs to be treated as areas which work and are struggling with the creation of new jobs. It is a very serious proposal, and it is good-bye to Norwegian district policy that the Progress Party here proposes. We must not treat everything the same in Norway. We must have different policies for different areas. In some areas, we have to allocate the cities. It is clear that when it comes to collective action, we know that the big cities get much more resources and follow-up than, for example, they do. rural. It's natural because there's a lot of people living here, and for the environment and accessibility, it's right to invest even more in public transport in the big cities than you do in the countryside. In economically deprived areas, it is right to engage in exceptional activities, creating new jobs where there are too few jobs. The party of progress won't. The Progress Party wants all parts of the country to have equal opportunities for the money that Innovation Norway has. This means further centralisation, which means further growth in those areas where there is already large growth, and it will mean a much stronger depopulation of rural areas. It is a very serious proposal which the Progress Party is promoting, and which I deeply regret.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e458	I am not really familiar with the description given by the representative of the Progress Party. I notice that the representative Ryan has traveled around and visited a number of companies. I think he's actually going to keep going, because it's a lot of good and useful knowledge to get there. I've done the same thing, and I've also been in some commercial gardens around and listened to the challenges they have. One of the challenges you have is the lack of capital. As Ryan's representative is aware, the business areas are located in areas without university and without higher education, and they also have no access to the competence that Ryan also called for in his post. So there's a lack of capital, and they're located in the districts. Today we are promoting a proposal asking the Government to set up a so-called 'pre-seed' fund in the context of the revision. Why won't SV support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e465	We've invested a lot of capital through seed resources so far. They are both national seed schemes, and they are district seed schemes. So we see that now it's good with capital in seed schemes. When I said in my speech that the Progress Party is involved in increasing centralisation, it is because the Progress Party today proposes that we abolish the cereal regimes that are specifically targeted at the districts. The Progress Party proposes that all the schemes under Innovation Norway should be nationwide and that districts where more capital is needed should not be allocated. So I believe that the Progress Party actually contributes to the injection of less capital in those areas where there is a need for more capital. We believe that the seed schemes we have today are satisfactory, but we are going to have a marine focus on this, and if there is a need for more, we will be willing to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e475	I registered that the representative Ryan told me in his post that he had visited small and medium-sized enterprises around the country of Norway. It's fine. I share his view that there is a lot of wisdom and effort behind creating jobs. I also expect the representative Ryan to hear about the frustration associated with all the forms and reports to be filled in and sent, as an information requirement from the public. These are often individuals who sit with more than late evening and night hours when others have gone to bed. Does the representative Ryan think it is right that the Norwegian business community has expenditures of about NOK 60 billion in reporting to the public? And: does the representative Ryan think it's done enough in this big time period to try to reduce it? I also think that SV has the Minister of Renewal and Administration, who has an important responsibility in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e480	The answer is that it's not necessarily done enough, because this is an area where you have to focus all the time. I remember that the representative Sponheim, when he was Minister of Industry, also focused on this with form fields, as one of the important issues. Suffering if a significant effort was made then it turned out that you did not get far enough. The same thing I think I have to say about this government. You have a focus on getting it reduced. It is clear that there is no objective in itself that it should be bureaucratic and that there should be a lot of form. The goal must be that it should be as small as possible, but it says seafaring that if a society is to work, it has to be some of it. It can't be zero. I will agree with the representative, Kongshaug, that this must always be the focus, in order to become more and more competent, so that it becomes as easy as possible for businessmen. When I meet the business community, they don't complain much about the tax. There are two things that they specifically ask me to do. One is that you have to make sure that we have access to labour. And the second is that there has to be more predictability in everything, and would like it to be easier to report to the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e487	The representative Ryan spoke about small and medium-sized enterprises. It's an engagement that I fully share. However, it is clear that these seed fund schemes, which are targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises, make only a very small proportion of the enterprises. I think we're talking about maybe just 1 pst. by small and medium-sized enterprises. So the Seed Fund scheme is not a big scheme for innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, the TAX FUNN scheme is a very broad system that is accessible to all and unbureaucratic and simple. But the government has chosen to weaken, and I think that is a little strange in relation to the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also the case that the increase in property taxes and the increase in generational inheritance tax take a lot of money from small and medium-sized family businesses. Does not the representative Ryan see that the government's actual policy has a rather sharp eye on innovation in these small and medium-sized enterprises that he spoke so hotly about instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e494	I believe that this government is pursuing a very active business policy towards the companies. We can discuss what are the right devices at any time, but on the tax side, I believe that companies should make a significant contribution to society, and so do they. I experience very little complaint and sutling from the companies that you pay too much tax. Then the companies see that you get back in the form of skilled labour, which you are very busy with. It may be the most important resource an enterprise has, and we need to provide an education system to ensure that you have skilled labour at all times. Then the state is very important, not least in such downtimes that are now, that we have arrangements and systems and have permitting rules that have been improved, so that we can also be a co-player when businesses are struggling, and also a co-player when making big investments. Then we have the instrument that can contribute. So I don't share Torbjørn Hansen's view that we've weakened the company's ability to evolve. I think we're actually doing a good job, and we have many types of arrangements that companies can use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e501	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e504	This paper provides a clear overview of the importance of innovation in achieving sustainable value creation in the Norwegian economy. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) is pleased that the Nordic model is highlighted as an important basis for innovation by the fact that employees, employers and authorities see a common benefit in the implementation of business readjustment and renewal. But words and good intentions are not enough. The Christian People's Party believes that the message should be richer in action. In these financial crisis times, it is more important than ever to take action to strengthen the survival potential of Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs. It seems that the Government is pleased to notify new messages and distributions, instead of launching measures to improve Norwegian innovation. For example, the Research Council says: at the hearing of the Business Committee on 12 February this year that the message is weak on concrete actions and that there are no more concrete actions, not least in the light of the financial crisis. And for my part, I would like to add that one could have been much clearer that the user-controlled system should increase monthly. The financial crisis is the time for real commitment to research, development and innovation. The framework conditions for Norwegian business can then certainly be improved. At educational level, there is far too little funding available to achieve a proper R & D effort. At the start-up stage, there is too little access to capital, while the tax regime is high and the form field is large. For established enterprises, access to risk capital is small, and incentives to invest in research and innovation are small. The government chose to streamline the TaxFUNN scheme, even if all the studies showed that this scheme worked well to release more private capital for research. The message's orientation round showed with all clarity that it would be necessary to do a new grip on this: simply improve the value of the treasureFUNN. It is tragic that this popular, unbureaucratic and accurate system is in danger of being destroyed as a result of the Ministry of Finance's almost manic control needs. Innovation takes place in enterprises. The majority of Norwegian enterprises are small, and they are family owned. In order for an enterprise to be able to drive innovation and development, more needs to be done to return values to the enterprise. The government should set aside horses and rhetoric and remove the taxes on wealth on working capital. It's the way this tax has to be paid, regardless of what the bottom line shows. This would be a good grip in a time of crisis. I would like to admit that in the Christian People's Party, we are very disappointed that the Government does not show any sign of misleading the removal of inheritance fees in family businesses. Over 99 pst. by enterprises are small or medium-sized. Half are family property. This is the backbone of Norwegian business. Well, 40,000 enterprises are ahead of generation change over the next ten years. There is no need for any further argument that the removal of inheritance fees for generation change in family businesses, following the model that we in the Christian People's Party have adopted, would be a glittering measure to strengthen survival and innovation in Norwegian business. The Christian People's Party will have a strategy to simplify their everyday lives and reduce the number of public reporting forms. We will discharge the audit obligations of small enterprises, in line with the recommendation of the minority in the selection of NOU 2008:12. And we want a review of Norwegian share laws, especially with a view to possible simplifications for small share companies. In this context, it is also necessary to include an assessment of whether the share capital requirement of the Norwegian share law should be replaced by other forms of creditor protection, in addition to Altin’s need to be strengthened and further developed. What about reducing support for non-altined ethers? We also lack new nationwide seed funds that can make capital available to companies at the idea stage. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government should sort out a seed investment and promote a case of this for the Storting. We also believe that fund-in-fund solutions, such as Argentum's fund investments, need to be further developed. SIVA’s important – yes, invaluable – role in innovation and business development should be more focused. SIVA’s commercial activities need to strengthen access to capital, because, both in the short and long term, they can help reduce the impact of the financial crisis, especially in the districts. Finally, several of the measures agreed in the climate agreement are not followed up by the Government. As emissions increase, the Government is reluctant to follow up on important climate measures that are widely debated in the Storting. Things seem to be waiting. Unfortunately, they fail red-green in the climate battle. Norway is missing out on new opportunities, new businesses and new green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e528	After hearing Sørfonn's comments, I understand that he experiences the situation in Norwegian business as very sad. But the Christian People's Party, like the other opposition parties, is critical of what they call a lack of simplification, despite the fact that the Government has made an action plan of 120 measures. We're betting on AltInn and ICT solutions. We refer to the EU Small Business Act. And we're assessing the usefulness of small businesses in introducing new legislation. I feel like we're doing what the opposition points out that we're going to do. In addition to the general wording of the article, can Sørfonn be specific about what measures are missing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e533	I only have one minute on the answer pattern, so there might be a little bit of time for that. But to answer in general, I understood that it was primarily this with simplification that the asker went into, I would like to admit that the government has – obviously – a strong will, but perhaps is unfortunately somewhat weaker. That's the way it is in many contexts. And to be concrete, the form field is increasing. A number of greps have been added to several departments. I will take a very specific case that the government party may be allowed to correct: the accounting laws are in the Ministry of Finance. Company laws are in the Ministry of Justice. Many of the measures that are important for enterprises are scattered in many departments. We suggest that they be collected in one department. Not least small businesses need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e540	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e543	St.meld. No 7, on an innovative and sustainable Norway, is an important document on an important topic. But it's more than that. This is the first big message about the phenomenon and the societal power of innovation. But sail the innovative based and must build on the obvious, namely the creative society. Creative people and creative enterprises are cornerstones of innovative, creative and driving societal development. The message is based on a broad definition of today's keywords: Innovation, called innovation, can be defined as ‘a new product, service, new production process, application or form of organisation that has been launched on the market or put into production to generate economic values’. In addition, a distinction can be made between gradual innovations and more radical innovations. Radical innovations involve the creation of qualitatively new products, processes, devices or thinking sets, i.e.: something that has not existed before either technologically or in other areas. I intend to link three comments to the theme: First, the centre-periphery dimension. In the future, it is essential that innovation policy has a clear geographical profile. The initiative must not least facilitate innovation, broad and deep markets of competence – also outside the Oslo region, Council of State! Here it is in place to refer to Professors Victor Norman and Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe, as in Social Denomination No. 6 of 2008 writes: ‘Globalisation at the same time has led to a unilateral accumulation of new knowledge-intensive activities in the Oslo area – a development that can lead to an economically costly, socially unfortunate and politically dangerous two-way division of the country.’ Strong words: ‘politically dangerous two-way division’. But their assessments are based on hard facts. The employment rate in knowledge-intensive industries is relatively highest in Oslo and Akershus, while all the other parts of the country are below the average and are relatively down to the capital region. The Central Party believes that this new Norwegian economic geography should lead to a new discussion of the centre-periphery dimension of Norwegian policy. In the innovative knowledge society, the centre is more clearly defined than before as the metropolitan area, while both the city and the country in the other counties are clearer than before. It is also a public political responsibility to facilitate a different development, a more balanced development between the centre and the periphery. In particular, this action supporting innovation and knowledge-driven business development is precisely peripheral. Secondly, political innovation. Take a truck or computer produced in 2009 and compare it with similar machines from e.g. 1970. With the naked eye it is clear to see traces of new inventions, new thoughts, new solutions. Ideally, policies should also be marked by innovation. Better policies, better solutions in line with time and circumstances, as it is called in mountainous regions. Political innovation, on the other hand, is often less visible, more difficult to measure. Not least will and should there be shared opinions on what characterises innovation in this field. It is in a sense a matter of the nature of policy. But this is true. It's solid. As politicians, we have a responsibility to contribute to increasingly better decisions on framework conditions, infrastructure and rules of play, which in turn help people to be creative and assist companies in their innovation work. In this respect, policy must not least be characterised by courage, leadership and willingness to bet. This is the track for and expression for in the Soria Moria statement. It is established that national strategies will be developed in five economic areas where Norway has competence or special advantages: maritime sector, travel, energy, environment and marine sector. Governments will also pay particular attention to innovation in service industries and in the north. This applies to special industries, and generally to these industries. In everyday life, however, we encounter individual issues with our own challenges. In the case of biodiesel, we have great opportunities to produce second-generation biofuels in Norway based on timber instead of food. There are great opportunities here if we have sufficient political will and strength and the necessary financial instruments. Let me round with the third: thoughts about the interaction between the international and the national. Aasmund Olavsson Vinje wrote about this relationship between world white and national white and how these processes go. So is innovation. The Brotherhood of the Inventions takes place abroad where people live most. It outlines the possibilities for us. Here we have opportunities for the good interaction between international and national art, culture and innovation: how one can get it disseminated from abroad to Norwegian conditions, and how Norwegian inventors can work positively in the international innovation process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e579	In his political career, Per Olaf Lundtigen has been one of the leading opponents of the market and competition. It is obvious here that Lundtigen is wrong, because it is the economies and countries that are internationally oriented, market-oriented and where there is good competition, which are also the most innovative. Lundtigen is also linked to the agricultural industry. The agricultural industry is a very closed industry, and an industry where there is little competition and little innovation. Does not Lundtigen now see that more competition in agriculture too could lead to a more innovative industry, in line with other competitive industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e586	This question is based on wrong facts. The representative, Lundtigen, has never been against the market. The centre party has never been against the market. The representative of Lundtigen has never been against competition. The centre party has never been against competition. What we've been brave and brave is an economic policy that gives a free flow of economic forces so that we get a greed and a social development that goes beyond anything that can be called ethical and moral decent. Fortunately, we now see a significant change in that – thank you and price! Point 2: In the field of competition, it is not only the monopoly game that develops monopolistic tendencies. If we don't have strong social regulation of competition, we get monopolies. That's why the Center Party will regulate the markets – thank you and the price at that point too!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e593	Small and medium-sized enterprises are themselves the backbone of Norwegian business. Over the next ten years, over 40,000 family businesses will be facing a generation change, and we know that is a real economic failure for many businesses. I assume that the representative Lundtigen knows about the Christian People's Party's model of exemption from the inheritance fee for a generation change in family businesses, a model that both hits them as one will help, and ensures against the abuse of the scheme. Then my question becomes quite simple: is this a model that tastes like the Center Party, and will the Center Party in the long run be involved in the realization of this glittering model?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e598	It's a model that definitely tastes like the Center Party. It's a model that got the uproar of our country meeting. It's a model that we're going to work on in the coming period. Why? Because it is based on the fact that in order to obtain an exemption or partial exemption from inheritance tax, a commitment must be made to the community, a commitment to the community. So you give something and you can get something. What you have to do is to carry on the activities for the benefit of both the employees, the community and the society of which you are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e603	The representative, Lundtägen, used an old trick — not to answer the questions asked. I asked questions as to whether Lundtigen does not see that it is in the most competitive and the more internationally oriented economy we see is the most innovative. My second question was about Norwegian agriculture, which is a closed industry, both for new people and for new capital. Does not Lundteg not see that agriculture, too, would be a more innovative industry if it had been more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e608	There was no attempt at any trick from my side. There was a need to get facts on the table when the representative Asmyhr started his post and based his post on something that was fundamentally wrong. Back to the case: competitiveness and innovation. I fully agree that internationally competitive companies live in an environment that is of the most demanding in terms of constantly changing. I'm going to be the first to say that Norwegian agriculture needs more people, needs more driving forces, to evolve towards what is necessary for the future. It means, for agriculture as for any other industry, that we must take the three international crises we are now facing, one must change, not least in its mode of production. It is a discussion that I am pleased to continue with the Advancement Party. The only problem is that the policies of the Progress Party are tearing away the economic basis so that individual farmers can implement that innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e618	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on the communication. I want to start by quoting from the introductory part to the staging message we are now processing. It says: ‘At these times, there are major challenges in the international financial markets affecting Norwegian business. This message is not about our policy to meet these acute challenges. Especially in troubled times, it is important to think ahead.’ For the Left, thinking ahead is important both in good times and in bad times. For most of the jobs of the future are not yet created, and as politicians we set the framework for how we want society to evolve. In future, if Norway is to be able to provide the same welfare services as today, it is absolutely necessary that we focus on education, on research, on innovation and on developing more efficient ways of operating the public sector. So far, the government hasn't been able to satisfy these points. The left is pleased that the Stortinget has received a big message about innovation. The government has taken a turn and says that they now care about entrepreneurs, care about small businesses, industrial research and the renewal of the public sector. The big question will be whether the Government is actually capable of action and willing to implement what it has outlined in this communication. The government has set itself the goal of renewing Norway. The Left shares the Government's visions, but in our view, unfortunately, the Government does not have the ability to follow up on practical policies. There will also be no driving force in innovation. For almost four years, the Left has seen that the red-green government has been holding its hands when it comes to innovation in business and the public sector. Where the previous government seized and invested in simplification, small businesses, research and entrepreneurs, this government has spent the last four years realizing that this effort is a key to maintaining our welfare systems and creating a greener Norway. Although the Government may seem to have ‘looked at the light’, the Government does not propose concrete measures that can immediately strengthen the innovation capacity of business and institutions, so that during the difficult times we are in, resources can be used to transform business to ensure the welfare systems and take important climate action. The government should put forward concrete measures aimed at investing in climate technologies, climate entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly conversion of existing businesses. If we are to be able to increase innovation, we need to strengthen the focus on research in general and industrial research in particular. We need to reduce the form field, and companies need to improve tax conditions as well as better access to risk capital. The government does not comply in these areas. The left will not create new large, state-owned structures such as investment funds or investment banks, but simple, unbureaucratic schemes that reward those who are willing and successful. Much of today's innovation takes place within established businesses. However, many good ideas are never realized. It will change the Left by introducing tax incentives to active bud shooting enterprises, using the tax FUNN scheme model. The left will ensure better access to risk capital for entrepreneurs through the public instrument and through tax incentives for private investors. The left considers that different instruments and public support schemes with partly little interrelationship and unbridled links contribute to curbing valuable innovation. There is a danger that the complexity of the instrument will contribute to the creation of inappropriately strong links between the instrument and the individual founder and reward those who are the best in briefing in the support device, rather than those who have the best ideas. The Left has therefore proposed a comprehensive review of Innovation Norway and other parts of the public sector, with a view to significant simplifications and improvements. Nor will this proposal be supported by the government parties. Despite the historically good times we have experienced in Norway in recent years, the government has failed to invest for the future. The previous government had to deal with a significantly smaller financial framework, but it was still able to invest in research and higher education. There will be too little time to address the major challenge of innovative public sector work in terms of innovation and modernisation. But there's a lot of work that all of the parties should be involved in. Finally, there has been a small incurrence by the fact that the Left does not co-appropriate proposal No. 15, on the winding-up of the statutory auditor’s obligation for small undertakings. It is too late to be a co-rapporteur, but I just want to say that the Left will support that proposal during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e656	It's noted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e662	The left says in the statement that they are concerned about access to venture capital for business. On the founder side, there is too little access to capital and, for established enterprises, access to risk capital is too small. We can read that to the left mine. But when we had suggestions about the state investment company Investinor, the Left actually voted against. I mean, it's not that easy to get what the Left really wants. Because in the setting we can also read: ‘This member will not create new large government structures such as investment funds or the investment bank’, etc. But in its alternative state budget, the Left just called for the establishment of a new state investment company, Climate Change. My question is: Is Left concerned about access to capital or not, and will Left have government investment arrangements for business or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e672	It is quite clear here that the representative Mr Eldegard has not understood the message of the Left. It's about yes, we're going to have government investment in areas where it's natural for the state to go into, but it's also important to stimulate private investment, for example. through the proposal of the Left on Climate Change, an investment fund in which private tax incentives are provided when they enter into and invest in climate technology in cooperation with the State. It's a good construction that history shows has given good results. We live in a country with a great opportunity to go into the future to take challenges around the climate seriously, but nothing happens, at least very little, in that area. This will be addressed by the Left, and therefore proposes a climate fund that provides tax incentives so that businesses can go into and invest in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e677	After all, we have gradually become accustomed to the left extending back to the previous government and, on every occasion, the previous government emphasizes the excellence in all contexts. But I don't know if the representative Kongshaug can help to refresh our common memory a little bit. For what was the previous government really doing that was so great, and that has meant such great progress for Norwegian innovation activities? Now, for a few years, these businesses have had a golden age, accumulated great values, and we're going to be careful to take over the responsibility of the companies for their own future. But what is the reason, the representative Kongshaug, that the companies have not made enough of the great value creation to ensure a great, epoch-making progress for Norwegian innovation creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e682	The previous government did a very good job in providing the right basis for innovation in this country, it was stimulated by the TaxFUNN scheme – and now you also see that the Left has proposals on CapitalFUNN after the same reading – or work to reduce the form field, and not least the tax policy pursued by the previous government, which was a dynamic tax policy that has led to today's government having NOK 260 billion more in tax revenue than it was in 2005. This is a fantastic situation, for which the previous government provided the basis through fiscal policy. So I don't have any problems highlighting good examples of what the previous government did. What irritates me more in today's situation is that the red-green government has a majority, but it's still the previous government that owes it to what's not going so well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e687	It can be perceived as an attack from the Labour Party on the Left in this case, with three from the Labour Party taking a line on the Left. But the representative Kongshaug should feel honored! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Kongshaug for the praise he gave me as a case spokesman. It's always nice to right. But as the rest of the opposition also says to the representative Kongshaug that there are great weaknesses and shortcomings, and mentions among other things. the research area. The research council is segregated more positively than they are negative. They are positive about what we do in patents, in the public sector, in research in general, in business doctorate, in taxation, environmental technologies, etc. Of course, most people want more, and the lack of which they have pointed out has been merged into the setting. What exactly do my left-wings mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e694	First, thank you to representatives of the Workers' Party who are taking a line. I think it's great. It's part of this room that we have a string change. So I thank you for that. On the specific issue, reference is made here to the Research Council's opinions. The Research Council has listed some positive elements in the Innovation Communication, that is correct. Then they have also listed several points on which there is no effort. It is a criticism from the Research Council, and then I appeal to the government parties, who now have a majority, to take that criticism as a constructive criticism, and to address these areas, for example. in the case of cross-ministerial innovation policies. So let's do that. medicine and health and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and an involvement in innovation there to develop new, good solutions in a growing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e701	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e704	Let me first thank the rapporteur and the committee for the work that has been done. As has been said here, this is the first major innovation message in Norway. I also think the setting shows that there is a broad consensus on the arrangements for innovation policy. It is good for Norway’s value creation that Stortinget provides such broad support for the main lines of the message put on the table. Then I am somewhat surprised at the tone of some representatives of the opposition, for example. The representative Hansen, who said something about the active industrial policy of this government, is weakening the business environment. It's a pretty uneasy claim at a time when the tool has never had as much money as it actually has now to create new jobs, to drive innovation and to meet the situation we're in. Very familiar are the vast majority of the business community, at least of those we meet, and there are many, satisfied with what the Government has proposed and adopted by the Stortinget. That is why it must be good, and it is, to the most extent, an active policy. Values must be created before they can be shared, and in order to maintain and increase well-being, we need to maritimely also increase value creation. Times in which we are now involved underline the need for renewal. When values and jobs disappear, we have to create new ones. It's always important, but it's especially important now. There are essentially two crises that are now being discussed in all countries: the financial crisis and the environmental crisis – and one could also add to the food crisis. We now have a unique opportunity to reconcile the challenges of the financial crisis and the environmental crisis, for everything cannot, and should not, continue as before. We need to create new and more sustainable jobs. In addition, we have other major challenges requiring innovation, which have been addressed by several speakers. Globalisation, which increases competition in the business world, puts our business against more competition than they've ever been exposed to. We also have what some people have been dealing with, that the balance between those who need care and those who work, change, and put our welfare system under pressure. We want to build our innovation policy on the Norwegian model: fair distribution, security and participation. I believe that we will also be able to make the necessary changes. Our welfare systems ensure high levels of competence, high levels of professional participation and a safety net in the process of conversion. It is a good basis for innovation and new value creation. Consider the unique opportunity we have in Norway, where workers, employers and authorities often sit together, around the same table, and find solutions in common. We're going to use that for what it's worth, even in the situation we're in now, and we're going to do that. We will also promote innovation to a much greater extent in the public sector. The Norwegian public sector is, and must remain, among the best in the world. That is why we will, among other things, review the incentives we have in public. We are going to set up a public body to look at innovation in the care sector, and we will not least strengthen the clinical units for testing new medicines and treatments, such as: Oslo Cancer Cluster. It is important to be able to provide people with better treatment and medicine and is a very good example of innovation in the care sector or in the health sector. We take, as we know, other steps, and I'm glad that there's broad support for many of the proposals. This applies, inter alia, to: in the field of entrepreneurship. We depend on many people in Norway who want to start new businesses, across the country. That's one of the reasons why, at the top of the instrument that we have, and which now has a lot of money at our disposal, we have also proposed and adopted here in Stortinget the new 150 million start-up grant. kr for the current year. It's going to be able to trigger 800 new businesses in itself. This is an important contribution to jobs. We are also going to make an action plan in this area. Not least, we're going to focus more on research, on environmental technologies and also on commercialisation, getting at the bridge from research to making money on it. There is also an enormous potential. Today, there are too many jobs serving abroad. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but we have to manage to hang several of them back to Norway. What we are researching, we also have to make more money in Norway. That's why the commercialization bit is very important, and I've noticed that the committee is also concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e726	Let me start by saying that there is a broad consensus about the measures that the Government has put into the message, it's just that some of us want a little bit more. However, if the Government wants to invest heavily in research, development and innovation, it is paradoxical that, in the case of ESA space programmes, the Government has taken steps to reduce Norway’s contribution by about a quarter. 70 million. the euro in relation to the level we have so far reached. Could the Council of State explain why at these times, when you really need it – and these are really innovative jobs and a huge research contribution – now have a much lower level of our commitment to space research?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e733	With regard to space research – which I fully agree with the representative of Fostervold in is important – Norway remains at a high level, and one will also see in the near future that we will come up with more concrete proposals on how to develop it further. Otherwise, we spend a lot of money on research. For the current year, we spend almost 20 billion dollars. Research appropriations have increased sharply since 2005. It also applies to the territory of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. It is crucial, especially in the time we are now in, that a lot is being researched, and that there is close interaction between research institutions, educational institutions and businesses, so that we can make a change of business and also come out of this situation in a more competitive way than is the case per. today. So we're going to use more, and we're going to keep going, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e741	The Minister of Industry began by referring to a comment from me that the Government has weakened the business environment during this major period. First of all, of course, it is not the business minister's fault, and it is not the innovation message that we are dealing with today, which is the cause of what has happened, but it is a fact that the competitiveness of Norwegian business has been weakened every year since 2005. It shows very clearly the main business organisation's competition barometer. It's about 11 billion kroner in tax increases, it's about a puzzled research effort, and it's also about low road construction priorities. My question is on a proposal in connection with the Innovation Communication, because there are little new measures in the Innovation Communication. But the opposition has looked at what is happening in other countries, and there is a deduction scheme for seed investments made by private individuals. After all, it is a broad measure, in line with the TAX FUNN scheme, which could provide very good access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. What is the reason why the Government will not even investigate such a scheme in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e748	I just have to say to the representative Torbjørn Hansen, when he says we're doing too little: let's go. It's an interesting area. It is an area where this Government, for the first time, over-filled the national transport plan, as the first government in Norway, knows me. Then we've come up with a proposal for a new national transport plan that points forward, and it's the best thing in history, I'm familiar with. It's seagoing – and I think we agree on that – it's very important also for business to go even better. But then claiming that we don't do anything, falls with respect to report a little on stone floor. This also applies in relation to the instrument — Investinor, which was opposed to the Right, Argentum, we have filled up, Innovation Norway, GIEK and Export Finance. No matter how many times the right likes to repeat that nothing happens, it's actually that they apply to this, is quite satisfied with what we've presented. They're talking about the arrangements we've put forward, and not about what Right is talking about the most. Then we're always always open to see if there are things that can be done even better, because it's not that everything is adopted once and for all. There we also like to have dialogue with Hansen, but on the right basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e757	Simplification of business meetings with bureaucracy is important, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, where owners and managers are busy securing businesses and jobs and taking care of their customers, and there will be little time to look for a bureaucratic labyrinth. Altin is a good traveler and a good direction, but we have to admit that a lot remains. I record that the business community is not always as pleased with the cooperation with the Government in the simplification work. There's a bit of a signal coming up on it. So my question is, will the Council of State strengthen cooperation with the business community when it comes to this important topic? And will she further develop Altin and possibly go to work so drastically and resolutely that she provides for reduced support for establishments that do not want to make use of Altin?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e764	We have very close contact with the business community and their organisations. This also applies to simplification work. But I'm going to strengthen it with the new Council for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, because I agree with the representative of Sørfonn that the challenges are greatest in preventing them from spending too much time on forms that are unnecessary. Rather, they should spend time on what they're going to do. So it's going to be further reinforced by the establishment of the new Council. Then we're not necessarily in the goal. I think that is quite obvious. But I nevertheless believe that it is a step forward that the maritime landing is now pre-filled. We have received many positive feedback on this, including from the business community. I also believe that it is an important step forward that we continue to develop Altin. It's some of the business that points to as an important tool for simplification. It's gotten a lot better, but we're not in the goal. We have to make sure, as the representative suggests, that we get even more floors in there, that it's even easier to figure out, so that one doesn't spend much time, but can press a button or two or three, and then get there a shell. That's the goal, and that's why we've also now started a new contract to develop it further. And we're going to go a lot further with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e771	Innovation is important in private business – we agree – but it is also very important in the public sector. There is a major challenge here in terms of better coordination between ministries as well. An example that I, as soon as possible, had in the line change after my post, is in the health sector. There is a need for greater coordination of policies on medicine, health and nutrition, i.e. between the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Food and Trade. Does the Council share the input of the Research Council and the Left’s view on the potential for the development of new innovative services and products in the healthcare sector in interactions between private actors and public institutions through good innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e778	Yes, I believe there is a great potential in the health and care sector for innovation to create more jobs. And I mean, with some experience after having been responsible for the health care sector, there's a lot of exciting innovation going on there, but maybe it's not that easy to register. There's a lot of good research going on in many areas, Oslo Cancer Cluster is an example of that. But one has been too little good at creating jobs. So getting the connection -- I've been in health before, and now I'm in nutrition -- gives a unique opportunity to get better treatment and better medicine, but also to make a store of it, that is, make money. What I think is one of the most important things we are going to do now after the treatment of this innovation message is what are the arenas and what means we are going to use to bring about the commercialisation of the interaction between public sectors and the creation of jobs. There's a lot of possibilities. I think we share that. And I guarantee that this is an area I'm very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e783	In its main thrust, the Council of State said that the global crisis we are now experiencing will lead to increased competition. It's obviously a proper observation. There's not just going to be a little bit more competition, there's going to be a lot more competition, because the market has now become so much smaller than it was before. This will lead to countries and enterprises that are the most innovative and capable of producing what is demanded by the market being the ones that will win in the big competition. If we raise our eyes a little bit and look at the world, we see that some countries, like small countries, have been very good at innovation. Our neighbouring country Finland is such a country. What does the Council of State think we can learn from the success stories of other countries that have been skilled at innovation, and why has the Government not used the opportunity it has had to take this kind of lessons from other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e790	Let me first say that for such a small country as we all are, with such an open economy, I think it is quite obvious – as the representative also says – that competition is only increasing. It will make greater demands on our companies to be able to compete. What I think is important then, first of all, is to look at what we can help our small and medium-sized enterprises in particular in relation to the rest of the world. We'll get back to that. The second is that we must ensure that our business life has good access to the most important markets. That is why we are now negotiating trade agreements with China, we are dealing with India – very large markets for Norway – and we are going to start with Russia as well. Only the three huge countries will be very important for Norwegian business. So we're going to help our businesses in the way that they want us to help other countries, and through innovation, put our businesses better able to meet the increased competition that's there, and that I agree is just going to get bigger in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e797	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e800	In uncertain times, as we are now, having innovative businesses is more important than ever. It is then important that we have a government that facilitates innovation in society. The government, through crisis packages, is committed to using the crisis to create jobs for the future. So there's a new country-based establishment grant. For this reason, the framework for Innovation Norway has been strengthened so that it can increase access to loans, guarantees and subsidies. It opens up for several companies to receive support for their projects. For this reason, the SkattenFUNN scheme has been extended and Argentum has been strengthened by DKK 2 billion. Today, we are dealing with innovation messages. It is the first time a government has issued a notice of innovation. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work he has done. The definition of innovation used in the message is: ‘a new product, service, new production process, application or form of organisation that has been launched on the market or put into production to generate economic values’. When one hears the definition, one understands that innovation can be done in many fields. Message is about a wide area such as innovation in the public sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation in the services sector, intellectual property rights and access to labour. I want to name some of these topics. Innovation in traditional industries is very important to me. In many communities, there is a high level of industrial competence and an important environment for development and innovation. This competence must be used to create both new innovations and new products. Not long ago, I visited Hydro's technology center in Årdal. Here they work every day to improve their processes. The production of aluminium with less power consumption and less pollution is a preliminary project in this country. It's innovation. Here I am talking about product development. And then it's actually pretty easy to understand the epitome of innovation. But innovation can also be made around a product, such as: on delivery, on marketing, on service, on processes and on organisational structure. It brings me to innovation in the service sector. With the large growth in the service industry, it is important that we also focus on innovation. The government has said that they will take initiatives to develop more systematic knowledge on service innovation with a view to developing effective and accurate tools. There are many industries that I think can join here, both in the field of experience, travel, ICT companies – for example. Finn.no is a good example of a company working with innovation. The fact that the Government is to present a strategy for SMEs is particularly good with this message. Very many enterprises in Norway are small or medium-sized. Then it is important that we focus on what can make everyday life easier for businesses, so that there is more time for innovation and production. An important measure may, for example: patent liabilities. The rights to inventions and innovations are very important. It is important to strengthen competence in this area, but what is so important is what the Government writes in its message on ‘better rights protection’. Now, there are many small, but still good companies in the country and a lot of patents. The challenge is that even if these companies have patents on their inventions, they have little opportunity to defend them. If a larger foreign company copies it, the patent holder often does not have the ability to do so. to go to court. It will cost too much, and companies have little business to set up. So action here will strengthen both Norwegian businesses and innovations. Capital is very important, and I might come back to that in a later article. I just note that the Right and Left, who were opposed to Investinor in their time, have turned around – and it is allowed to turn around. I also see that the opposition agrees with us in most of our remarks – and then they come with their suggestions. I have to say, there's not much new here. Most of them are rematches on old stuff -- not much innovation. One of the proposals is to abolish the auditor’s obligations. It can certainly be discussed, but if one believes that a company is becoming more innovative by releasing the auditor's obligation, then one has no idea what innovation means.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e831	The Councils of State said, among other things: in her post that she was pleased that there was such a broad consensus in the setting. I almost have to ask the Council of State to read the whole setting, because it is that the opposition has 15 proposals that are not supported by the red-green ones. So there's a certain consensus, but also a significant disagreement, where the opposition will go further than the government. The Council of State boasted that there has never been so much money in the public agency. That's right. But the crisis has never been bigger either. So what the Council of State should have asked questions is whether there is enough money in the instrument and whether enough has been done. Because it is the way that many people have been in this room – and it also appeared during the hearing – that this document is not good enough. It doesn't capture the situation we're facing right now, simply because it was made in a completely different economic time. Looking at how the state budget has been treated in this room, it has been more or less zeroed out a few times after it was adopted by the Storting before Christmas. And that's simply because the government budget has to catch up with the situation you're in, but it doesn't. You can see on page 45 of the message. It says: ‘The main strategy for meeting future labour demand is to mobilise domestic labour resources.’ In fact, the situation is that the challenge now is to meet the increasing — galloping — unemployment. When 23 companies go bankrupt every day, it tells them that the situation is demanding. So I think it's important that you see the whole thing of this. In any case, I am pleased that the instrument has to be evaluated, but that does not mean that we have to be paralysed. ‘District Policy Tool’ is an expression that is often used in this room and elsewhere. There are over 50 commercial farms spread throughout the country. They are located in areas without university and higher education, which is demanding. Now it is also true that business environments often form a centre in District Norway in terms of innovation and innovation, and often business environments have a role as birth aid for those with a good business idea. Hagene also has a great idea and good competence to work with entrepreneurs at an early stage. It is also the case that a state initiative triggers local and regional involvement in ownership. It also creates local cooperation, where private contributors participate in a financial network. You divide by bet and risk. If it is successful, you divide it, and you will also have a good competence in finance and commercialisation and profitability. One of the many challenges an entrepreneur in District Norway encounters is lack of capital, and especially in those times. Therefore, it is gratifying that there are several people talking about strengthening the business environment and SIVA – the Christian People's Party has been involved in it, the Left has been involved in it, and it delights me. What is disappointing, however, is that the Progress Party does not receive support for the proposal we have made. For the proposal we have made, we agree to close a hole that has arisen. There have been many packages from the Government that we in the Progress Party have supported far on the way. It was good they came – they came too late, of course, but fortunately we got the government to get on the road with the packages. But there has been a hole that is not being covered up, and that is what goes on in the commercial gardens and the needs they have there. So I hope that the parties that verbally support these thoughts in this room will also do so when we're going to vote on the proposal that goes to seed funds a little later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e852	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e855	In the message, the Government uses, among other things: The Tønsberg company Scanrope as an example of successful conversion and ability to renew – and rightly so. Scanrope, one of the country's oldest current industrial enterprises, has understood the importance of adapting to new markets and technologies. Today, Scanrope is a world leader in the production of advanced sea cables and huge anchor cables. Of course, there have also been waves for Scanrope, and everything has not always been as simple. But the company has had financial strength to meet changing times. I think it still applies, although there will always be limits to the patience of the owners. The international financial crisis has also turned this company upside down. The order reserve has shrunk in, and the majority of the employees are now on leave. So that's how Scanrope shares its destiny with a number of other companies. The question everyone is asking, which inevitably creates uncertainty, both in the management and employees of these companies, is how long owners can live with failing profitability, market and credit opportunities — not least. The car industry is an example of the challenges we are facing today. We know that the demand for new cars will rise again, and we have to prepare for the car industry to use more aluminium in the next generation of cars than today. Aluminium is a future metal that has more and more uses. Therefore, it will be sad that the skills built up in this industry, on which we will build further on when future jobs are to be created, fall away while we wait for the crisis to slip over. Therefore, the bridge between labour market policy and innovation policy is so important. Companies themselves are responsible for developing their own opportunities and creating their own future. Norwegian business has been able to compete in international competition. It has to be the same in the years to come. It's a cross of thought to me that 70 pst. Of the businesses we have today, probably will be gone in ten years, and half of the businesses that are to feed today's schoolchildren are not yet created. Therefore, conversion is a necessity and part of our common everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e866	Innovation is always important, but in a recession that is now particularly important. And then, in my opinion, it is important that innovation policy is linked to labour market policy. The active substances may be used in such a way as to make positive use of the permeability of the plant so that the holding is strong when it rises. That is why, in my view, it is also very good that the innovation message is coming now. Then we're going to deal with it in the most demanding situation for Norwegian business after the war. I think the government has submitted a good message, and I notice that it has received broad support in the committee – at least I perceived it this way until I heard the comments of the representative Korsberg instead. It has been said very wisely in the hall today, and I will be very careful to link a few comments to, among other things. SIVA. In the budgetary downturn in the context of the State budget of the year, there was an overall committee which registered the innovation and networking activities of SIVA and which expressed great satisfaction with the cooperation established by SIVA with commercial, knowledge and research parks and industrial incubators. The work has not become less important in months that have passed. I point out that the opposition has constructive comments in the committee position related to SIVA, which suggests that there is solid support behind SIVA as an instrument actor in Norway today. I think that's important and positive. When evaluating SIVA, it is important that it is done realistically and in the light of the clarifications and guidance given by the Stortinget in Innst. S. No 30 for 2004-2005. But first of all, it is now important that SIVA be guaranteed the necessary means so that they can really be offensive in the difficult period we are now in. Otherwise, I would like to mention an industry that has not been favoured by the authorities for the past 30 years. I think of the mineral industry, which despite little attention from the authorities represents an export value of NOK 6 billion. Everything we surround with technology comes from the mineral industry. Here we have exciting and certainly undiscovered resources. It is almost incredible that mainland Norway is the worst area in Scandinavia. Here are some possibilities. Fortunately, we now have a government that wants something about the mineral industry. Now new mineral laws are in place, and as part of the Northern Region Strategy, NGU is now launching extensive flight mapping of resources in the North. There is a need to build skills and new capacities in management, research and innovation. That's the challenge we have in front of us in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e877	It was mentioned here that this innovation message was not adapted to the crisis we are in now. No, that's right, because this is an exceptional state. The answers to the challenges under the financial crisis are contained in all the action packages presented by the Government. During the work on the message, the Committee noted that financial instruments for the commercialisation of goods and services originating in the health and care sector were perceived to be inadequate. In the opinion of the Committee, better arrangements such as this should be considered. may contribute to the introduction of a product from medical research and the placing on the market. The debate has called for better innovation in the public sector. The message places great emphasis on innovation in the public sector. A strong and effective public sector capable of renewing as needs change is very important to ensure good services across the country. In the health and care sector in particular, we need to find new ways to solve the major challenges. The public purchases goods and services for nearly 300 billion dollars a year. It's a lot of money. Innovation in public procurement is of great importance, both for taxpayers and for business. The government has said that it will strengthen the competence of how public procurement can lead to more innovation and how the public can facilitate this with regard to business. That's good. Strategic use of public procurement can stimulate business to focus more on innovation, thus helping to make our business more competitive. The fact that the purchasing rules of some people are perceived as unflexible and that a person has little room for action to think about when to buy a good or a service is, of course, unfortunate. For example, there may be a need for more expertise in the field of legislation. I would like to make it clear that, through the use of environmental requirements, public authorities also need to stimulate industry to eco-innovation, so-called green innovations. This will certainly be an important element of the announcement of public procurement, which will come to Stortinget this spring. Finally, I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate. It has been a useful debate, and I hope that one will come up with good and constructive proposals for Norwegian business through the discussion of this innovation message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e894	The debate is not over yet. The next speaker is the representative of Steinar Gullvåg. He's currently the last recorded speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e897	I do not think we should end this debate without saying any well-chosen words about young entrepreneurship, not least because last year there was a boy boy from Nøtterøy who ran off the farm with the first prize in the nationwide competition that Young Entrepreneurship has for youth businesses. The young entrepreneurs had developed a slalous socks with padding against the tibia – an idea just as simple as it is brilliant – as a solution to a problem many alpineists have experienced, namely a slalous tail that gnashes against the tibia. This year, I put my trust in a handball bag from Sandefjord for protection against adhesives on clothes and training bags – also it an idea derived from experience and needs – and with a great market potential. Under the direction of the Young Entrepreneurship organisation, several thousand young people are given the opportunity to learn entrepreneurship every year – how an idea can be developed and commercialised into an enterprise. The students work with real ideas, do real production, real sales, have real customers, real money and real accounts. It's a lesson that can be very good to bring into adult life. Creativity is great. And it's incredibly interesting to notice that every fourth student who joins Young Entrepreneurship starts his own business before he's 30 years old. Equally impressive is the fact that the quarter of the girls and the third party of the boys become leaders in Norwegian business – if we are to believe the statistics. Many continue to engage in the same activities as they gained experience in the youth enterprise, and it turns out that two thirds of these enterprises live on three years after they started. So young entrepreneurship is an adventure in itself, and I am very happy that the government is now expanding this system and expanding it to include both universities and universities. It is good for innovation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e906	With this good tribute to young entrepreneurship, the debate is in substance. 1 over. [[Footage, see page 2522]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e924	When the Government took over in 2005, it was a good move in the Norwegian economy. It was strong growth, and all arrows pointed in the same direction when it applied to Norwegian business. The public sector received its share of the revenue, and the room for budgetary action was significant. It was as Arne Strand in the newspaper described it: the government came to the deck table. The government opted for an active industrial policy and would invest in no less than five key industries: tourism, energy, the environment, marine industries and the maritime industries. However, good times led to a debate about how to spend more money in the public sector and a distribution debate on how to ensure that those who had the most in the past received higher taxes. The government has so weakened the business environment every year, if we are to believe the NHO competition barometer. It is also a fact that the Government has chosen not to follow the rules of action regarding the use of oil money. Only 15 pst. oil revenues have been allocated to road construction, research and growth-promoting tax relief, while the Bondevik II government used 85 pst. for the type of purpose. A clear trademark of the Government’s industrial policy has been tax increases. Curiously, tax increases have been strikingly targeted at the so-called key industries. The fishermen got the NOx fee. The maritime sector received the bill into a so-called transitional arrangement for a new shipping tax scheme – plus its share of the NOx tax. As an introduction to this inter-pell debate on maritime business and the financial crisis, we have to state that businesses are less equipped to meet downtime than they would have done with the policies of the previous government. It is true that when businesses become weaker, the wealth of those who own them falls. This way, of course, differences in Norway are decreasing. However, this also has consequences for the number of unemployed in the same companies when they face more difficult times – when uptime is turned to downtime. This will in particular have consequences for the survival of holdings in the maritime cluster. Norway has a very central position in international shipping and maritime supply. The cluster counts over 100,000 employees, and the turnover is over 100 billion kroner in total in the maritime cluster. Part of the cluster is based on proximity to oil and gas extraction. But a lot is historically conditional and based on an up-to-date and heavy special skill in many individual companies operating in fierce competition internationally. History has been shattered. The political environment in Norway has had a strenuous relationship with the shipping industry. The framework conditions have been frequently changed as the allocation policy has required its markings. This has been particularly evident during this magnification period. The background is that shipping as an international industry is characterised by significant and clearly unfortunate tax competition — initially with regard to taxation of maritime companies and shipping companies, but also in the next round with regard to reimbursement schemes, subsidies and net pay arrangements for employees. In the past, we also had significant shipbuilding subsidies, but this has fortunately decreased in recent years – perhaps with the exception of some relatively unreasonable tax-leasing schemes in Spain, for which I know the Council of State is also interested. Despite the previous turbulence around the framework conditions, however, there was a shock when the Stoltenberg II government, which had promised to invest in the maritime industry, brought its so-called transitional system to the new shipping tax system in the autumn of 2007. The reality of this was that the tax exemption was forced back into the original company tax scheme from 1996. So initially, the entire tax credit of NOK 21 billion, which was then referred to as ‘tax debt’ and ‘pays the shipping companies owes the State’, would be collected over ten years through forced transition to a new system. It goes without saying that a tax tightening of DKK 21 billion weakens the basis for operating shipping in Norway and the basis of the supplier industry for this business. To be more precise: it is a fundamental weakening of the companies that had been naive enough or unlucky enough to drive from Norway under the previous system. Those who then chose to fly out can now fly back without costing them one penny. However, a few days before the tax shock, Minister of Economic Affairs Dag Terje Andersen presented a maritime strategy with the title ‘Shoulder kurs’. In the presentation of this strategy, with only 100 million. In research actions, the Minister of Industry stressed that the forthcoming EUR 21 billion tax shock announced in the media would be reduced to EUR 14 billion. The point was that the 7 billion between them would be equity if the shipping companies used the money for environmentally friendly investments once in the future. Now almost all initial investment in the shipping industry is environmentally friendly, so this part of the arrangement appeared to be relatively acceptable. On the other hand, the government, at the Ministry of Finance, was no less than putting a large line across the whole environmental fund by designing a regulation for this environmental fund that was so tight that the companies were not able to approve this money as part of their equity. Thus, the 7 billion disappeared out of equity with full effect in the annual statement for 2007. Right, and the opposition, and the business itself have fought with beaks and claws to get these 7 billion back where they were promised. Only in January this year, the Minister of Finance dropped the grip and adjusted the regulation so that this part of the tax haven could be returned to equity. I want to isolate for a moment this particular issue – the environmental fund – and give the government credit for turning around at this point now in January. It was an important measure to strengthen the balance of Norwegian shipping companies and thus the possibility of financing the activity along the coast. Part of the 2007 argument was that the shipping companies could afford to pay. They had a good profitability and built up large reserves. This argument is important to also take into account the debate on how to deal with the financial crisis today. Indeed, the shipping companies, which order goods and services from all over the maritime cluster, are struggling heavily during the financial crisis. This is a highly market-sponsored business – economic change is giving a strong impact through a reduction in transport needs in the world. The changes in transport needs are reflected in significantly lower transport rates. This affects the values of ships, and counterparty risk increases sharply. In addition, many companies have taken a high risk by contracting new vessels during the rise times and are now facing severe exposure to tonnage with uncertain income potential. Shipping is marked by a high risk. It is not our job as politicians to remove this risk, but it is the nature of the industry that profits must be high in time to defend the risk of meeting bad times. That is why I think the 2007 government argument was relatively thin and short-sighted. It is also part of this case that many legal experts believe that taxation is retroactively contrary to the Constitution. Several of the tax requirements now hold a strong course against the Norwegian Supreme Court, and it has not been given that the Government’s maritime strategy tolerates the meeting with the Norwegian judiciary. Then, of course, the Right and the Maritime Industry are in favour of the new shipping tax system. It makes it possible, in particular, for the smart players – those who flagged out and not proud of the previous scheme – to return to a good system. Those who change into a new system are, in isolation, given positive framework conditions in the future. Nevertheless, the effect of this tax shock of 21 billion kroner is reasonably clear. This leads to a heavy write-down of equity. First, the present value of the tax bill is 21 billion kroner. Now the equity with the present value of $7 billion can be rewritten. However, in any case, lower equity in these enterprises is a problem in terms of funding. There is a problem in maintaining the activity of subcontractors – the yard industry, the service industry – who live on a strong maritime cluster. So to the actual payment of the tax. Those affected by the transitional regime have to pay NOK 1.4 billion each year. 1.4 billion kroner were paid in 2008, so in 14 days this very crisis-stricken industry will have to pay 1.4 billion kroner to an overcrowded state fund. It is evident that the withdrawal of this type of liquidity over a period of time will have consequences for activity and jobs in Norway. What I want to invite you to, is a discussion about how the Government is going to handle exactly these payments in the light of the financial crisis. If the Government wants to pursue a so-called active industrial policy also for the maritime cluster, it is fully possible to bridge the crisis even for this industry. This can be done without taking a new round of the whole basic debate on the re-taxation and legitimacy of it. The government can use exactly the same means of action that has been used in some other areas of the crisis package, namely postponing the payment of taxes. In practice, this means that the remaining nine payments of the amount of DKK 1.4 billion can be pushed forward in time. It can be pushed forward for several years in time or even one year in advance, so that the bill does not have to be paid in mid-April, but can be paid later, like other measures. It is a business policy paradox that we have a government that claims that it is concerned with securing the jobs, but at the same time weakens the companies as much as it has done in this case. I hope that today we can have a good debate in which to discuss these kinds of instruments in order to address the consequences of the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e986	I think we can quickly agree that this industry is also most affected by the financial crisis we are in. In my meetings with representatives of the maritime industries – which I have had many of the last months – there are first and foremost three things they have been concerned about. It's making the banking system work, it's, among other things. bond funds, which have been welcomed, and that is not least the instrument – and I am thinking specifically of the increases we have made within the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit and Export Finance, to give two examples of this. The interpellant raises questions about what the Government will do to strengthen the liquidity and competitiveness of this important industry. As is known, the new shipping tax was introduced in 2007 as part of the government maritime strategy. The companies that enter into the scheme are given an approximate tax freedom, and the scheme is therefore competitive and in line with the arrangements in some EU countries. The new shipping tax scheme, combined with the Norwegian position in maritime activities, means that Norway will be an attractive country for shipping investments and shipping location options. The freedom of taxation of shipping companies in the new scheme makes a solid contribution to the liquidity, profitability and competitiveness of the shipping industry. I have noticed that the interpellant arranges for a temporary deferral of the company's tax liability, which has been estimated in total for an annual payment of approximately NOK 1.4 billion. These are payments related to the settlement of tax credits under the previous company tax scheme. The interpellant indicates that, for the rest of business, a temporary allowance has been introduced to restore company deficits in 2008 and 2009 against taxed profits over the previous two years. Settlement of the tax credits from the previous scheme was part of the overall solution put forward by the Government to the Stortingen to put in place a new competitive shipping tax scheme. Two thirds of tax credits could be settled over a 10-year period, while the remaining third, known to be set aside, could be set aside as funds for environmental measures in shipping companies. The government has no plans for a further deferment of the tax liabilities created by the shipping companies within the old scheme. There is reason to believe that a further postponement would not have affected the profitability of new investments in Norwegian shipping either. The cyclical tax relief applicable to companies in the ordinary tax system of 28 pst. tax on profits, on the other hand, is much more targeted. This arrangement takes the companies that pay profit taxes and that have gone from a surplus position to a deficit position. Since the companies do not pay profit taxes in the tax-free shipping sector, they are largely outside the target group for this scheme. However, in the case of companies with a financial deficit, the scheme may have a certain importance. Tax freedom for the shipping industry means that the State does not share the losses with the companies through the tax system in bad times, just as it does not take any of the profits in good times. However, the shipping industry has sought and pressed for the elimination of risk-sharing between industry and the country by working for tax freedom and tax credit schemes. The government has already announced measures for tax credits that further mitigate the impact of tax credits. The environmental regulation will be amended to end the 15-year period for the use of the Environment Fund with effect from the financial year 2008. It shall ensure that the Environment Fund can be held as equity, as foreseen. Legislative proposals will also be made for a relaxation in the ban on loans and guarantees for companies with tax credits from the previous scheme. The change will allow for a more efficient use of the capital of the companies. Those changes have already been notified to ESA for approval. These changes will strengthen the equity of shipping companies, facilitate access to financing of investments in ships and environmental measures, and have positive ring-effects for Norwegian yards and equipment suppliers, for which the Government has been said to be very concerned. The interpellant's questions also give me the opportunity to inform the Storting about the other measures taken by the Government towards the maritime industries, both in the context of the maritime strategy and as a result of the difficult economic situation we are facing. With regard to the maritime strategy, the Government, in addition to shipping taxes and net payroll schemes, has followed up with increased funding for maritime research and innovation with an environmental profile. Additional appropriations have also been granted for maritime education and competence. It will strengthen innovation in the maritime industries, provide higher value creation and contribute to a greener fleet than is the case today. In this area, a real difference can be made in environmental issues. Before the summer, I will present a report on the follow-up of all the 54 actions of the maritime strategy. As you know, the maritime industries are strongly exposed to the global financial crisis and international recessions. This has also been reflected in the many action packages we have presented to the Stortinget. In addition to those adjustments related to tax credits and shipping taxes, the Government has implemented several measures with a direct and indirect impact on maritime business and value added. I have mentioned GIEK, Export Finance and the two banking packages – as some examples. Overall, this provides greater security for the maritime enterprises. Norwegian shipping companies currently have about 100 new construction contracts, worth about 50 billion kroner, at Norwegian shipyards. So far, few contract cancellations have been reported, but a significant proportion of these contracts have not yet been fully financed. We are following this development very closely, we are engaged in close dialogue with representatives of the industry, and we are also constantly considering whether further action may be needed. In general, I would also like to say that it is important to be restrained from subsidising industries and enterprises that do not have the right to life, at a time when conversion is a keyword. We need to contribute to and stimulate innovation, transformation and research to ensure that Norwegian business is strengthened out of the crisis. Here I believe that this part of the business community has a lot of good advantage. The economic crisis underlines the importance of creating and developing enterprises. When jobs are lost, we must make sure that new ones are created. That is precisely why we have had a debate here in this Chamber on the innovation message, which will also be an important contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1028	I would like to thank you for the reply from the Council of State. There is no doubt that the situation we have in the maritime cluster will have a major impact on coastal jobs in Norway. An estimate from the Norwegian Industry shows that one offshore ship ordered at a Norwegian shipyard is about 500 Norwegian annual works – that is, a significant number of jobs. But so far in 2009 no new orders have been delivered to Norwegian shipyards. This means that we are facing a quite significant downgrading of the activity in this industry when we get to the point where the contracts that are being concluded are due to expire. When we look at what happens to contracts concluded, statistics from the Norwegian Veritas tell us that 433 shipbuilding contracts have been cancelled since last autumn. The Council of State now provided information on the status of Norwegian shipyards, where there are 100 new construction projects in the 50 Norwegian yards, but many of them are not fully funded. I think it is positive that the Council of State will follow the situation closely, and that further action is being considered. But there is no doubt that the tax consolidation that came will have a major impact both on the possibility of financing contracts entered into and on the financing of new contracts. We have also seen in the media that individual companies have had to dispose of ships as a result of the new shipping tax system and its intensification. So the Council of State said in its statement that the Government has no plans for any further deferral of these tax payments, and that such deferral will not affect the profitability of new projects. It is obvious that that type of tax payment does not affect the profitability of new projects. What this debate is about is the ability to undertake new projects on the basis of the equity situation of enterprises in relation to access to liquidity. It is obvious that it is significantly weakened. Although the transitional shipping tax scheme does not affect the profitability of new projects, it is obvious that the type of payments impairs the ability to undertake such new projects. That's why it might be interesting to get the Council's view. Does the Council see that 1.4 billion kroner in payments now 15 April will have consequences for Norwegian jobs? Does the Government see that this is a measure that will weaken the basis of the maritime cluster? And what, then, is the background for not being more active in applying exactly the same action that is being taken in relation to the rest of the financial crisis, namely to give up a little on the payment deadlines for this type of tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1039	There's one thing that's job no. 1 for this government, and that is to make sure that as much work as possible is in progress. Where companies have to be lost because of the difficult situation we are in, we do what we can to create new jobs and – not least – to secure the individuals who need them. It also applies to this industry. We have already made significant changes to the shipping tax system. We're following up the maritime strategy point by point, we've put in more money, as I explained in my main post, and we've presented a lot of crisis packages. And we're following evolution all the way. I see that there are representatives of some seafarers in the gallery. It makes me think of the net pay system that has been adopted, which we have put in place, which is expanded and very stable. It is also, as is known, extended to all NOR ships, it has been extended to Hurtigruten, and has become a very good arrangement. I notice that the Right – and I have looked at the budget for the current year – does not give priority to securing jobs at sea. This means that on the one hand, the right is very much to make further improvements with regard to the shipping tax system, while on the other hand, with regard to the net pay scheme for those who work in the industry, they propose a cut in terms of reimbursement per person. employed. This would not help to secure coastal workplaces, which would lead to increased coastal leave. I feel that Right speaking with two tongues in this case. The net pay scheme is also a very important system for caring for the many who work in this industry, where we see that many people are struggling in these days. So we have increased the appropriations for the reimbursement and net pay scheme, the number of seafarers in the scheme has also been increased, and we have the ambition to ensure that as much as possible has a good job with proper wages in this industry in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1054	As the interpellant points out, the international financial crisis is increasingly felt in our most international industry, shipping. Several shipping companies now mark the failure of the transport market and place ships in storage. In particular, this applies to car cargo. At the same time, construction works are cancelled by both Norwegian and foreign yards. This, of course, also affects the supplier industry. As far as I have been informed, Norwegian shipping companies have cancelled 20 contracts for a value of approximately NOK 3 billion at a foreign yard. Norwegian offshore shipping companies now have 104 ships in order at a value of NOK 54.3 billion at Norwegian shipyards. There is uncertainty in the financing of half of these. In my opinion, the government has managed the crisis exemplaryly. The increase in the GIEC and Export Finance frameworks has been of great importance to the maritime industries. The equity of the shipping companies has been strengthened by the removal of the time limit for the environmental fund component of the new shipping tax scheme and the government has eased the conditions for loans and guarantees in shipping taxed companies. The interest rate decline has also been of great importance to the maritime industries. Furthermore, there is generally an opportunity to recover deficits in 2008 and 2009 in return for profits in the previous year. The government's banking package, with a financial fund and a bond fund of up to DKK 50 billion each, will also help to facilitate the financing situation for businesses in maritime industries. At the same time, the situation is worrying, and I'm glad that the Government now has an alert eye for the development of the maritime industries. The government has invested in Norwegian shipping. The new shipping tax system has already led shipping companies to flag their ships home. And the net pay system has undoubtedly prevented the flagging out of several thousand Norwegian seafarers' jobs. With the support of the Maritime Organisations and the Shipowners' Association, the Government has chiseled out a strategy to make our maritime industries the most innovative and environmentally conscious in the world. Nevertheless, the main threat to Norwegian maritime activities is not from the outside. It's coming from inside! In the wake of the financial crisis and in a situation of growing unemployment, we find that shipping companies that have lived high in Norwegian oil companies register their ships under flags of convenience, throw Norwegian seafarers on land and replace them with underpaid Filipino crews. This is social dumping of the worst mark and is just as unacceptable at sea as on land, requiring the reintroduction of the requirement for work permits for non-residents wishing to work on Norwegian continental shelf. It was as well-known as the Bondevik government that, with the support of the Progress Party, abolished this scheme. The unflagged bow-loaders of the Teekay and Knutsen OAS companies are likely to be the precursors of a development that will speed up if not stopped. In fact, there is a serious danger that thousands of Norwegian seafarers who are currently manning the Norwegian offshore fleet will be gradually displaced by cheap Eastern labour. In the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation, silence is deafening. There you never take any settlement with your own. Also in StatoilHydro, which is a party to the bowloads contracts in the North Sea, is the management and Helge Lund and folds hands and looks into the silent acceptance of undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. No contract is required for pay and working conditions. That's just the price. But what is happening now should interest Helge Lund and the management of StatoilHydro to the highest degree, because it should not be easy to fight for Norwegian offshore industry northward along the coast when we see that important jobs do not end up in Coast Norway, but are occupied by underpaid foreign labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1075	The interpellant focuses on one of our most important industries — and one of our oldest and most proud industries. The maritime cluster in Norway is quite unique. Here we have long traditions over many generations. This is an area that we can. Norway is one of the world’s leading nations in terms of shipping, not only on the shipping side, but also in terms of the competence of our seafarers. That's why it's obvious that this is an industry that we still have to bet heavily on. This is something that we can do. We're better than most people in this area, so it'll be hard for others to compete with us. The industry has built up well-being over many generations. The maritime cluster is one of our most complete clusters and includes shipping and industry, shipbuilding and supply industries, seafarers, banks, insurance, finance, brokers, audit — both internationally and nationally. It's our focus on the world. If there is one area where an active industrial policy is required, it is precisely for the maritime industries. I want to say that if we manage to pursue an active and offensive industrial policy towards the maritime industries, it will also be a good policy for the rest of the Norwegian industry, precisely because this is a cluster that is so familiar with other industries. During this period, the government has not pursued a consistent policy towards this industry. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there's been some security around the net pay system. A new company tax system has been put in place, but at the same time a tax regime has been introduced which allows many companies to absorb large parts of their equity. Clearly, there is no predictable policy. You give with one hand and take with the other. In addition, I would say that the government has not used the growing period that is now on the increase, to promote a larger case of what we want with the maritime industries in the years to come. A maritime action plan has been promoted with many good points, but it is a document that Stortinget has in no way been invited to decide. It is clear that had the Stortinget got a case on this, the industry might have felt a more long-term security for what will be the policy of the future. We have had a debate on innovation in the past today, and this is an industry of significant innovation. It's a innovative industry, and here there's going to be major technical changes in the years to come, which will be positive for the environment and for those who work in the industry. The interpellant has focused on an important topic, but I want to say that the Right is a party that should not simply be looking forward to its policy towards the maritime industry. We saw in the previous ageing period what uncertainty was created around the net pay scheme. We also know that several of those who were government parties at that time are still creating a dispute over the net pay scheme. There's something the Progress Party won't be in. We now have to get a legalization of the net pay scheme and create security that this is a system that we still want. Like Mr Gullvåg, I would also like to comment on the concern we are now seeing regarding the handling of Norwegian seafarers by certain shipping companies. This is not acceptable. It's little forward-looking by the shipping companies that do this. The government should urgently promote a case for the Stortinget where the Stortinget can decide what alternatives we have in order to secure the future of Norwegian seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1097	It is alarming to hear the Council of State replying to the interpellant that deferred payment of NOK 1.4 billion will not affect the profitability of new projects. It is clear that it affects the overall situation and ability of shipping companies to invest. After being challenged by the interpellant, the Council of State only answers in general terms about what has been done for the industry, which of course the Stortinget is familiar with from before. So – not surprisingly – you land on the net pay scheme. But it's not the net pay system that creates the jobs, it's building and operating new ships over a longer period of time. It is also alarming to hear that the industry itself is not concerned about this. It's not my impression when I join the press and the public debate. The payment of DKK 1.4 billion could be settled via a deferral, just as the deficit industries in 2008 have received their overall tax deferral. In principle, there's no difference. I must say I am surprised that the Council of State does not want a dialogue with the inter-pellant and with the Storting on this. We're going to repeat this in the future, as we did with the environmental fund problem, where the government finally bowed down. That is how we need to be strengthened through this economic crisis. Then we must invest in the international industries, which also have significant ring-effects in our own country. I think it is sad that ideological tax horses are almost riding on this issue. But I know that the rhetoric towards the shipping companies and their owners goes on this with taxes for the rich, so I understand that it can be difficult to look at the practical solutions in the crisis we're facing. I think most people have come to realize that this government does not bring tax cuts. It's not going to stimulate the businesses with it. What we've looked at on the tax side are aggravations for business with which there was no reason to do any of the world's things, even though you now see the crisis escalating. I believe that the government has an opportunity to demonstrate its power of action by providing the industry with significant liquidity by suspending these payments. It would be an active policy that would reduce the disadvantages that the Government itself has inflicted on the industry, and provide a certain skin of the active business policy that you would normally want to pursue during this period of government, but which has gradually become a fog concept that is difficult to see. It is strange that it is so difficult to see that, in order to reduce unemployment and job security, there is a need to sacrifice a minimum of attention to businesses, not systematically weakening them by taxation which weakens both the ability to invest in initial investment and expansion. Safer jobs and the reduction of unemployment are created through stronger enterprises, not through stronger taxed enterprises. I believe you now had a golden opportunity to engage in dialogue on this. Finally, just two words about the post by the representative Steinar Gullvåg. This with active enterprise policies is limited at the beginning of this government period to shoot at the heads of state enterprises. I note that the representative of Gullvåg continues his active industrial policy by using Stortinget's spokesman to communicate with Statoil's top management. I would recommend that the General Assembly should normally be used to communicate its messages with our largest and most important company.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1116	Norway is a small country, but we're a great deal on the sea. We're responsible for more than one-twenty of the transport at sea. Before offshore we have become the most modern and the world's second largest fleet. Our strong international position is strengthened by the fact that Norway has a complete maritime environment to subtract competence. It has already been said, but it should be repeated that the maritime industries have a total value creation of nearly 100 billion dollars. This is 7.5 pst. of the total value creation of Norwegian business. With approx. This is a major player in the Norwegian industry. Reiarlag makes a decisive contribution to the rest of the industry, and is a long way from developing it. But now this industry is a hardbed by the financial crisis. Shipping is, of course, a co-cyclical and capital intensive industry operating globally. Now it is faced with a sharp fall in demand, both in the traditional freight markets and on the offshore side. At the same time, the industry is strongly affected by the drying out of the capital market. The injection of equity is not easy to recover, and banks have a stoppage of lending. Many shipowners have large order books on the yard, ordering where funding is not yet in place – we have heard this, but it is an important part of the picture – and where the ship's values are now in free fall. Half of the 100 ships built in Norwegian shipyards have not yet received funding. For Norwegian shipyards, it is dramatic if subcontracting failures or problems with financing require the cancellation of offshore ships. 80 pst. of the webbing of their contracts consists, in spite of everything, of offshore ships. At the top of a particularly demanding situation as a result of the financial crisis comes, in addition, the government's withdrawal of equity. This peculiar and extensive withdrawal of equity and liquidity has seen Norwegian fleets in a significantly more exposed and vulnerable position than competitors. The Christian People's Party understands that some shipowners' teams will now try this matter legally in relation to the Basic Law's destinations of retroactive force. But the government can take other measures to improve the fleet's liquidity and equity, thus contributing to the companies and fleets' ability to survive in time. First, the Government may offset the time of repayment of non-environmental funds. It will be a deferral that does not reduce the total amount of payment but that would be a time adjustment that reduces the extraordinary liquidity tax that Norwegian fleets have at this critical stage. Secondly, the Government can keep in mind that GIEK and Export Finance have adequate frameworks and that there are no legislation that creates unnecessary constraints in relation to participation in different projects. The lending capacity and willingness of the banks must be put in place. I'm very pleased that the Council of State pointed this out as a major challenge. There is a huge challenge that needs to be solved. But we must not forget to look forward. The crisis we are in now will not be in the infinite. Over 80 pst. trade in goods between continents is carried out on ships. When the growth comes, Norwegian fleet layers must be positioned to take their share. There are growth opportunities in short-sea traffic and in other segments, and Norwegian companies have a unique starting point for further growth in offshore business. The world still needs oil and gas. Norway controls the world's most advanced and second largest fleet of drilling and offshore special ships. But in order for Norway to also be a leading shipping nation in the future, the government must do its job to ensure that the industry is not broken until the crisis is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1137	The interpellant today focuses on a significant industry and industry with long and historical traditions. With modestly one thousand of the world's population and one hundred of the global trade, we have control of nearly one tenth of the world's total trade tonnage. That's good. Major changes in the global pattern of trade and decline in the world economy have already led to smaller orders for the shipbuilding industry and to fewer orders for the shipping companies. In the context of the crisis package, the Left, together with others, proposed a series of targeted measures which are not time to address here. What is important and perhaps important to mention in this context is that there was a proposal for deferred payment of 2008 corporate tax to strengthen the liquidity of business. That is, of course, the liquidity of the shipping companies we are talking about in this case as well. Of course, a payment of that tax weakens equity. We are in a crisis situation, and a crisis situation means that we have to view it as an exceptional state. We will also have to take time-limiting measures, such as: The right concerns this matter. It may seem that the crisis can last longer and become deeper than what you had thought in advance. It's important, regardless of what industry and what business it is, to try to be predictable and in advance, rather than to get behind the situation. I come from a part of the country that is particularly affected by the financial crisis. We've seen jobs disappear in export industries. What is important now is to have a regulation – in addition to tax and tax deferral – that goes on good leave arrangements and opportunities for increased competence on the day of the crisis. However, the situation is not completely dark. There will be a need for a comprehensive upgrade and renewal of the world fleet in the coming years. This will create significant opportunities for increased value creation and employment in Norwegian maritime activities both at sea and on land, not least in the districts of my county, More and Romesdal. What I also hope for – if it is to be a slowdown in the activity in relation to the heated situation we had for a few years ago – is that the technology and the knowledge with which the maritime cluster is sitting is turning towards forward-looking climate technology, and looking at the opportunities for new jobs in renewable energy. It is close to the technology and competence of this industry, and it will be able to be transferred to new and forward-looking jobs that we are sure will come to this very area. Finally, I just want to stress that it is also important for this industry that we have a stable, predictable and positive tax and industrial policy, and that we have a powerful knowledge environment. Then it's not a good idea to cut the TaxFUNN system – it's the wrong medicine. We should also continue to focus on what we can best do, on the development of high-technology and environmentally friendly solutions. It would have been desirable to rotate parts of the activity we have, the expertise and the technology we have, to be able to use more gas by transporting more goods by seaway with environmentally friendly fuel. It is also important in a climate perspective. There are also significant jobs in this area. My and Left conclusions are that we are in a crisis situation with regard to different industries. It's important to be in the front, not to get dramatic in the back. Strengthening the liquidity of shipping companies would be a good incentive for continued high activity in this area during the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1163	Norway has been a significant shipping nation for many generations and is known for its highly skilled seafarers. I'm glad that there's a great commitment to this important industry, but it might look like the perception is somewhat different. The Government shall be commended for taking all aspects of the industry into account in its work, including in these times of financial crisis. The criticism from the opposition to the Government on this issue is mildly lacking in faith. I would say that we cannot maintain our status as a shipping nation if we only have shipowners and not Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. Here, the representative Fleet and Interpellanten clearly have a different opinion from what I have. I'm also amazed that the interpellant doesn't focus more on the seafarers. I did not hear him mention the seafarers with one word in his two posts. I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly speaks the matter of the seafarers in its contribution. I've been following this industry for many years, and I've seen how it's been best prepared for the industry, precisely because it's such an important industry in our country. What disappoints me is that despite this, the shipowners are flagging out. This is often done without warning, and Norwegian seafarers are put on land. At the same time, the same shipowners continue to invest in Norway as a good and attractive customer. The shipowners who then assume their responsibilities and retain the Norwegian flag and Norwegian seafarers with Norwegian wage and working conditions have a difficult competitive situation. I am questioning that companies operating on a Norwegian base do not require Norwegian pay and working conditions to be met by the shipowners to be hired. In these days we have a great debate on new areas of petroleum activity, especially in the north. I travel a lot in the northern part of the country, and often hear strong opinions in this context. What I hear most often is that if there are no Norwegian and local jobs and activities left after the activity on the base, only the oil and the gas can lie there. People don't want to take the disadvantages without getting anything back. This, of course, also applies to seafarers' jobs. No other job is as well spread throughout the country, both in the countryside and in the city, as the seafarers' jobs. I understand that it reacts when such important jobs with a pen stroke and overnight are gone. Then people react along the coast with disbelief and anger. These are strong signals from people along our coast that both the oil companies, the shipowners and the representatives here in Stortinget and many others are going to remember in the time to come. People's opinion is not to be overlooked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1177	I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate. But I have to say that the saying that attack is the best defense was quite easy to resort to, having heard the statements of both the Council of State and several of the representatives. It is obvious that you want to turn this tax action against the shipping companies into another case, namely the net pay scheme. I also mentioned the net pay scheme in my post. There is broad support for the net pay scheme in Norway, but it is clear that this is also a controversial form of tax subsidy. We have recorded that the Government has tightened up the net pay system, which the Right has also proposed in its alternative budgets. Then we see that the Progress Party then lies ahead of the Government in terms of subsidising labour in the maritime cluster. But it's kind of a different debate than what this is all about. For the essence of this, the tax increases from the Government exceed all other measures implemented by the Government towards the maritime cluster. The Stoltenberg II government promised an active industrial policy. They promised a particularly good policy for the maritime business, and what they brought back was a tax boost of DKK 14 billion, an enormous amount of reduced competitiveness for that maritime cluster. It seems to me quite incredible that the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen does not understand that this is very damaging to the maritime cluster's ability to invest and invest in new activity along the coast. So back to the argument. In 2007, there was a central point for the red-green parties that this was an industry with great profits. There was a sharp rise on the stock exchanges, there was a high wage level, and then I can understand that with a superficial look at business policy, allocations were chosen on the basis of a red-green political platform. But now we have the exact opposite situation. Now we have deficits, we have strong falls on the stock exchange, we have companies that are struggling, we're probably getting cancellations, and it goes beyond the activity along the coast. Then there would be some logic in it if the government parties said that OK then it goes in the opposite direction, and we get to turn the policy a little bit if we're going to be active relative to business, try to do a little bit of the opposite. What we have tried in this interpellation debate is to remove some of the issues surrounding the substance in the shipping tax debate and point to a pragmatic approach to how to solve the specific problem, without resuming the entire tax decision that was taken in 2007. Then there is an obvious possibility of deferring the payment of these large amounts of tax. Then the state council, as expected, has not notified it today. But I just want to establish that this is an industry where there will be a development in the future, and I challenge the Council of State to take a closer look at this measure, for example. in relation to or before the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1188	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has stated that we want to bet where we are good, and the industry we're betting on now is an example of an area where we're good in Norway, and where we have a special advantage. That this industry is also reportedly affected by the financial crisis, is known, and that is precisely why we have such close contact with the industry seas all the way. This means that the changes we have made to an already good shipping tax system are after having had a dialogue with – and listened to – the industry. Once we've done what we've done with the bond fund, it's also after the admission from the industry. That's something they needed. When we did what we did in relation to export finance, and made changes so that they could also go into existing schemes, it was also after dialogue and close contact with this industry. I believe that we have a very competitive shipping pricing system, which is international and comparable to what they have in EU countries and in which we have already made improvements. Then I think that this debate has also been interesting in the sense that the speakers from the Right have revealed their views on the net pay system. I heard the representative Fleet say, ‘But it’s not the net pay system that creates the jobs.’ I think it reveals quite well that it may not be what the Right is primarily concerned about, and that is what they also follow up in decisions here in the house. The net pay and reimbursement schemes of seafarers are a decisive instrument for recruiting and retaining Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. It's important. When e.g. a company known to many people, through the media at least, Teekay, announced in February the deflagration of nine Norwegian-registered ships operating on a Norwegian base, many responded. We have also seen other notices from individual shipping companies with similar plans. In this respect, I would like to refer to the work currently being done by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which is about measures to prevent social dumping. They are now working on changes to the foreign regulation that will reintroduce work permits for foreign seafarers. It is announced that the industry will also have to assume that the base will be covered by this. This is important in relation to the great debate we are now having on this whole industry. I have also, interestingly, noticed that Teekay, after the rounds that have been, says that they will retain some ships under the Norwegian flag. Engagement in this important industry is important. For the Government, it is very important to do what we can to ensure the maximum possible jobs and to create new ones in this industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1203	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1209	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1216	In the course of the debate there have been 15 proposals. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4-6, by Mr Kåre Fostervold, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, on the Right and the Left, on proposals Nos. 7-14, by Mr Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 15, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1247	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-14, with the exception of proposal No 11 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1300	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to strengthen the independence of the Competition Authority.’ Here the Right has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1316	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Advance Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1345	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-31.ana.ud1568e1405	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
