ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e74	On 11 and 12 May there was an application from the Advance Party Group for a permit for the representative of Per Ove Width to participate in the marking of the 60th anniversary of NATO in Rome. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. The vara representative, Jan Fredrik Vogt, is called to meet during the leave period. Jan Fredrik Vogt is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at noon. 16 until today's map finishes. - No objections have been raised against the President's proposal, and it is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e110	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 2895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e124	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e135	I would first like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and informative presentation. This type of presentation was the result of the discussion here in the Storting of the Communication on the need for a more active European policy, based on an overall understanding that policy and regulatory design is increasingly taking place in a European framework – not to say the EU framework – which significantly affects Norway, but where Norway also has influence in advance, limited by our self-selected position outside the key decision-making bodies of the EU. Let me spend some time on some reflections from my side in the follow-up to the European message at the end of this big period. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that communication between the Storting and the Government has been strengthened in EU/EEA matters, both through the European Committee and through these presentations. The basis for the dialogue has been improved by providing more information to the representatives, including: before the European Committee meetings. I think, however, that we have managed to involve the professional committees in the ongoing dialogue with the Government, among other things. at the European Committee meetings. But I want to add that there is a greater interest in getting involved and participating in debates. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to the work of more strategic government work and ministries towards the EU. It is natural that the Stortinget prioritises the parliamentary channel. The European Parliament has gained greater influence, and there is a further development that will continue. It's positive. At the same time, it underlines the need for closer contact with the party groups in the European Parliament at an early stage. Issues that demonstrate the importance of contact with the European Parliament regarding the prohibition of cell products and the position on the legal basis of the Arctic. Here, I believe, the party groups, assuming a financial opportunity, can do more, even if several parties, including the Workers' Party, have established and extended contacts with the European Parliament, both at the level of the Group and the Trade Union Committee. We believe that contact can be strengthened by enabling hostitism arrangements in the European Parliament for policy advisers and administrative staff. The Presidency should proceed with the recommendation of the Foreign Affairs Committee to have a person from the Grand Duchy at the level of officials in Brussels with the European Parliament’s work. The latter will strengthen the listening function and assist the party groups with the right contacts at the right times. Work on promoting Norwegian interests may be beneficial in closer cooperation between government and Storting, where it is natural. The financial crisis has presented challenges for the whole of Europe. For some countries it has had dramatic consequences. I am thinking about Iceland, with the fall of the previous government and the election on April 25. The most important thing is that the Icelandics get on their feet financially and Norway contributes where possible. The crisis in Iceland has updated the debate on EU membership, or at least whether Iceland should apply for membership in the first place. What is Norway going to do about it? Perhaps Iceland is applying for membership in a short time, perhaps further ahead? In a letter to the Foreign Affairs Committee during the examination of a proposal for a document, the Government stated that if Iceland decides to apply for membership, it would carry out an assessment of the potential impact on Norway and communicate the assessment to the bodies of the Storting in the most appropriate way. It is a procedure which has broad political support here on the Stortinget. The EEA Agreement is the main foundation of Norway's relationship with the EU. It has worked well, has been robust and adapted to enlargement, and all parties have wanted to maintain the agreement. Until there is any other basis, I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway should work systematically to ensure the functioning and integrity of the EEA Agreement. Then a possible investigation following an Icelandic EU request will provide answers to the impact on Norway and EEA cooperation. I note that one is in the final phase of the negotiations on the EEA financial instruments for 2009–2014. We share the Government's basic view that Norway should continue to contribute to reducing social and economic disparities in the EEA area and develop partnerships and bilateral cooperation with the new EU countries. We also believe Norway has an interest in joining the new Eastern Partnership in the EU, which was launched yesterday, and where Sweden will play a central role. It's e.g. broad interest among political parties in contributing to democratic and social development in Belarus. Norwegian participation also applies to the EU's Baltic Sea Strategy, which, overall within the framework of the Northern Dimension, provides opportunities to map our areas and to give Nordic countries an overall strong commitment. This also includes the development of cooperation with Russia. The challenges we face today, with financial crisis, unemployment, climate change and energy security, require joint action at national, regional and European level. To this end, operational cooperation institutions are needed. Finally, I would therefore like to refer to what the German sociologist Ulrich Beck recently said that if the European Union did not exist: [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e177	The President must ask the representatives to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e180	The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a good statement, to which we have essentially no difficulty in joining. Yesterday's news that the Government of Iceland will ask Everything to send an application for membership of the EU was not unexpected, and it confirms that we can in the future change the conditions for the Norwegian EU association. However, it is uncertain whether any Icelandic membership will have the major impact on the position here at home of a Norwegian membership. Many suggest that the large Icelandic vacuum will be absent, but there will be challenges if Iceland goes all the way into the EU, which is otherwise far from safe. What is and must be the operational challenges for the Government is that there is broad support for the current form of association: the EEA. The government's task is to ensure that Norway is positioned, so that we ensure the continuation of EEA cooperation, possibly without Iceland. This will mean adjustments to the EEA Agreement. It gives us challenges, but also opportunities. These options need to be identified and actively sought incorporated into any adjustment negotiations. The Progress Party has long considered that the time has been ripe to see whether the EEA Agreement should be upgraded at least in relation to the legal changes that have taken place in the EU. With regard to membership of the EEA/EFTA, some of Europe's smaller countries have suggested that they can imagine joining our small exclusive club. Here the Government must also take a position, not least because this may affect the institutional framework of a continued EEA Agreement. It is also necessary to take account of any Icelandic membership and the future of today’s EEA Agreement into account in ongoing agreements – which are now probably approaching the final phase – around the funding mechanism and other conditions. We will stress that we support the Government's overall positions in relation to the EEA funding mechanism. We could probably have had an in-depth discussion on priority actions in the beneficiary countries, but we take note of the government's priorities and are concerned that we are constantly seeking to include Norwegian partners in actions that we will be supporting in the future. In particular, we are pleased that the Government so clearly stresses that our financial contribution must be seen in the context of a satisfactory outcome in the ongoing discussions on market access for fish. This is an important clarification. Norway has experienced a few demanding cases in the European Parliament in the last few months. This is again underlined by the important role of the European Parliament in the EU. Now there's no new recognition, but in matters like the company case and the Arctic Treaty case, it becomes very clear. While a majority in a normal national parliament is usually somewhat in line with the national government, there is no similar relationship between the European Parliament and the European Commission. This gives uncertainty about what will result in different cases, and it presents other challenges in terms of impact. So while Norway appears to have achieved an acceptable result and a reasonable understanding of Norwegian interests in an active dialogue with the Commission, all the good work can prove to be meaningless in meeting a self-conscious and sometimes activistic European Parliament. The experience with the sales case must be used to analyse what we can do better next time Norwegian interests are challenged. In my view, it is not impossible to arrive at rational arguments in the European Parliament, but it requires work, and it probably requires a different type of work than the Norwegian diplomats normally do, and not least it requires a willingness to think differently from the Government, and for example. are interested in involving other actors, such as Stortinget, in the impact. It is not the case that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Stortinget are not very good at fighting for Norwegian interests in other contexts. Right now there is a well-planned and well-functioning election campaign in order for Norway to have the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Little is left to chance. Nice! And hopefully our efforts succeed, and all the parties on the Stortinge support this work. So if any of the eagerness and strategic planning were transferred to e.g. the salesman, so maybe the votering result could look something different. Because even though the Norwegian positions were never so good, the whole work towards the European Parliament became defective, as we see it, and not carried out with the intensity that might have been required. To those who believe that the answer is that we must join the European Union, I would say that we must constantly take care of Norwegian interests, regardless of the form of association. Retiring back and pointing out that everything would have been so much better if we had been inside is not a constructive contribution to solving challenges that lie ahead of us every day. But it is not that even if we were to become a member, the need to fight for Norwegian interests disappears – they will always be there, but the fight will partly take place within new frameworks. Taking Norwegian interests into account in the EU as well as elsewhere is a major challenge, and as far as the EU is concerned, almost all departments are affected, and cooperation is very broad. The optimal coordination between departments also needs attention, and once again the company can be an example of how to gain experience. Is there a need for another way of organising this in the future that makes us more effective as a nation, and that we ensure that our interests are included in all relevant conversations? Here we could also imagine whether it would be useful in the EEA Committee to meet more, more often, at political level, and actively use this meeting place for more than we do today, based on experience that securing Norwegian interests requires a political presence in the EU. We have contractual meeting places. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we use these optimally. Now I'm very far inside what must be the government's own assessments, but it's not that the opposition is not interested in Norway getting the most through – on the contrary. We have largely conflicting interests, and if we are to succeed in relation to the EU, is a broad national anchoring a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e203	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and interesting presentation. As the head of the evening post pointed out yesterday, there was a statement that many more could have benefited from it, because it gave a good insight into our proximity to and dependence on Europe. The financial crisis has left its mark on the whole of Europe. Of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the right to have European countries affected differently. However, it is important to bear in mind the importance of the EU in fact for the fact that the crisis response in Europe has so far been adapted to the European market and is not unilaterally national of the kind that led to protectionism and unilateral devaluations in the past. In particular, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is pleased to point out the importance of Norwegian gas for Europe’s energy security. The gas crisis that occurred in Central Europe following Russia’s halt to supply to Ukraine clearly demonstrates why energy security is now so high in the EU. The EU extraordinary Energy Ministerial meeting on 12 January pointed out that energy security could be strengthened through a closer relationship with other EU energy suppliers, such as Norway. Another issue that makes Norwegian gas important is the desire for cleaner energy in Europe. Norwegian oil and gas production is the most CO2 efficient in the world, thanks to a number of measures and requirements for operators on Norwegian soil. The emissions from oil and gas production in the Middle East are more than 1.5 times as high per year. the energy unit such as the emissions on the Norwegian base, and from Russia the emissions are 2.5 times higher. In addition, Norwegian oil and gas activities are part of the European greenhouse gas allowance trading system. For sectors that are part of the trading system, the EU quota ceiling is set, i.e.: the number of available allowances, determining the total emissions. If emissions from Norwegian oil and gas activities increase, the corresponding reductions in activities in other sectors or countries covered by the allowance system will be compensated precisely. The net increase in emissions from oil and gas extraction on the cap will therefore be zero. Almost all Norwegian gas is exported to the rest of Europe. It makes an important contribution to reducing – not increasing – Europe’s greenhouse gas emissions by reducing the use of coal. There is therefore a need for more – no less – Norwegian gas to Europe, and we agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway must continue to be a ‘stable, long-term and predictable energy supplier’, as he said in his statement on Tuesday. From this perspective, it is strange that the government partners of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, SV and the Central Party, so eager to protect larger areas of Norwegian soil for oil and gas extraction. Now that the ageing period is approaching the end and we have just heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs give his last EU/EEA statement – at least during this period – it may be natural to try to establish the status of the Government's active European policy. The right is very concerned about fulfilling our obligations and our opportunities for influence through the EEA Agreement in a good way. As a result, we took a very active part in the EEA Single Market Communication presented in 2006. During the period, the size has strengthened its work on EU affairs, but I think I disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his unfavorable evaluation of the implementation of all the measures envisaged. Let me do a couple of examples. The EEA note base has been widely referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it still works far from optimal. The Stockholm International Secretariat and the Stortingsbibliote have demonstrated that matters and directives disappear from the database just before they are to be discussed in the Stortinget or in connection with the media review. Things are missing from the database, and the information is often not up-to-date. It makes it difficult to follow cases and more difficult to contribute to the influence of EU bodies, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs calls on policymakers to do. From our point of view at Stortinget, it still seems that the Government is regularly surprised by important issues from the EU system. The proposal for a consumer directive, as mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the recently adopted Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive, are examples. In this way, when we get into the process late, our ability to influence dramatically, because the European Commission, where we can participate formally through working groups, is often already done with its proposals. The growing influence of the European Parliament has been repeated in these debates and in the meetings of the European Parliament Committee of the European Parliament. Nevertheless, we are constantly seeing the Government depriving its contact with the European Parliament, in a way that obviously harms Norwegian interests in key EEA matters. The EU ban on trade in cell products, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority of the European Parliament this week, is a clear example of this. In this case as well as in the discussion on the Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive, criticism from the opposition has been met with invitations to the involvement of policymakers. We would like to do that, and the Right has made several contacts with our party group in the European Parliament, which is currently Parliament's largest. However, this presupposes that we receive concrete information about Norwegian interests and the arguments used by the Government. As far as we've got it, it's too late. The government’s European policy strategy is in many ways an expression of a truce in the Norwegian EU debate. That's understandable. However, as we have done many times in this Chamber, the right will point out that this truce must not blind us to developments in our relationship with the European Union that give cause for concern. The Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke in so far as the negotiations on the EEA financial instruments, which are now overtime, were referred to as ‘complicated’. He has mentioned in the European Committee on Programmes and Institute Management through the EEA we want to participate in, but where it is now more difficult to hear about the participation of EEA countries as observers. The development of Iceland is probably an example. Yesterday, Iceland's Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir confirmed that the Government of Iceland will ask Everything to decide on an EU application. This updates the Norwegian EU debate. The right does not believe that Iceland’s choice in itself is crucial for Norway, but we are concerned about how robust and forward-looking the EEA Agreement would be if Iceland were actually to enter the EU. The Government must urgently assess the impact on the EEA Agreement and fisheries and report back to the Storting. This is a matter that requires broad debate. The trends are quite unambiguous when we just dare to see them together and draw conclusions. The EU is becoming more important for Norway – and it is becoming more and more important for Norway. Norway and Norwegian interests are becoming less and less aware and effective in EU bodies. We can't close our eyes to this fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e240	I would like to thank you for a very thorough presentation. Our red-green government has done a lot to take care of Norwegian interests in a more offensive way towards the EU. The two most important measures were to address the issue of a differentiated employer’s fee and the right to return. Had the Government given up, it would undermine the ability to pursue offensive district policies and to preserve the power of the feet in public ownership. The Minister of Foreign Affairs now announces that he is working to maintain consumer rights under Norwegian law. That's good, and that's important. The EU proposal for a consumer directive means total harmonisation in accordance with minimum requirements and deprives Norway of the possibility of protecting consumers at the level that Norwegian authorities consider appropriate. Therefore, it is important to seek alliances and support the forces in the EU that have an ambitious consumer policy. The government has taken action to increase transparency and dialogue and public debate on European issues. The size has done the same thing. SV believes that it is important now to have a thorough debate on the EEA Agreement as well. We therefore agree with No to the EU on a research-based overall review of the EEA Agreement. We believe it is important to gain knowledge of the benefits and disadvantages of the agreement for Norwegian society, of the dynamic nature and consequences of the agreement, of the right of reservation, of the ESA and of the position/activities of the EFTA Court and of the alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to the economic and unemployment forecasts of the European Commission. It's dramatic when 11 pst is expected. average unemployment – and 20 pst. in a country such as Spain. Increased political and social unrest is expected. 14th to 16th. May is a professional day of action in EU countries. Firstly, it is a protest against the EU's financial crisis management. The EU recommends increasing privatisation, reducing public pensions and wage reductions in the public sector. Unlike Norway, eurozone countries have no freedom to determine their own interest rates and less freedom to pursue short-term policies. Secondly, it is a protest against the four judges of the European Court of Justice who, in a situation where the trade union movement is on the defensive and the basis of professional rights, which is one of the cornerstones of democracy, are severely weakened. There is also concern about proposals that lead to less political governance and greater deregulation. Therefore, SV wants a debate on the incorporation of the Postal Directive and the Health Directive and warns against its implementation. Yes-page puts its trust in an Icelandic EU application, but, as others have said, it hardly leads to an Icelandic sucker. But there's probably a long way to Icelandic membership. Firstly, the Icelanders must vote through a referendum and a choice of everything. Secondly, the negotiations must ensure that Icelanders are exempted from the common fisheries policy. At best, it'll be a long way inside. Thirdly, the hope that the euro as a currency will be able to save the Icelanders from a tough transition, ending in broken dreams. Together with the EU, Norway has high ambitions on the road to Copenhagen and high ambitions for increased renewable energy. We have large renewable energy reserves in Norway, not least in sea power, and it is the individual country that can contribute most to achieving ambitious targets for the EU and Norway. The call will be for us to go ahead of the EU and prepare to implement the directive as quickly as possible. A large-scale commitment to new renewable energy will form the basis for new, environmentally friendly industrial development in Norway. In the future, Norway will have a high potential for exports of clean energy and energy-intensive products produced with clean energy. In contrast to the Right's view, it requires that this is where we put it, that we do not bet on a further high level of oil extraction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e257	One of the more troubling features of this debate we heard right now when, in the absence of results from our own policies on new renewable efforts in Norway, SV is now putting great trust in the expected EU directive. It says a lot about government policy in this area, and not least its results. My concern today is to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good presentation on EU and EEA matters. First of all, I would like to commend the Minister for his sober presentation of the situation in Iceland. Yesterday, the announcement came that the Icelandic Government will ask Everything to decide whether Iceland should submit an EU application. Iceland's banking crisis is the largest, relative to the country's economy, which some country has ever experienced, according to the IMF. At mid-2008, Icelandic banks had raised a debt almost ten times greater than the value of their annual goods and services production, according to the OECD. The country's going to have a hard time paying off this debt for many years. It is not surprising that many Icelanders look towards the EU and the euro at such a time. At the same time, it is still highly uncertain whether Iceland will become a member. I think negotiations, if they are started, will be tough, not least in terms of fisheries. The fishing industry in Iceland is well known against Icelandic EU membership. The industry does not want to weaken control of its own fishing resources and submit to the common fisheries policy of the EU, which I understand very much in view of the fact that the EU fisheries policy has given almost empty seas and one of the world's least profitable fishing industries. There is also reason to recall that even though polls on Iceland showed a majority for membership before Christmas, the measurements have now turned to a majority. This may be due to the fact that the EU can help Iceland with its main problem of debt. The euro can only be introduced after Iceland has met the Maastricht criteria. These criteria include, inter alia: Iceland's inflation, interest rate, budget deficit and debt must be at a relatively low level. Last but not least, over a period of two years, the Icelandic krona must have a price trend close to that of the euro. This is, to put it mildly, not easy when you're in the middle of a historical deep economic crisis. Secondly, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the good and factual presentation of possible consequences for Norway and the EEA Agreement if Iceland were to become an EU member. The EEA Agreement is dynamic and related to changes. That's what it's shown through its history. Although some institutional conditions will have to change, the agreement will be as stable as it is now, even without Iceland. The agreement is already primarily an agreement between Norway and the EU today if we look at trade flows and the contributions to the EEA financial instruments. Thirdly, I would like to give my foreign minister full support on the meaning of the EEA Agreement. Here is the Minister of Foreign Affairs for very safe reasons. All the parties that have been in government for the last eight years have signed the EEA Agreement serving Norway well. We have heard Mr. Höglund's posts here today, where he signs the same one. For this reason, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the whole of the Stortinget back in that assessment of the EEA Agreement so far. What I want to make clear is that he has a Christian People's Party fully in his back for a tough course in the EEA at this time, which can become a bit more turbulent. The Christian People's Party, like the majority of the Norwegian people, is a member of the EEA Agreement because it guarantees Norwegian companies market access to our second most important export market, the internal market. This is important for value creation, well-being and jobs throughout the country. There is nothing at all about any Icelandic membership request that might be a factor in this. Therefore, those interested in taking care of the broad Norwegian interests should refrain from jeopardising the EEA Agreement for a troubled time in the world. I am also pleased that the European Commission, in line with the Government's recent insurance policies in Stortinget, expressed support for Norway's declaration on the Services Directive on professional rights. The government's assurances, which were given from Stortingen's pulpit, turned out to be a dead end. I also give tribute for that today. I would like to say that the representative, Mr Höglund, has today raised very important issues regarding the focus of the overall Norwegian environment on parliamentary influence, both in the EU and between Norway and the EU. It should be angry both with the Storting and the Government. Parliamentarians can be an important force in foreign policy influence. We have the discipline that when we act outside the borders of the country, we act in the pact with broad Norwegian interests, and I think we can need that in the future within the EU. I believe that the Stortinget should also reconsider the issue of a permanent representation in Brussels. Let me conclude by saying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs can expect strong support for the defence of the EEA Agreement from the Christian People's Party, and we expect the same from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e280	Let me also thank the Foreign Minister for a useful and thorough presentation. There are different views of the EEA Agreement in Stortinget. Some believe that the EEA Agreement is glittering. Some believe that the EEA Agreement is the best of poor alternatives, and some are strongly critical of the agreement. In fact, the agreement is a minimum common multiple in Stortinget and it has existed for 15 years. The Centre Party shall support those who call for a full review of the Agreement. There will be nothing in the vicinity of jeopardising the EEA Agreement. It will be about getting a thorough review of professionals. All believe that Norway is dependent on having an agreed relationship with the EU. There are important issues that should be reviewed. The EEA Agreement is dynamic. How has the dynamism of the agreement worked? Has the agreement become what we actually thought 15 years ago that it would be? There is a reservation right in the contract. It's not used. Is it really that we think it can't be used? What do professionals think about it? What do national guarantees given in different areas mean, late in the service directive? These are just a few examples of matters that it would be wise for us to be informed after 15 years of this agreement. Environment and energy are two sides of the same coin. We do not solve the environmental challenges without solving the energy challenges and vice versa. To save the environment, as a global society, we need to move from the fossil age to the renewable. The EU has set itself bold environmental policy objectives in its 20-20-20 objectives. They're demanding to reach. Norway has natural prerequisites for becoming a significant exporter of clean and renewable energy, and we can assist the EU in achieving its renewable objectives by building up offshore wind power with our manageable hydropower. This is how we will be able to offer the continent a stable, renewable energy product. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is about this in his presentation, and that's good. Now a new Commission is going to be in place in the EU. There must be elections in Norway. In our opinion, it is urgent to engage in concrete dialogue with the EU on how to develop cooperation on the development of renewable energy. Climate challenges are increasing day by day. The development of energy production takes a long time. That's why it's urgent. With the same starting point, the Centre Party is committed to Norway implementing the renewable directive as quickly as possible. Norway is seagoing in a unique situation and is above the EU average in terms of renewable energy, but there is no reason for us not to assume increased obligations, rather it will send out very wrong signals if we did not want to assume the commitments contained in the renewable directive. We are concerned that discussions with the EU about the implementation of the Directive do not imply that Norway should negotiate commitments. It will be unwise environmental policy. This would be unwise in relation to the opportunities in Norway for job creation in this area, and it would be unwise in a perspective where we want to develop Norway to become a major exporter of renewable energy. So all the way to Iceland. Yes, it indicates that Iceland is going to apply for membership. It remains to be seen whether they become members. I note that some people say that any Icelandic membership will have a major impact on the EEA Agreement. I am not sure of that, and that is quite simply because yes, the EU is important to Norway, but Norway is also important to the EU. I think it is important to ask the control question: why would the EU want to create a problem for the EEA Agreement? [[The President clubs]] I don't think they do. We may have to make small changes, but I expect the EEA Agreement to be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e301	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e304	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and interesting presentation. I also find it reassuring to hear that he sees it as a clear responsibility for the Government to work systematically to ensure the functioning and integrity of the EEA Agreement. He stated that the crisis in Iceland had so far not affected the functioning of the EEA Agreement. However, we should not ignore the fact that an Icelandic EU application launches a dynamic that ends up putting the EEA Agreement, as we know it, into play. I therefore believe that we need to put all our efforts into fulfilling the EEA Agreement. 15 years of experience have shown that the agreement meets its main objective of ensuring predictable and equivalent framework conditions for Norwegian business in the EU internal market. As of today, we have no other realistic alternatives to the EEA Agreement. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that the Government would make a thorough assessment of the possible consequences for Norway if Iceland decided to apply for EU membership. I assume that he has already put his large investigative apparatus on standby for this. As the EEA Agreement is of great importance to Norway, it would not have been irresponsible to have already started to think through all possible consequences of this possible Icelandic EU application. As part of this work, I would like to see a public investigation into the content and functioning of the EEA Agreement. This can contribute to an important debate in Norway. However, I am somewhat sceptical about the main focus of such an investigation on alternatives to the EEA, if it is intended to weaken the EEA Agreement. This suggests that opponents of the EEA internal to the Government want to use this precisely to weaken the agreement. To that end, I would like to say that I read the foreign minister's assurance that the government is conscious of its responsibility, so that he will keep any opponents of the EEA Agreement in the government in check. In that case, he can count on full support from the Left. Several controversial directives are currently under consideration. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal for a Directive on consumer rights. I think it would be very unfortunate for Norway if consumer law in the EU went from minimum regulation to full harmonisation. This could mean that we cannot maintain more stringent consumer protection in Norway than in the EU. It was therefore reassuring to hear that the Foreign Minister actively wants to influence the Consumer Directive in the right direction. He argued that the Government would use all available channels to amend the proposed directive. With regard to other current proposals for directives, these were not much commented on. This applies in particular to the Data Storage Directive. It is here nearby to interpret this as an expression that there may be a difficult matter within the Government. The left's position on the Data Storage Directive is crystal clear: we are against it. We will work to prevent it from becoming part of Norwegian law and, if necessary, use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. However, if the Directive is implemented in Norway against the expressed will of the Left, we want to limit the scope of data retention to a maximum of 6 months. We have made proposals on this in Stortinget several times, but so far we have not been able to record any support from the government parties. It is positive that the EU has undertaken to take on an international leadership role in the field of climate and energy. This makes the EU a valuable partner for Norway, a partner that we will try to make even more ambitious. Norway’s high share of hydropower, as correctly pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, should not become a sleeping pad. On the contrary, I believe that Norway has to go heavily into the promotion of renewable energy. Therefore, in its negotiations with the Commission on adaptations to the Directive, the Government must not undermine the requirements of the Directive. Norway has strong natural conditions for renewable energy production — in fact, some of the best in Europe. These are opportunities we need to use to address climate challenges and contribute to new jobs and businesses. In the run-up to the Copenhagen climate summit in December, I believe it will be particularly important to emphasise this precisely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e322	It is true that this is the latest statement on the EU and European affairs during this period. When I come back with my next statement to the autumn, it is natural to mention the progress of Iceland's possible membership ambitions and the consequences it will have for Norway and the EEA Agreement. As we have had a debate on this matter in the past, it is natural that, in the event of an application, we go through those consequences in a tidy way. I would then put my large investigative apparatus at the disposal of that task. As far as the EEA Agreement is concerned, I share the opinion of the representative Larsen that it would be natural to have a review of that agreement during the next major period, precisely because it has existed for 15 years, in changing times. It has proved unmistakably robust, adaptable, not only how the agreement itself has developed, but also how the agreement has been a reference point for developing cooperation with the EU in other areas, inspired by part of the solutions of the EEA Agreement: Schengen cooperation, foreign and security policy, defence, environment, coastal issues, maritime policy, etc. I agree with the representative that it should not be a review for alternatives to the EEA Agreement, but on knowledge of this agreement. For some it's not exactly a love child, but if someone sees it like this, it's actually the foreign minister. It is the way with this foreign minister that I feel that I was a part of the delivery service when the agreement came, in a different position. But I believe that it is the responsibility of the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs at all times to work hard and purposefully to take good care of this agreement. In today’s situation, Norwegian jobs are guaranteed. Every day, when Norwegian men and women go to work, companies know that they have similar rules of play. It's a very important confession. That you don't think about asking questions about whether this is the case is in itself a great value. The agreement has contributed to this. Then the relationship with the European Parliament was brought up. When it is said from the right that the Government has deprived the relationship with the European Parliament, I will take a strong distance from it. The question is whether we are able to update it sufficiently and precisely enough, because it is a demanding body to work against. I would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for comments on the work of obtaining a Norwegian Secretary-General in the Council of Europe. That work is good and strategic. Let's hope that leads to that. We can learn from it in many ways. I don't think the sales case would have a significant other outcome. There I am more of the opinion that full membership, with full participation in the European Parliament, could safeguard Norway's interests in a way other than exclusion. It is worth noting that Denmark, which is just as opposed to this directive as we are, has secured a reference to catch for inuiters in the directive, thus demonstrating that the internal adjustments that are possible to safeguard the very central interests of a Member State can be achieved. But we'll take that with us. It's a cost. We're not going to accept that it's given that it is. We must work to safeguard Norwegian interests. What was said that the database is not up-to-date, I take as a feedback from an important user. Of course, we should consider that the database is as good as possible at all times. It's true that I've talked about this on several occasions. It is an important instrument for us, and we must ensure that it is as good as possible for all users. If there is one element that I believe today is a threat to the EEA Agreement, it is the negotiations on the EEA financial instruments. They're in a final phase. We're going to land those negotiations, I hope, in a good way. Here it is important to send a very clear signal to the EU that indecent and unfriendly demands for Norway on the funding side will meet a limit. Indeed, it cannot be that at any meeting with the EU to update and continue the arrangements that Norway is making on a voluntary, not legal, but political level, should be a form of ‘heaven is the goal’, in the form of upgrading what we are going to pay. It is not unreasonable for Norway to participate. We're going to participate. We're doing it at a very high level. We are now discussing the final determination. But if those demands take unfair proportions, it's very unfortunate for the cooperation and respect between the parties. To Iceland, I think Norway should say good luck, as a respectful neighbouring country. That's right, as they say, there's a lot of cuts in this lake. It has to be searched. It should be negotiated, and there should be elections to Everything and referendum on the road. It matters to Norway. There is no need to mention an Icelandic sucker, but there is no need to downplay the fact that a new Nordic country can become a member of the Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e343	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e346	As for what happens to the autumn and the next presentation, we can either agree that the Foreign Minister may well be present here to debate the matter. For my part, the representative, Højbrätten, said that we should not now jeopardise the EEA Agreement and do anything that could put it at risk. That's exactly where we agree. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed this very well in his statement. Is there any of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has heard here today, or is generally aware of from the Norwegian debate, which is a danger to the EEA Agreement? Is there anything the Foreign Minister thinks we need to be careful about debating or dealing with the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e355	I can confirm that I will stand here and answer questions from the representative, Mr Höglund, also at the next debate. I look forward to it, because the questions are usually good. No, in line with what has been my position on foreign policy debates in general, I cannot see today that there is such a danger. We must have a high threshold for debate. The EEA Agreement is the most comprehensive international agreement Norway has ever concluded. It covers all disciplines, all departments, all parts of society, not least Municipality-Norway. One of the challenges I've seen and worked a lot with is to involve municipalities in the debate on the EEA Agreement, because it's those that meet this daily in many decisions. I can't stand here and say I see it. I would like to believe that there is a high threshold for debate, but I do not think that there is any doubt today about the EEA Agreement's activities by pointing out that there are better alternatives. I do not see that, even though I am of those who believe that membership better takes care of Norwegian interests. It must also be allowed to discuss in a democratic change of words where we have to follow up on a Europe that is changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e362	Icelandic membership may have implications for the EEA Agreement. Some experts say that the EEA Agreement cannot survive in its present form because the monitoring body loses its credibility when, in practice, only Norway takes care of itself. Icelandic membership may have a negative impact on Norwegian fishermen and fish producers because Icelandic fishery products by EU membership will have better market access than Norwegian products do. The fishing industry is also concerned about negotiating with an island that has the whole EU in its back. It seems that the government has a good time on these questions. I don't know if I can get a comment on the time aspect. Do we have time, or can this happen quickly? Do we have time to wait for an impact assessment on what an Icelandic membership has to mean for Norwegian interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e371	I believe that the EEA Agreement can survive today in terms of its material content. It was concluded with Sweden, Finland and Austria on the team, and Switzerland was also involved in the negotiations. Now there are only three countries left. It is not an agreement that is dated from how many countries are involved. The challenges in the institutional field that may arise if Iceland joins and leaves the EFTA pillar – well, they will be discussed peacefully with the Commission, but I agree with those who have said here today, including the representative Haga, that there is an agreement that has been concluded because both parties have an interest in it, and I assume that it will continue. In the case of interests of Norwegian fishermen and fish producers — well, they may be analysed. I would like to remind you that we have concluded an agreement with the EU on the regulation of all stocks now. With herring it was in place. There are two parties negotiating. I find it difficult to say today that an Icelandic membership is going to affect Norwegian fishermen, but it is clear that there may be a situation where an important competitor gets lower rates of customs duties. But now Europe's demand for fresh fish and non-processed products has been particularly high, so it needs to be assessed in more detail, which I assume that industry organisations will be actively involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e380	First, a reminder to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then not a reminder that there is a choice between now and the next time we have an EEA statement – it is probably the Foreign Minister fully aware of – but a reminder that there is actually someone in this room who has love for the EEA Agreement. The Christian People's Party has the EEA Agreement as its primary position and not as a poor reserve solution. That is precisely why I listened with great attention to what the foreign minister said about the review of the EEA Agreement in the next period. I understood that the Minister for Foreign Affairs felt that there was also a need in the next period to review the experience with the EEA Agreement, as has been done in the previous two major periods, that it is this type of review to have, and not an investigation of alternative solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e387	I think we share both love and closeness in terms of this agreement. It's good to have someone to share love with. It is correct that this is how I assess the matter. What the majority of the population and the government will think in the next period about the need for a review must be looked at then, but I think that such a comprehensive agreement, which is so important for so many sectors, will only serve for information purposes that we have a review and evaluate experience. It will also be, from my perspective, if I am still responsible, to naturally review the debate we had on the forms of work, which we initiated in 2006 with the paper on the forms of work, against how we manage the EEA Agreement. So I think that's natural. So there is no question about the existence of the contract. If there are questions about choice of roads, there must be a completely different basis, following entirely different decisions in this Chamber. But, as it is up to us to maintain all the agreements, we should have a reasonable review of them to see that they work as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e396	First, thank you for a positive response to this with a thorough review of the EEA Agreement, preferably a public investigation. I mentioned in my post that the Left is clearly opposed to the Data Storage Directive, and that we want to work to prevent it from becoming part of Norwegian law, if necessary use the reservation right in the EEA Agreement. However, if the directive is now implemented in Norway, contrary to the expressed will of the Left, we want to limit the scope of data retention to a maximum of six months. We have, as mentioned, promoted this proposal in Stortinget several times. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on this, and to clarify his view of the data storage directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e403	We have this for review and assessment, so the government's final summary of it I can't give now. I just want to say, as a starting point, about the critical comments on the directive, which I think it is justified to put forward: it is therefore a decision taken by 27 neighbouring countries, so I believe that this responds to contemporary data security challenges. It's not a fancy from a country that thinks completely different from us. But we're going to review it critically. It is ongoing by the competent authorities. And then we're going to conclude with that in the case of Norwegian vision. Should the directive be adopted, I agree with Mr Larsen's representative. Then we have to follow the directive, namely that the directive leaves it to the states to implement it, based on their own legislation, rules, etc., and see if there is any reason to make adjustments to what is Norwegian reality. But, as I said, the conclusion on how we are going to deal with this directive will be drawn once we have been thoroughly investigated. So important is that it deserves a thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e410	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e414	The government promised a more active European policy, and it has delivered it. Every time EU countries have extended cooperation to new areas over the 15 years of existence of the EEA Agreement, Norway has wanted to participate and the wish has been fulfilled. This dynamic development in our integration into EU cooperation has been reinvigorated during this period. We have expanded our participation in EU cooperation programmes, and we have joined several new agencies. Our participation in Schengen cooperation has increased, with the Prüm agreement as the last grant. The same has happened in EU foreign, security and military cooperation. The Secretary of State’s statement warns of the continuation of this policy. We have asked for participation in the EU's Eastern Partnership, which is being launched today, where, among other things, the participating countries. are Ukraine, Armenia and Georgia. The government wants us to be associated with the EU's planned asylum office and would like to be involved in the EU Member States' policy design on asylum practices and guidelines. It is desirable to involve the EU more closely in the cooperation of the Arctic Council, but it is seen with concern at the wishes of the European Parliament for a separate Arctic Treaty. This concern is, like the unfortunate decision to ban the sale of cell products, a reminder of how we weaken our ability to take care of Norwegian interests because we are not represented in the parliamentary body that has a stronger and stronger influence on policy-making in the internal market. Lobbies are not going to be equally effective. Yesterday there was confirmation that Iceland is going to apply for EU membership. The future of the EFTA and EEA agreements is therefore also on the agenda. The Faroe Islands wish to join EFTA. Andorra has examined the possibilities of joining the internal market through the EEA Agreement. In one to two years, we are probably in a situation where we only have one or two principalities as partners on the EFTA side in the EEA, if not also the Principalities of San Marino and Monaco will see the EEA as a tool to come under the rules of the internal market. Several partners on the EFTA side in the EEA may be pleasant, but we must not forget that agreement on the EFTA side is required for the implementation of new legislation. It may be a challenge for Norway to ensure consensus with small countries that have quite different interests and challenges from those we have. We lost one year when it came under the EU ETS, because Iceland did not share our desire to implement this through the EEA Agreement. Such issues may become more common if we have to agree with two, three or four European principalities in a few years' time. It is not certain that the work currently being done to integrate parts of the EU's climate and energy package into the EEA Agreement would be easier if we also agreed on the adaptations we want, with Andorra and Monaco. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the Government will ‘ conduct a thorough assessment of the possible consequences for Norway’ when Iceland applies for membership. This assessment must also include the implications of the possibility that the EEA could become a form of association for European Principalities. The dynamic development of Norway’s integration into EU cooperation in the last 15 years, despite our refusal to join in 1994, has been a product of a kind of silent cross-political agreement in Norwegian policy. Therefore, there has been little attention to this in the public vocabulary. Instead, the EU battle has been kept alive through the debate on a few of the many thousands of laws and regulations we have imported unchanged from Brussels. I think that we are wise to start a dialogue with the Norwegian people on the realities behind our extensive integration into EU cooperation and the challenges we have to face in a short time in terms of today's EEA agreement, and perhaps also the EFTA cooperation. It is simply not certain that it will be possible to achieve what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said was the responsibility of the Government, namely ‘to ensure the functioning and integrity of the EEA Agreement’, which we have heard in the debate that there is a broad desire for us to succeed. But it's not safe to succeed. The question we have to ask is this: how can we best take care of Norwegian interests in the broad and deep cooperation that is really a cross-political desire to have with the EU? The representative, Morten Höglund, said in his statement that the task is to safeguard our interests, regardless of the form of association with the EU. I do not believe that the representative, Mr Höglund, is in any doubt as to which form of association provides the greatest basis for safeguarding our interests. We saw in the sales case in the European Parliament that it was demanding to do so as lobbyists. I think we would have done better as members.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e435	In its full presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs focused on the crisis in the world economy and argued that this challenged the EU as an organisation. He further stated that there was little doubt that the EU had contributed to coordination and that EU legislation had slowed down protectionist temptations. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in these considerations, and also share his view that there are clear limits to what can be expected from EU cooperation, since important parts of the Member States' fiscal and economic policies are the responsibility of the national states. The financial crisis affects the EU/EEA countries differently, and there are, of course, differences in interests between countries. It is often at difficult times to discover who is closest to himself, and we have therefore seen various attempts from member countries that position themselves and their national interests. It has therefore been challenging to make the Member States step up and move in the same direction, but it has been largely successful in pursuing a comprehensive policy to counter the financial crisis. Without going into any debate today on our form of EU cooperation, it is challenging for Norway as a non-member to make its voice heard in different contexts. I would therefore like to stress that the Government must have a strong spotlight on these challenges and use both formal and informal channels to influence the development of our input. In this connection, I would also like to refer to the debate we have had in Stortingen on how, in today's form of association, we can get involved at the earliest opportunity with matters also at the parliamentary level. One of the obvious consequences of the financial crisis is the collapse of the Icelandic economy, with subsequent political crisis and new elections of parliamentarians. An application for EU membership from Iceland, which was updated yesterday, may have an impact on EEA cooperation, and I am therefore pleased that the Government will make a thorough assessment of its potential impact on Norway. So to my old trade, energy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that the issue of energy security has now become even more important in European policy. The gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine has led to a far greater focus on energy and security of supply in the EU. The EU Summit in March took a decision to strengthen Europe’s energy infrastructure, which includes both electricity and gas supply systems. Norway is a significant supplier of energy to the EU. We have large and growing gas exports to the European market, and we are perceived as a stable and serious supplier of energy. From the Norwegian side, we need to see the opportunities ahead of us, use the goodwill we have accumulated over many years, and take into account even greater shares of the European energy market. This means that we must not only invest in gas in pipelines to Europe, but also ensure that our ambitions to become large in the LNG market must be realized quickly. We are committed to the Government's objective of contributing to the most stable gas market in Europe, and that this can best be achieved in close and clear dialogue between suppliers and customers. We have also noted the government's rhetoric about the investment in renewable energy. It is stated that our high share of renewable energy means that we have fewer opportunities for conversion than other countries, and continues: ‘At the same time, our natural assumptions for the production of new renewable energy are present’. Further: ‘We still have opportunities to develop hydropower.’ I think this was alarming and would ask the Foreign Minister to explain whether the Government has now turned 180 degrees and again will support hydropower development, after fighting against this for a number of years and claiming that the time for hydropower expansion in Norway was over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e460	It is not difficult to agree that there is much to be pleased about in Europe. If the EEA is one of them, we can discuss it, and that's why we have the debate today. During the confirmation period, you use a new course, find out, wonder: Is this the right course? One will find the good choices. So I very much welcome what the Foreign Minister says, that in the next round we should get a full review of the EEA Agreement. Of course, it should also include the provision of alternatives. There may be other countries to look at, with trade agreements — there may be good alternatives to the EEA Agreement. With a full review of the options on the table, we will have an even better debate. What we are discussing here is, of course, the degree of supranationality, and the most important thing: how much popular government it is inside of supranationality. There's talk about Iceland, there's talk about sucking here and sucking there. The most important thing is, in fact, what is new in relation to the degree of popular government in what is of supranationality. The world is governed by conventions and resolutions. We know that the Council of Europe is legally binding on the Member States. We know that UN resolutions apply, for example. The Middle East is not particularly binding. We have to connect to national government, because if we don't connect to national government, then we don't get a plurality for any of the supranationality of the Norwegian population. Now we see that the European Union is under test. They have our celebrations, both the EU and NATO, in the new Member States, but they have our 'face-to-face'. The financial crisis will now allow them to test this form of supranationality in a downturn. It will be exciting to see how both the EU and NATO and the new member countries in both organisations are tying up this new situation, as there will be a strong test in times of decline. So it's going to be interesting to follow. Then I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister saw to them that the content of the EEA contribution is as important as its size. Here we again get the environment, climate, carbon capture, NGOs, civil society and democratic development. This is what the new Member States in both the EU and NATO may need most when they are about to enter and experience the economic downturn that Europe and the world are experiencing. Here, Norway has important contributions to make, and it seems like we're coming with them, even though of course we have a self-interest in the market shares that we're achieving. So a little example from the EU Quarterly Day out there, from Sunnmore, where the president has good contacts. I'm going to read from Sunnmørsposten the last day: this play seems hopelessly square and will make it very difficult for anyone who runs a boat. The EU directive, which could upset travel life, the ambulance service and smaller passenger routes off the coast, is now becoming a matter for the Stortinget. So right-wing representatives from More and Romesdal ask questions and demand answers from the Labour Party on how this is possible. Is it that way that we can expect a new line from the Right in this area? Then they don't have to ask the Labour Party. It is only to support the SV and the Central Party against this Directive, against the Services Directive, against the Postal Directive and against the Health Directive. Right is welcome in, instead of otherwise politicizing this. The right, of course, is that in any case the EU is not adapted to the Norwegian reality, at least not on the Moor coast, which often has to contend with competition and the market being the best for the coastal communities of More. It is rare that competition and the market are what these coastal strips need. They also need it, but never completely free play. Welcome to the Right if they will try to customize the Norwegian reality! So it's like this is a little bit of an insight into how our way of thinking about the environment and the Norwegian principle in relation to the administration in the north is being seen in Europe. We're not going to draw it too far, but it's the environment and administration that underpin our thinking. We hope that the EU will not go against the way Norway will think about the environment when it comes to governance, both in terms of energy and the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e477	Earlier this week there was an interpellation debate here in the main hall where the members of the Finance Committee participated and where we discussed the economic situation. It was in itself a sad debate, as it progressed, but once again, when we discussed this, this came up with international organisations – to what extent the European Union and other organisations can remedy the situation, and to what extent we could prevent the crisis we have experienced from occurring. There was a run-in to a small EU debate, and the financial committee is becoming more and more frequent. I encouraged people to come here, so we could keep going here, but there aren't so many who participate for that reason. There is no doubt that the financial crisis shows the importance of international organisations. This is because the framework conditions for international cooperation lie in these organisations. It may be because there is a lack of legislation, it may be because the existing legislation that is there is defective, or that the arenas that we have internationally are inherently deficient because they do not work well enough. On the same day, the European Commission presented its forecasts for the economy, and they were gloomy. It is estimated that the Union's gross domestic product will fall by 4 pst, and that it will be up to 11 pst. unemployment next year. Germany will have a decrease of 5.6 pst., estimates the Commission. The economies of the Nordic EU countries are also negative, and these are our main trading partners, so there is no doubt that this will affect us. What is particularly dramatic is – one thing is a decline in gross domestic product and figures flagging over news screens – that EU finance ministers are also warning of a social disaster. For this is about people who live across Europe and who are going to lose their jobs – and they may be out of work for a long time. In many European countries, they are not close to having the safety net that we have in our country, which means that this can be serious and dramatic also politically. The European economy is in the middle of its deepest and most widespread recession since World War II, said the EU Financial Commissioner, Almunia. What we now see is far more serious than what any of us have experienced before. I also think many people have problems taking over what the consequences are really going to be, and for how long this might take. The financial crisis has spread rapidly, because we live in a globalized world. It's not something that's just being discussed in different debate forums, which we started with ten years ago. Globalisation is here, and the economies are so integrated that when the financial crisis arose in the United States, it infected between countries, in the same way as viruses from influenza. Action packages are in progress, and in part they are coordinated – and that is very good. This applies to both monetary and financial policies. But we don't know yet if that's enough. We are not sure how this will work, whether they are strong enough and coordinated enough. The last time this happened, it was interwar time. We all know what it did when the different countries and poor international organisations failed to solve the problems that arose. A serious economic crisis is dangerous. This leads to violence, it threatens political stability, and at worst it can lead to war. After World War II, the political response was the strengthening and establishment of international organisations. We got the UN, we got the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD, and we got the EU. Europe had a special need to have a strong and effective organisation. Thus it became a supranational force of which there is nothing similar in the rest of the world. The EU has grown bigger, and it is particularly in the aftermath of crises. It's not a coincidence that Iceland is now applying. Last time Nordic countries entered the EU, it was also in economic times of crisis. That's really not weird, because giving sovereignty is demanding for a nation. And it should be. But it's necessary if the benefits are greater than the cost. The EU as the arena is important. But we in Norway are striving to use it properly, and that is regrettable. We need mandatory cross-border cooperation. We need more of that, not less of that. The financial crisis is probably proof of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e500	The European Parliament’s decision to ban the import and placing on the market of cell products gives me a few reasons for reflection, first of all that the European Parliament is increasing its power and influence at the expense of the Commission, second that Parliament has gradually become an important lobbying venue, and that European politicians, to the same extent as Norwegian politicians, are particularly influential in election times. The decision of the EU Parliament in the sales case is not based on rational reasoning and evidence. That is the result of the long-term impact and resistance of animal protection organisations on self-afraid in Europe. In Europe, people think it's wrong to kill a cell – a dot. This view is, of course, reinforced by the images of relatively cruel methods of killing which have been flagged over European television screens for several years. Nor does it happen that the decision is now being taken, so that European voters have the business in mind as they go to the polls in a rather exact month. I would assume that among the fifty or so who voted against the import ban, there are up to a number of Members who are not to be re-elected. Our description of today's humane methods of killing, control procedures and fishing traditions has had no bearing on the balances of the majority of Parliament. All the world’s reasoning and evidence in the final phase of the EU Parliament’s treatment of the sales case could not change this, although we may have contributed to a postponement in a few weeks. From this we can learn that stunting in Brussels and Strasbourg rarely works when we want to influence decisions. Information and communication can be an effective tool in influencing – I know that very much about – but attitudes, positions and opinions rarely change in the short term. This is usually the result of a continuous impact. That is why there are constantly more lobbyists than bureaucrats in Brussels. That is why our own presence in the capital of Europe is so important – yes, it is even more important for a foreign country than for a Member State. Of course, it is natural and important that much of our attention is focused on the Commission's work. It has been shown that in a number of areas, mainly where Norway has special competence and experience, we are both taken into account and achieving results. But I think we should recognise that we have neglected Parliament, that we have not taken sufficient advantage of the opportunities we have to assert our interests towards the peoples of Europe. The size has a standing invitation to set up its own office in the European Parliament, without using it. That's an invitation we should soon accept. Furthermore, the various party groups – at least the Socialist Group – have the opportunity to meet and will be welcomed by European parliamentarians whenever we want. We all know how important personal relationships are in international work. Now, of course, we're not going to over-dimension the harness itself. Norwegian self-afraid is unfortunately on its way to being liquidated. It's been for years. On the west coast we shot 1,263 seals in 2008 of a total quota of 31,200 animals. The exclusion should have been far, far greater if we are to be able to say with some credibility that we are going to contribute to sustainable stock development. It is also, of course, an expression that countries by country have banned imports of cellulosic products and that it is therefore difficult to find a provision for skin, meat and fat. Not least for the management of important fish stocks, it is important that the cell stock is kept at an adequate level, well aware that each cell eats between seven and ten kilograms of fish a day. The selenium in the Barents Sea actually eats one and a half times more fish a year than the total Norwegian fishing quota, that is, a total of 3.5 million tonnes. It is part of the calculation basis when researchers are now recommending the total possible withdrawal of fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e515	The Minister of Foreign Affairs addressed many areas in his half-yearly presentation to the Grand Duchy of Great Britain on important EU and EEA issues. What is clear is the message of how closely we are linked to the rest of the world, and not least to Europe, in the ongoing financial crisis and its consequences for the real economy both here and elsewhere. This also applies to all the other major challenges such as climate and health. It helps to demonstrate the importance of close international cooperation and not least of active European policies to address the challenges we face. On 24 April, the Government presented a new Research Communication, Climate for Research. It's now for treatment here in the Storting. The Communication has clear ambitions for continued increased commitment to research and development. One of the chapters deals with internationalisation in research. Research has always been an international activity. It is in the nature of research to seek cooperation independently of geography. Norway is completely dependent on knowledge beyond its borders if we are to be able to further develop the welfare community and increase value creation. At the same time, we have an obligation to contribute to the building of knowledge in the international community where we have top competence. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was in his intervention in several areas, including: energy and the environment. For Norway, participation in the EU Framework Programme for Research is crucial. The framework programmes for research are a key instrument for the internationalisation of Norwegian research and development. The 6th EU Framework Programme actively participated in the Norwegian research environment, and we were well-counted in relation to our share of the quota in the programme. As of 2007, the 7th EU Framework Programme is under way. This is a larger and more comprehensive programme, which will probably challenge Norwegian research communities to take on leadership and coordination responsibilities in major research programmes. The research message we are currently examining is also concerned with how to ensure good and robust research environments in Norway that can take on such a role. We have areas where we are absolutely robust. It's in energy and environmental and climate research. We also have advantages within the sea and food safety. Norway is an energy nation. We have large energy resources that can make us the exporter of new renewable energy. This placed emphasis on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and several others in his posts. These energy resources can provide the basis for new industries and good competence environments built under Norway as an environmentally friendly energy nation. A fundamental obstacle to the development of renewable resources is that it is often more expensive than fossil fuels. The development of new technologies that can make renewable energy sources and energy-saving solutions more profitable is therefore essential. This requires a systematic focus on research and technology development. This is an area that has a lot of attention from the Government. It is an area in which we can make a strong contribution to knowledge development. It will be an area of intervention where we can make use of the 7th EU Framework Programme for Research and Development. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is very concerned about the north and development there. I am pleased that research and development have such a great deal of attention in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. It is important that our research communities in the north are involved in the research related to climate. In this context, the development of Svalbard as an international research platform is very important. It is also essential to increase Europe's interest in the northern regions. By establishing Svalbard as an international site for research as a main pillar of Norwegian activity at Svalbard, we strengthen both the settlement and our own presence in this important area of Norway. I myself have been at Svalbard with the Church, Education and Research Committee and have been impressed by both the University of Svalbard and other research environments in Longyearbyen and in the New Ålesund and their activities. In order to further strengthen European cooperation in climate research, it is important that we continue to develop our North Region strategy based on research and development, as is also evident in the research communication we are discussing. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are pursuing an active European policy. In order for Norway to develop as a knowledge nation, it is crucial. For Norway, too, as a nation with ambitions to develop welfare systems and increase value creation in the country, European cooperation is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e530	More have indicated that we should have better contact with the decision-making bodies of the European Union. Of course, that's right, and of course I agree with that. The defeat in the company shows that contact with the decision-making bodies in the EU is not optimal. We arrived late on the track in that matter. It wasn't primarily our fault, but the process had come too far before a real wish to right Norway's arguments. At the same time, there is little interest in the Norwegian arguments. So even if we had serious arguments in this case, we got short. Thus we came out unluckily, and it became a decision that is not in our interest, nor in Europe's total interest. Of course, whatever we mean, EU membership or not, is a minimal impact in the EU one of the costs of being outside. But this shouldn't be a sleep cushion, this shouldn't be a reason why we shouldn't fight for our interests. And we need to be open-minded, maybe more creative, too, and get on the track early to get the sense of our arguments and be heard in important matters for the future. There are also others who have discussed this with the future of the EEA Agreement. It is now true that there is a lot of evidence that Iceland is about to apply for EU membership. Of course, I am aware of the government's position and Norwegian position in this matter, that one can continue with the EEA Agreement even if Iceland is seeking membership and also becomes a member of the EU. There are some EU parliamentarians who are more doubtful about it. Therefore, it is important that we are also in the forefront and are offensive in this matter, that we follow developments closely, and that we also clarify how we can best take care of Norwegian fishing interests in a situation where Iceland becomes an EU member. One has been about this with the financial crisis and the challenges it creates. Now I found that the financial crisis in many ways has been handled reasonably well from both the EU, Norway and most other countries. But one challenge that is important for us to be careful is that we do not get a development that is moving towards protectionism. Norway, like a small country with an open economy, would be particularly vulnerable if it were the result of the financial crisis. In Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, the Foreign Minister spoke on the conditions for basic agricultural products with a view to gradual liberalisation. Of course, Norway’s failure to open up to agricultural products is considered negative in the EU. Some people see it as a protectionist measure that we have high customs barriers on groceries, while at the same time want free access to fish. I also note that the Foreign Minister confirms that these negotiations are difficult. I thought it was a pity that we had a hard time negotiating here. I believe that there is reason to hope that the negotiations under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement will find their conclusion and that a solution will be found to the issues that will make both parties, Norway and the EU, happy. I think that if one is too steep in relation to that, this can also cause problems for Norway in other areas, and I don't think Norway would be able to do that in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e548	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e551	On the right, last December we made a proposal to ask the Government to launch an immediate investigation into the impact of an Icelandic EU membership. I assume that this situation looks like today, everyone can agree that there would have been no inconvenience if the Storting had joined that proposal, and that the investigation had been initiated for the longest time. What is quite obvious is that the institutional framework currently in the EEA Agreement will not be able to continue with an Icelandic EU membership. What is much more interesting, however, is the political consequences. In future, if Norway is to be in a situation where we are the only one of the five countries not participating in cooperation in the EU, it will also obviously change Nordic cooperation in Norway’s disfavor. In the last period, when the EU was in its last major enlargement process, we had visits to the Foreign Affairs Committee of representatives of the candidate countries, as they were partly also applicants for NATO membership. And from our side of the table, it was unisoned every time: it is in Norway's interest that as many European countries as possible become members of the EU. I agree with the heart. That means it's Iceland. At a recent party meeting, it was assured that it also includes Turkey. What really concerns Norway’s credibility in interaction with other countries is why we operate at the same time with an additional protocol of a secret nature that says: This rule, it is in Norway’s interest that as many countries as possible become members of the EU, does not apply to Norway. For it is in Norway’s interest that this rule does not apply to Norway, as the only European country. I want to challenge the Foreign Minister to comment on this strange double communication, not to say this double political accounting. How long does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that Norwegian governments with their integrity can continue to communicate such a fundamental ambiguous message as this? To my mind, the way we deal with our relationship with the EU has become a dream of Norwegian policy as it is the task of this assembly, the task of the Stortinge, to ensure that we get out of it as soon as possible, otherwise it will weaken our credibility both in Nordic cooperation, in European cooperation and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e566	There has been a desire in the debate to have a broad review of the EEA Agreement in the next period. The Foreign Minister has responded positively to this – that it is natural; we have had it in the past. But then someone also wanted a so-called independent investigation of the options. Under this wish, I think there is a desire or dream to have an agreement that ensures Norwegian business well enough in the internal market, but where we do not have to comply with the legislation. Some such agreement with the EU we will never have, it does not exist. We can get a free trade agreement, which some countries have. However, it does not give Norwegian industry the same competitive opportunities in the internal market as the EEA Agreement. Switzerland has its own agreement. They must also follow the rules of the game. We had a review of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee's meeting now in March in Brussels, where the Swiss ambassador presented the Swiss agreement. The expander. They have joined the Schengen cooperation and are also part of the cooperation programmes. Your problem now is that the Switzerland agreement is too rigid. They want a change that makes it more dynamic, as the EEA Agreement. So I think we have to assume that there is no alternative where Norway can choose and choose between the rules that apply in the internal market. It is as if we are participating in European football tournaments: the Offside rule must also apply to Norway, even if we would like to escape. Then I just want to make a brief comment on Ågot Valle, which first expresses great scepticism about some directives – either under treatment or on the way, as the Health Directive – but which want us to be ahead of the EU and implement the renewable directive as soon as possible. Why in the world are we going to do that? I thought the whole point of standing outside the EU was that in some areas we could have the freedom to do what we wanted. There is nothing in this world that prevents us from implementing a renewable policy that is more exciting than the one that is being proposed in the EU. We do not need EU directives to do that. So this sucked from the no-side for new EU directives is a little weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e578	As I have said before, I am grateful for the Inge Wage, which brings perspectives into the debate. I believe that my answer to him will be to say that both he and I belong to parties that have had government responsibility and that have had to live with the fact that we manage the majority of the people, who in 1994 said no to Norwegian membership of the European Union. By a majority of three-quarters, and with many elections since then, the majority voted in favour of an EEA agreement. That is the reality. As I said, a foreign minister who is a function of a government based on an alternative that has anchored in Stortinget, has as its primary task the task of caring for Norwegian interests. It's per. to secure the EEA Agreement today. Besides that, as a politician and as an individual, I can join in all that Inge Wohnung said. I share that approach to the analysis. It is paradoxical that Norway says no to the EU, but receives delegations, which we not only want to be successful on the road to the EU, but which we also actively support by sharing our experience of negotiating membership with the EU. I, in my personal political reflection, have said in the past that it is a great advantage for Norway that others have not chosen as Norway. One of the reasons why a foreign minister can calm down in the evening is that others have not chosen Norway, namely that they have committed themselves to the cooperation provided by the EU. I would also like to say that I am skeptical about the analysis of wages, that the fact that we have not chosen as everyone else weakens Norway's credibility as a partner and one that concludes agreements. It is not my impression when I meet other countries, that it is drawn into doubt Norway's ability and willingness to live up to its obligations. On the contrary, we live up to commitments, and we overwhelm many of them, and we are a generous contributor in many ways where we can contribute, and where we have resources to contribute. I believe that is also our responsibility. This is also the case, and we have to admit that those who look at Norway do not see a country that has gone to its roots as a result of the choices it has made, but a country that, I believe, has been responsible for both its responsibilities and its obligations and sought to take advantage of the opportunities that Norway has. I believe, as I said in my speech earlier today, that the responsibility we have as a government with the EEA Agreement is to ensure that Norwegian men and women who go to work, who are studying and who are engaged in many types of businesses, can do so under the same conditions as those that are closest to us, namely the European countries. We've made that clear. It is in our interest, but I believe it is also in the European interest. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is also the agreement we have so far that regulates it in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e591	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I think he draws the line between the role of foreign minister and the role of private individuals unnecessarily sharply. For this is what the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now saying, it would be thought that the role of foreign minister is actually a kind of ministerial role. I thought the Foreign Minister was also a politician. At least I would consider it an advantage for a country to have a foreign minister who is a politician. Therefore, I would like to try to take the conversation a little step further. I did not put any question mark on Norway’s general credibility – it seems to me to be quite good. My question of credibility was formulated as follows: How long can we continue the double-booking or double-communication process that claims that it is in Norway’s interest that all European countries other than Norway become members of the EU, while in Norway it is in Norway’s interest that this rule does not include Norway? There is an attitude that at best is paradoxical, and at worst is just suitable for weakening credibility. I would like to link the question to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not commented on: how will a situation in which four out of five Nordic countries are members of the EU, and Norway is the only Nordic country outside, affect Nordic cooperation, which we are currently in the process of vitalising? I believe that it is good and correct that we are in the process of vitalising it, among other things. through the report put on the table by Thorvald Stoltenberg, which the Nordic Foreign Ministers – as far as I understand – will discuss at a meeting at the beginning of June. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not agree that it would affect Norway's position also in Nordic cooperation if, as the only Nordic country, we chose to stay outside the EU, and even more if the Foreign Minister's government partners wanted to respond to any Icelandic EU membership by loosening Norway's relationship with the EU, namely to wind up the EEA Agreement and instead to enter into a bilateral trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e602	I have the government system's best departmental council, so I don't have to make him the rank conflict. It is the responsibility of a politician to deal with the majority of the Stortinget. That is what I do, and as I believe my predecessor also did – as Inge Wohnung is closer than I am – when he was responsible. I think that's a clear starting point here. There is no unnatural distinction between the perceptions of a private individual and the function of Minister of Foreign Affairs. I do not conduct my own personal foreign policy. I conduct foreign policy on behalf of my party and on behalf of the government I sit in, which has a clear majority in Stortinget. In the case of government partners, the representative may assess his or her own potential partners and see if they had a different view of the approach. There's one nuance in the logical reasoning for pay that fails a little, this about how we can claim what's good for other countries, but shouldn't apply to ourselves. I would say there is a difference between the ten-to-twelve countries that joined the EU and Norway. The ten-to-twelve countries that joined the EU went through a historic process of anchoring in the Euro-Atlantic structures, through NATO and EU membership, where EU membership was essential to stabilising societies politically, economically and socially. That that process is not complete, we see in these days, when the crisis rages. So it's about these countries becoming members of something that gave them stability – a stability Norway has a long way to go initially, as NATO-alliert, as an EEA partner, as a country that is on an indication of integration among the most integrated countries. The fact that no questions are asked about our integration makes it predictable about investments in Norwegian business. It was crucial for these countries, which came out of the sphere of interest they had been in after the cold war, to secure the same thing. So I think it's possible, although it's not my view, to say that you're against Norwegian membership of the European Union, but see the benefit of these countries securing that approach. So my personal view is that I'm for both. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, there is no doubt that when a new Nordic country becomes a member of the EU – I stress, to my regret, that the majority of Iceland is against membership of the EU, but if they are to become a member – that matters. Does it matter? I don't think so. With all due respect for Iceland, I do not believe that Icelandic membership will affect the cooperation we are now looking at in the field of foreign and security policy and defence policy in the Nordic region. There are main engines — in addition to Norway — Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Those countries are members of the EU, and there is no record that there is a significant distinction between us in being able to further develop that cooperation. I believe that all five Nordic countries in the EU had given a clearer profile internally in the EU, but I am quite sure that the recovery in Nordic cooperation we are now seeing will not be hindered by any Icelandic membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e617	I'm sorry I'm a little late for the debate, but it went a little faster than I thought. I wanted to say a little bit about research, because it was so much affected by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his good report. Research is vastly international in nature. This concerns the use of results and the need to have international networks to carry out research at the top international level. And it's cross-border in both areas. Research is about the future society, and it is about the future structure of the economy. In the field of research, the EU has enormous ambitions. In contrast to today’s government, which is more concerned about getting away from the objectives pursued for research in the previous period, the EU is keeping track of the objectives and is working quite deliberately to get into port with them. We see that in the huge jump you do from the 6th to the 7th Framework Programme. It is also seen that the EU is creating ERA, the European Research Area, which is in many ways an internal market in research. There shall be a free flow of researchers and there shall be free flow of results. Norway is not included, nor are we linked by the EEA Agreement. There should be an area where one looks very closely at how Norway should have its connection there. Because we are actually outside when the EU does its priorities in these programmes, and we are, as I said, not bound to ERA through the EEA Agreement. By sitting outside when the EU does its priorities on such large programmes, which we also cover very large costs – it is probably up to 1.2 billion kroner now going from Norway and entering European research programmes – there may be a risk that the EU will make priorities that non-Norwegian enterprises see fit to meet. The interim evaluations of the 6th Framework Programme towards the 5th Framework Programme indicate that this process is already under way. We'll see about that. It is an entire review that is announced in connection with the research report we now have for treatment, but the preliminary signals I get from, among others. NHO, that's what happened. I think that the research area is one of the areas where the paradox is greatest, by choosing to stand outside where all priorities are made, and where all decisions are taken, while at the same time being totally dependent on the developments that are taking place. For Norwegian research, in isolation, Norwegian research, will not be able to develop in close as well as possible in close cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e630	The representative of Inge Wohnning has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e633	I share the foreign minister's skepticism against private foreign ministers. It's a udder. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was not present in the Foreign Affairs Committee in the last period – for good reason – so he did not follow that communication. The communication was actually just like I was referring to it. It was said by all the representatives on our side of the table, no-parties and yes-parties, without any restrictions or reservations of any kind, that it is in Norway's interest that the largest possible European country – no-one mentioned, no-one forgot – become members of the European Union. Then I would assume that the Foreign Minister will agree with me that that message does not logically go very well with the opposite message for Norway. Now I expect the Minister of Foreign Affairs from the fall will stand on this pulpit in a different capacity than the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Will he then feel free to go into the butt?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e642	I need to have the representative on the pay side corrected slightly when it relates to the situation in the Foreign Affairs Committee in the previous period. What happened when many times was that we met with other countries' representatives in embarrassing situations when one had forgotten what the Norwegian people had actually said – if it hadn't been for the rebellious people, it could have done well. That's what we had to do on the no-page all the time. Although there may be an overweight of yes-people in the committee who acquit and ask because we haven't gotten in, that's the situation, and that's what the Norwegian people have decided. Then there is no doubt that the trauma that Inge Wohnning is talking about is a trauma that yes-side goes and prays. They're still waiting on the day they think it might be a chance to win a referendum. It is clear that on that day, EU cases will reach full scope. I record that this is what Inge Wohnung wants. Let's see now when that day comes. It's going to be interesting. Then we're in a completely different situation. So that's what the representative Svein Roald Hansen is dealing with in relation to climate policy. It is good to be against the EU, but nevertheless see that in some areas the EU actually has a better policy than Norway. In part, they do when it comes to climate policy. That's what Valle meant. It is also fully possible to oppose Norwegian EU membership and not to rely on other countries to report or not. So to Iceland again, we've done what we're going to do. We started that in March last year when the Norwegian and Danish national banks supported Iceland. Iceland was in a situation where there was speculation consciously in their economy. We made a friendly purchase of Icelandic kroner, just to support the Icelanders and stand loaded and broken with them in the situation they were in. That the Icelandic companies Kaupthing and Glitnir simultaneously raid Norwegian banks, now get to be another side of capitalism. But there is no doubt that we support it. We were a mess with our Icelandic brothers and sisters. We're going to do that regardless of how they work in Europe – whether they choose to go in or whether they choose to stand outside. The fact that this would lead to problems for Nordic cooperation shows for the last 10–15 years that it does not want to – there is no connection there. We have very good cooperation in the Nordic region, even if someone has chosen NATO, someone has chosen the EU, and someone is outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e653	I'll make this card, because I intend to give Inge pay the last word. No matter where I stand or sit in this hall for the autumn, I'm going to miss Inge Wohnung. I think that he's not going to be here, is another example of the historical flaws Right can take! What I want to say, and as I said earlier in the debate, is that I intend to stand on this platform in the same function, and then I will work systematically, restless and maximum for Norwegian interests based on the political framework we have to do so. Having an impact on the position I have on Norway's connection to Europe, and which I share with Inge Wohnung, I want to take on my side, and I want to be involved in the design of my party's positions. Then, as the representative of that party, I want to work for the solutions that the party has in cooperation with other parties. Then we have to be so that the good does not become the best enemy, or vice versa. And today, the EEA Agreement is the good solution we have. I believe, as I said, that in today's situation it is a foreign minister's duty and responsibility to work to take good care of it, because it is so important for Norwegian welfare, Norwegian jobs and also in the sum of it for Norwegian security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e662	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e665	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, said that it is against the EU, but believes that in some areas the EU has a better policy than Norway. Yes, of course it is. But my point was that Norway does not need an EU directive to implement the renewable policy we want. We can take the coast full of wind turbines without having to get help from the EU. I thought the point from the no-side was that you should be able to stand free and do as you would. I think the core of what Jacobsen says, really is quite indicative of the no-side. For they want Norway to be in a situation where we have advantages of EU cooperation where we want it, but if there is something that suits us badly, we should get away. If all European countries thought so, the EU would not be found, and if all countries had thought so in all contexts, it would not be possible to obtain international conventions. That is what is so sad about a party like SV, which wants stronger political governance. That is when we need international cooperation and joint decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e672	Bear Jacobsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e676	When it comes to choosing the worst and choosing the best, I see quite clearly that the representative Hansen can have a point, but that's the political reality. However, that is not the basis for SV’s resistance to the EU. I've done good for that before. Of course, the main thing is the lack of popular government. So back to the confirmation that we're partially celebrating today, and that we're going to cancel next year: the EEA Agreement. Why is it so afraid to cancel the alternatives to the EEA Agreement? There's kind of such a trembling mood in the hall here when you're going to get the options. If we don't believe in the confirmation, don't we believe in the EEA so much that we can get the options out? It only costs two to three men and women in the U.D. four to five months to make a good report on it, and then we can see him. Maybe they're working in a shorter time? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already pointed out who is going to do it. I hope we get it to next year's good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e683	I would like to give Mr Hansen the right point, namely that there is no need for an EU directive to pursue a better renewable policy in Norway. That's absolutely right. The problem is that we have not been able to push forward the renewable policy we should have had, because there have been forces within the government that have made it difficult. There are many in government who would like to see us have a stronger renewable policy. I would also refer to what is suggested here, namely that those opposed to EU membership are also opposed to strong international cooperation. That's where Mr. Hansen is wrong. Many of us who are opposed to EU membership are in favour of clearly enhanced global cooperation, and that is because we see that the greatest challenges we have – which are about the environment, which is about poverty – can only be solved in a global context and not in a regional context. The dilemma is that so much foreign-policy energy goes into regional cooperation that we don't have enough foreign-policy energy to handle the global. So it's interesting to listen to this flirt between the Labour Party and the Right in the EU case. And it's not new, so we don't wonder about it. But it is clear that it is possible to wonder that you want to flag common interests so high in this field, when you are not willing in practical policy to take the consequences. In the old days, we talked about the Little Alliance. Well, it's distant now, and I'm happy for it. But you might want to worry that it might also look a little funny from the outside that you have this adventurous celebration of each other. With regard to the EU issue in Norway, the issue is that there is a majority of the people who say no. There has been a continuous negative majority in Norway for more than four years. And as for this flirt between the Workers' Party and the Right, I'm surprised that you're not concerned that there's actually a majority in the people who, after all, say no.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e697	I take the floor as a response to the previous speaker said, with regard to the fact that we are spending more foreign energy on regional rather than on global arenas. My clear impression is that Norway is using a lot of foreign energy on all these arenas. The problem with the regional level in the international context of Norway has been that, in order to participate fully in the EU, sovereignty has to be waived. And there are some parties that have bigger problems than others, because it has a cost. That's when you have to balance, as I also said in my post, benefits and disadvantages associated with it. You can't pick one or the other, as the representative Hansen said. To help achieve the results the world needs, whether it is to combat poverty, solve the financial crisis or solve the environmental problems, sovereignty must be given. And that's what separates the EU from the other organisations. Then it is absolutely right that the EU, as a regional organisation, is too small to deal with a number of problems – yes, this is the case. But we need the Nordic level, we need the European level, and we need the global level. The problem with global organisations is that there must be full agreement between all countries, and then these organisations become paralysed. One example of this is the agricultural sector and the Doha Round. There, Norway is one of those countries with a negotiating position in which it is about giving sovereignty and giving to poor countries in areas that are difficult for example. Norwegian agricultural interests. I believe that this is a matter of renunciation of sovereignty in relation to the gain we can gain from commitment cooperation, because it is the only way to solve poverty problems, solve the financial crisis and solve the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e706	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e722	This may appear to be a small matter. But it can have considerable consequences if Iceland's plans for the search and possibly extraction of oil and gas in this particular area are realised. I would say that in the context of Iceland's difficult economic situation, it must be allowed to hope that they will find extractable resources in the area. But if that is the case, it will also affect our hold on petroleum activity in the area. If we get Icelandic oil and gas extraction here, it will have some impact on our activity. If Norway had its own interests, we would be forced to search and map the resources that exist in the border area. I believe that most of the evidence suggests that the easiest petroleum resources available in the world are mapped and extracted. In view of the future demand for energy, I believe that there will be an increased international pressure on access to the areas where it is possible to operate petroleum activity and where it is possible to do so. It is in any case a clear advantage that any legal relationship to such activity has been clarified, and therefore it is very positive that this agreement goes in greater detail than previous agreements Norway has made with other countries. The fact that it is more pervasive is an advantage both for the government and for any commercial actors. This current agreement is a clear advantage both for Iceland and Norway. With this agreement, we will have a clarification with another neighbouring country. Now we've been given a clarification that makes an increasingly large part of the total limit or our divider line regulated by similar agreements. Unfortunately, there is still a part. Therefore, I thought that I would close this post with a small request to a neighbouring country that has not yet been legally resolved this kind of question with Norway: Do like Iceland! Everyone will benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e729	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e745	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e761	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e780	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e789	I'm going to start talking a little late, so I guess the Council of State is going to come into the hall. Let me, however, go straight to the matter. CO2 cleaning, which we're trying to do at Mongstad, can be an important tool to cut the world's CO2 emissions. At the same time, CO2 treatment could result in cuts in many other emissions that have more local pollution problems associated with them. It provided the Committee with a good level of transparency at the hearing. This means that CO2 cleaning here can hit many flies in a taste and must be seen in a wider perspective than a pure CO2 accounting. But it is also worth noting that the International Energy Agency in World Energy Outlook for 2008 has estimated that approx. one-sixth of the CO2 cuts needed to achieve the two-degree objective of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will pass through CO2 cleaning. In addition, the IEA proposes a massive commitment to nuclear energy, renewable energy and energy efficiency. This is one of the four effective instruments on which it needs to be focused. In this respect, it is interesting and good that Norway is taking a grip here. One knows that today there are between 5000 and 8,000 large CO2 sources that can be suitable for cleaning. We also know that a significant number of fossil power plants will be built in the future. A technological breakthrough in this area compared to the capture of CO2 will not only be a good CO2 measure, but it will also be an exciting business opportunity for the companies or nations that succeed in developing a technology that can compete on the international market. At the same time, in the Norwegian debate, we should take on board the fact that competition is high. Of what you hear in debates, you often get the impression that the rest of the world is sitting and waiting in suspense to see what Norway is getting at Mongstad, because that's what will be carrying or failing the CO2 clean technology. I think those who travel around the world see that it's not just in Norway that one thinks about this. There are many projects here, there is a lot of competition and there is no lack of effort. In the latest edition of the Renewable Energy Recharge, there was a long list of CO2 clean-up projects – from Northern Germany with the Schwarze Pump and all the way to China with the Huaneng company, which is now in the lead-up only to capture CO2 consumption in noise production, but which nevertheless hopes to find technology that can be used. In the United States there are several projects, and in Australia a demonstration project is being opened. Statoil is involved in Algeria, and we have Mongstad. The reason why I mention this is both to show that there are many people who think that we do, and also to stress the importance of finding out and developing technology that can actually compete. It's not enough that we get a technology where we first need to build something, if other countries build something that works much better or have a much lower cost. That's why the way a project is set up, and the way the engineers work, is very important. It must be much more important than setting ambitious deadlines for engineers to take shortcuts, where they would like to get the first full-scale facility up once in the future, but where one year later a company or a nation has put more emphasis on engineering and less emphasis on political excellence. The winner in this area is known to those who build the best and cheapest, not just those who build first. In this way it is gratifying to look at the Committee's work in this matter. The committee is standing together about a lot. At the previous crossroads, in 2006, when one discussed Mongstad at a slightly more general level, there was an overall committee that welcomed the State's contribution to the research and development of a CO2 chain. This is followed up. I believe that the Committee's comments provide a basis for Mongstad to be a good project. The breadth of the Committee's comments, the fact that one stands together about almost everything, means that the project will also be robust towards government changes and various budgetary negotiations in the years to come. That's important, because this is long-term. I'm going to take a little look at the points in which the committee completely shares its views, and then I'm going to finally take off my hat as the case rapporteur and focus a little on what the Progress Party thinks should have been done differently. So in the technology center in Mongstad, the state has to go in and own 80 pst. and Statoil 20 pst. The Committee is very positive that other companies should be able to enter the owner's side at the expense of the State, if they want to. Well, more actors sharing the load, the more good heads it's together, the more chance we think it's too successful. The cost is estimated at DKK 5.2 billion and the operating costs are estimated at SEK 250 million. kr per year. This is significant amounts, and it is not the amount of money that can be easily prioritised in relation to all other good measures and the sizes of the environmental budget that are already in place. This means that we need to focus on cost management and budget management in this project, so that we get what we pay for. There's no reason to believe anything but that Gassnova, who coordinates this, has a focus on it. The construction of the installation shall start as soon as possible and its purpose shall be to test different CO2 technologies for CO2 cleaning. The Committee feels that it is particularly positive that one in the test centre has suggested that one should be able to adjust the CO2 content of the exhaust gas so that a test can be done both to simulate gas power plants and to simulate coal-fired power plants. I think that's very important, because given wherever in the world one will first start to clean, enough coal power is what the other country will start with. We see that today's action costs are estimated to be between 700 kroner and 2000 kroner per person. tonnes of CO2. These are costs far higher than other CO2 measures around the world. Of course, the ambition is to reduce this level of costs considerably. That is important, because if CO2 cleaning is to be an instrument in the field of CO2 reduction, a few costs need to be reduced in order to increase prevalence. There is no reason to believe that countries like China and India will use CO2 cleaning technologies that cost more than the cost of the power plant itself. The day this is going to be cheap, the spread will also be great, and then you have success. Initially, Aker Solutions is to test out amine and Alstom is to test out a carbonate solution. The Committee considers it important that the plant be built with a high degree of flexibility and also test other technologies in the future, so that this plant will have a future beyond just those two tests that are now. So it has to be a center that is attractive and attracts different companies and different technologies, and it has flexibility to test out more than one technology at a time. It's important, so that one here does not adopt something that has a very short-lived effect, and where one spends a lot of money on infrastructure that gets lost in the future. It is also important that Norwegian actors are given the opportunity to contribute, and they do so initially through Aker Solutions. However, there have also been several other projects in progress in Norway — several of these were at the committee hearing. To the extent that Mongstad can take care of them, it will be very good. Then I would also like to emphasize that we are going to take seriously the work with the test centre and the test they are going to do. The work done and the experience gained must be used in the decision-making process of a full scale CO2 clean-up plant. The Committee assumes in its observations that tests on the plant are evaluated and included in the decision-making basis for a full-scale CO2 clean-up at Mongstad. There are probably different views on how fast things can happen, but I think it's an important signal to the engineers in the project that their work will actually be used and not just be a cover for something to happen. I also think a prerequisite for success is that one actually gets to test this properly and evaluated and adjusted it, before one starts to build in full scale. The Committee has also stressed that the health aspects of, for example: the use of amines must be carefully evaluated. The Public Health Institute has looked at the studies around the release of amines. It appears from a press release published on 4 May that there is ‘a surprisingly low level of knowledge on both health effects and environmental effects of several substances that can be formed’. That's what Marit Low says. It is not an argument that this should not be possible, but an argument that it must be emphasised in the overall process that a person is studying the different sides. This applies not only to amines, but also to carbonates and other technologies, so that one knows that when a breakthrough is made on the technology side, a health aspect has also been taken care of, which means that there is confidence in the population that technology can be put into use. So it's an overall committee that supports what's going on, it's an overall committee that shows its willingness to do it, and it's an overall committee that's making many of the premises for how it's going to be done. There's a couple of points where a little bit separates. The majority shall be given reasons for their views. I would like to justify the view of the Progress Party on some matters. We should have had even more flexibility in the project. The Committee’s consultation showed that there were many actors on the ground. We feel that one has gained a little too little flexibility in the project, because one from the Government early in the process was in a hurry to achieve the goal of realizing a full-scale facility by 2014. I think the project could have been even more forward-looking and robust if 2014 had been less focused in the beginning and one had rather emphasised the long-term effect of what one could have achieved from emission reductions above, for example. a 30-year period or until 2050, because it is the cost reduction that is important. The cost reduction will be small to begin with. It is at least the estimations that are also made in the landfill proposal in that area. So one estimate is that amine cleaning could reduce costs by up to 10 pst. during this test. If you don't even get the test evaluated, there's little reason to believe in a great development. But if you get a revolution in technology, the benefits of it will be much greater in a 30-year perspective than the benefits of starting to clean Mongstad full-scale one year earlier. Had a had more time in advance, one could have had an even greater flexibility, so that the arguments that came from, for example, Sargas, the Institute of Energy Engineering and Christian Michelsen Research, could have been focused and made the system more flexible, and one could have had a slightly different technology approach initially. At the same time, I believe that we should not stop the Mongstad process as it is now. However, further work on CO2 cut and technology should ensure that the alternative projects in Norway, which are heavy, which have heavy institutes behind them and which have some credibility in order to succeed, should have an opportunity to be tested elsewhere. I remind you that Sargas has previously tried to obtain a concession on a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning on Melkøya, but has received a discount. It is appropriate to consider again whether to try to achieve something similar. We also know that in Central Norway there is a desire for gas power plants, but the requirement for CO2 cleaning at start-up makes it not realistic. Maybe one could have combined a pilot plant of those who can't be in Mongstad with a gas power plant in central Norway? The solutions promoted by IFE and CMR and Sargas are much more concerned with integrating purification with the production of power, and it could then be suitable for being built together with a new power plant in central Norway. I therefore hope that the Council of State will address these approaches in order to further increase the scope of research and development in terms of CO2. I also hope that one can discuss more closely the possibilities of creating a system in which the state guarantees to buy CO2 at a given price per. tonnes — this in order to create a flexibility which means that one does not necessarily have to go through a bureaucratic government mill in order to approve a project, but that those who are willing to take a risk on their own, as Sargas has been, can actually start, knowing that there are general framework conditions that will come into force on the day they themselves put money on the table to make an investment decision. It will, in my opinion, stimulate a wider environment than you have today, while avoiding a throw-over of all risk costs to the state, because this private actor himself has to risk a lot. So I would have liked you to have made a broader strategy with regard to the use of CO2. Today, landfill is the most widely mentioned solution. Mostly used for injection in mineral water production. One wants this in the case of oil extraction, but has not found it profitable in Norway. But someone knows it's a project, for example. by IFE, which may bind CO2 to oil wine and perfume. We know that Shell is working on the possibility of landfilling CO2 in brick production, and there are Norwegian environments working on landfilling CO2 in plastic. And a journal shows how to use CO2 to generate fuel. Ergo: One uses an emission problem today to actually become an energy source. This does not give the TCM an answer to, and it should have been part of a more holistic approach at the next intersection. One should start working on that area much more constructively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e934	I thank the case rapporteur for a thorough introduction on this matter. I think he gave a detailed description of many things here. As he said, the committee is basically grouped together in the whole position, and of course in the decision, which is important. That is what I think strengthens this matter very much. But let me take some considerations about it. What is behind this is, of course, that the fight against climate change is a challenge, and it is also closely linked to the world's energy needs. That is why we are now paying so much attention to the capture and storage of CO2. We can't turn around and buy such plants on each corner. You have to start somewhere, it has to be made right for it, and we have to have experience. For this reason, it is important for Norway to have project planning now and an investigation work. We also know that other countries are doing this, but no one has come up with a final solution. It's important that we now develop a CO2 technology, and it's also important that we do it in an economic perspective, so that it doesn't get so expensive, and that we can implement it all over the world. In view of the major global climate challenges, we believe that Norway has a significant responsibility to put in place technologies that can help reduce climate emissions while ensuring access to energy. I would also like to underline what I have said earlier in debates on climate issues here in the Chamber, that Norway has a special ethical and moral responsibility, as we have this heavy industry with us, and we are developing it so well. But there is no doubt that oil and gas contribute to increased emissions. According to the International Energy Agency, CO2 capture and storage could contribute up to 19-20 pst. the reduction in world CO2 emissions. This is significant. You can't ignore that. But as I said at the outset, the purpose of this technology centre for capture and storage in Mongstad is to identify, develop, test and qualify possible technological solutions for the capture of CO2 and to reduce the cost of capture of CO2 so that technology can be widely applied. This is the first place, but as the Prime Minister once said in a speech, this is a'monthly landing project', and that's what it is. I believe it is important that we in Stortinget also dare to take this step fully. We're not absolutely sure about everything, but it's important to be groundbreaking in this area. That's why we're going so badly into economics, putting together the organisational model and getting it into place, and it shows that we're taking a lot of responsibility. Nor is it for nothing that the EU has entered and approved this plant – so that we do not break the EEA rules, etc. We also know that the EU and the countries with major projects in relation to the 2020 target and carbon neutrality. It is clear that then this is one of the contributions. We are also aware that the European Union is putting a heavy strain on this, and they also notice what we are doing. 5.2 billion 2009 dollars is a not insignificant amount, and we're probably going to come back to some adjustments at a later date, because this will be further followed up. We have great ambitions, as I said, and Gassnova has outlined this quite clearly. As I said, I am not going into detail on this, but what we are asking for politically is to test, verify and demonstrate CO2 capture technology – owned and marketed by suppliers – to further reduce costs and the technical and financial risk of such full-scale CO2 capture, to ensure that CO2 capture technology can have a broad national and international application, and finally – and that was also what I started with – to reduce the environmental risk, related to full-scale CO2 capture. I would also like to link some comments to the comments and to the timetable set here. We wish – together with an overall committee, on which the rapporteur was involved – to use the experience of the test centre as a basis for making the best possible decision in relation to the investment decision for a full-scale clean-up facility in Mongstad. All parties agree on this. We were aware, however, that this could be misunderstood and interpreted so that it would involve a possible postponement of full-scale cleaning at Mongstad. This is not and never meant to be. For this reason, the red-greens submitted a note that just underlined the importance of maintaining a full-scale clean-up schedule at Mongstad by 2014. It's a little strange that the government parties are alone about this remark. The Red-Green Government is in favour of security in relation to the original timetable in this case. It has puzzled me a little bit that the bourgeois parties stand for uncertainty and uncertainty as to when full-scale cleaning in Mongstad can be in place. However, they themselves will have to answer for this and clarify it. But on our side, the policy is the same today as it has always been in this matter: we want full-scale cleaning at Mongstad by 2014, and that is in line with the timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e983	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a very thorough work on this major and important matter. Even when he took off the case rapporteur's hat and put on the party hat, his statement was not significantly weakened for that reason. In any case, the Right supports almost every word of what the rapporteur explained – therefore only a few minor additional remarks that state that we would like to have high pressure on this matter. The right hand says clearly that we should of course go further on, as the Workers' Party spokesperson was in the room. But most importantly, what lies around technology development. That's where we must have looked rigidly fixed. So you could say, do we have a slightly smaller view of the timing that does not belong to the government side? No, we don't. But it is not certain that the most convenient way is to start with moon landing, and then determine when, where and how. It is almost as if the Stortinget were going to take a decision that in 2014 we are going to have a Norwegian 100 meter runner who is able to reach the finish line in seven seconds. It is not certain that Storting is the most appropriate body to make such a decision. But we have the same bold targets in this area as the government parties. Therefore, the Right has been with the crown for the crown and has granted the money that is required. This is about solving the climate challenges during a period when we know that the use of fossil fuels around the world will not be reduced but increased. Norway has made a search for fossil fuel production and exports. It has filled our treasury to a level that no country in the world can compare to, and we have made ourselves rich in exporting enough hundreds of millions of tons of CO2 per. years spent in other countries. That is why, as the Nordtun representative was also involved, we have a moral responsibility to help solve the technology flow as such. But this must be applicable, and it must be a technology that can be used anywhere in the world. Like the rapporteur, it is crucial for me to point out that we must have looked at cooperation. Technological development is primarily created through cooperation. The development of Norwegian sockets is perhaps the best example of how we have become the best in technology and good in the environment – perhaps the best in the environment as well. It's through international cooperation we've reached those levels. That's why I think the government parties might need to listen a little bit more when we from the opposition stress the need for those who want to be actors to develop this kind of technology to get to it. This is going to be, I think, both the Biggest and not least the Ministry's challenge in the future. It is somewhat worrying — in brackets — that some of the most important settings we have in Norway, at the hearing, indicated that they feel that they are not getting on this path. They themselves claim, at least, that they are at least as competent as the actors we have within the State and the existing system of Statoil. That is why we on the Right have nothing against the state as such going down from 80 pst. ownership of the project, by allowing others to escape if possible, or developing alternative technology, whether we are talking about Melkøya, Industrialkraft Møre, or where it might be. Nevertheless, the challenge is to ensure that technology and cost can go hand in hand. It helps very little if Norway is left alone, to afford to install a full-scale cleaning plant at a price of NOK 25 billion. It's going to be so expensive, as Solvik-Olsen was about, that others don't want to afford to be part of this. Therefore, the concepts of flexibility, cooperation and transparency are a guiding principle in further work. Knowing the size of today’s US and EU programmes to develop technology in this area, it also says a little about who Norway is going to be working with. However, Norway has the opportunity and knowledge, and it is of course important that the Department and the Council of State are very hands-on in further operations to achieve a full result by 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e999	I want to start by reminding you of the background of this matter, namely the fight against highly polluting gas power plants. It is a prerequisite for us to be able to put in place such a drag as we now have in order to clean gas power plants. We should also have that in mind when facing new choices in the future. Saying no to a polluting future can be saying yes to a climate-friendly future, which also gives Norwegian technological environments and Norwegian industry the opportunity to claim themselves. That's why we're now spending billions of kroner on CO2 management. Now most people agree that it is good that we have invested in this for climate reasons, but also, as I said, for the sake of Norwegian business and technological environments. Ivar Kristiansen from the Right had a good description of moral responsibility. He also talked about Norway's historical responsibility for the climate problem through our CO2 exports, which is significant in relation to how small Norway actually is. But I wish that the reasoning that Ivar Kristiansen had will also be passed on, so that he saw that the way ahead of Norway must be to go away from oil addiction, that we are not now positioning ourselves in relation to our most vulnerable areas, such as ours. The Lofoten and the West Pole, but that we are betting on a renewable future. Maybe we're totally dependent on succeeding in CO2 management projects if we're going to be able to save the earth from the most serious climate change. According to the International Energy Agency, the IEA, the capture and storage of CO2 could contribute to 14-19 pst. the reduction in world CO2 emissions. The government's bet on this now is an example that we don't just leave the bill to today's and tomorrow's children. Because it's going to be, as we know, through the Stern report from the United Kingdom, much more expensive – extremely expensive – the longer we wait to take real climate responsibility. Now we know that Norway has to cut its emissions by maybe a minimum of 85 pst. In 2015, we might have to be CO2 negative. So it's a formidable transition that we have to go through. We and our government believe that Norway has a significant responsibility to put in place technologies that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions while ensuring energy supply. We want Norway to be a leading country in the field of CO2 capture and storage. The government’s objective of the Mongstad CO2 management project is to contribute to the development of technology so that other countries can also use it effectively as a means of reducing CO2 emissions. However, it is also a point to influence other countries to bet, and it is a point that Norway needs to take an additional responsibility as a country that is thus historically responsible for the climate problems. Some comments on Ketil Solvik-Olsen from the Progress Party. He made a point that Norway is not alone in investing in so-called CCS, i.e. CO2 management. We get the impression that the world is waiting in suspense, the representative Solvik-Olsen ventured. We're glad that other countries aren't holding their hands, but they're also making an effort to try to get this done, whose goal is to save the world from the most serious climate change. Then it is good that there are several countries that rate. But what's great is that Norway has shown leadership and courage in this matter, allocated billions of dollars and put considerable pressure on the European Union to also invest. In fact, we have been able to influence EU policies by showing our willingness to bet. Then we hope for more projects that can succeed individually, but also that Norwegian technological environments can cooperate internationally. On Saturday an absurd front against us from Bergen's Official Journal: "Mongstad can get ten years without cleaning," it said. It was claimed that the Stortinget opens the door to a postponement of the cleaning, which Ketil Solvik-Olsen’s representative rejoices during the interview. Firstly, it has never been appropriate to postpone the construction of full-scale cleaners. The three government parties stand together behind a very significant remark in this setting, which I had thought the Christian People's Party and the Left would stand behind. We write that a full-scale plant should be installed in Mongstad since 2014, cf. the timetable. Why isn't the Left and Christian People's Party involved in this, when they complain that the Government is constantly breaking its own promises? I hope that the Special Representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will explain this, as she agreed to doubt the timetable in the article from the Official Journal of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1048	We have a CO2 emission in the world that is not sustainable. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, we must reduce by 85 pst. By 2050 if we're going to reach the 2 degree goal. The EBL has this week produced reports that suggest that we should go down to 2 tonnes per capita in Norway if we are to cope with this by 2050, and Bellona yesterday put forward a comprehensive climate action plan for us, where they believe that we should be CO2 negative by 2050. The IEA says that capture and storage can contribute to 14-19 pst. the reduction in world CO2 emissions. This says something about the need to succeed in what we are adopting today. The Christian People's Party believes that we have a significant responsibility to put in place technologies that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time ensuring access to energy. We believe that Norway should be a leading country in terms of CO2 capture and storage. Why should we be a country of priority? Why should we take a significant responsibility? Well, that's because of our own history. If we look at the CO2 emissions from the oil and gas sector in 1990, they were between 7 and 8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. If we go to 2007, we see that there is a doubling of this sector's CO2 emissions. So we have a significant responsibility to facilitate capture and storage on our own way home. But we're early when it comes to technology development, and there's a lot of technologies we're trying out. That's why it's important to put in place a technology center in Mongstad that works thoroughly, where we can test the methods so that we can finally complete the CO2 cleaning plant. We can't afford to fail with this. The Christian People's Party has noted some uncertainties about health aspects of the use of amine purification technology. These include: warnings that amines released into the air may be harmful to health at higher doses. The Christian People's Party assumes that the health aspects of the technology choices are subject to thorough research and that the results are included in the selection of different technologies. We must create security – and not fear. The Christian People's Party once again notes that the Government is breaking its clear promises in the policy of gas power. The promise of pipe transport and storage from the test facility in Mongstad has already been broken. The promise to clean up the gas power plant at Kårstø by 2009 has already been broken. There's a lot of uncertainty, at least in terms of technology, about whether we can meet the 2014 target, which the Government is offering to Mongstad. Then the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen challenges me and the Christian People's Party on why we are not involved in the remark of the government parties in this position. This is related to the following: Why should we believe that we will succeed in the future, when we have not succeeded in the part of the agreement that has already been made? What we should have done, we're not clear. But we support this project. We're going to get the heads that are needed. We're going to be impatient about succeeding in this area. But the Mongstad project is entirely the project of this government. This is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's lunar landing project. We want to be on the moon. But let's celebrate the day we stand there. I'd like to be with the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen – if in the background – the day she's in and she's cutting the cord. I'm not sure if it will be in 2014, but nothing will please a Christian People's Party-heart more than if we meet at Mongstad in 2014 and cut the string. Because we really don't have time to lose on this project, but technology development is demanding, and we also have to take that in, even if we're sitting on different sides of this table.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1093	Let me just comment first that there is a new move from the Christian People's Party and the opposition that a choose not to enter their own ambitions because one does not trust the Government. So it was a neat explanation. It has been done by the case-speaker and others in depth for the content of the proposition – the investment in the technology centre in Mongstad. On the part of the Centre Party, we support the comments and conclusions of the Committee and the Committee of the Regions. It is important, as the case-speaker also stressed, that the Committee has gathered to a large extent on this matter, but it is also to be seen as supporting the ambitions and objectives of the Government for work in Mongstad in particular, and also for the great effort to develop technology for the capture and storage of CO2. For the centre, it is important that the test centre is an attractive and flexible centre in such a way that it can play an important role in testing different technologies in the years to come. It is important to stress that the test centre is not connected to the full scale system in such a way that it must be completed, the tests carried out and the evaluation completed before proceeding with the establishment of the full scale system. On the contrary, the Government's plans to set up a full-scale facility are fixed in 2014. This is important to clarify in the light of the uncertainty that you have tried to look at this issue in the future. Then we have to assume that planning, construction and operational activities at a test centre provide valuable experience and knowledge in the process that can be gained from the establishment of full-scale facilities. Today's decision is one of many small but important steps in reducing global climate change. As many people have been involved, Norway has had huge revenues from its petroleum resources, and therefore there is also a moral responsibility on us to help bring about the technologies that can meet the global problems that result from the cooling of large CO2 emissions. With the work we put down to capture and storage of CO2, we also contribute to the global green energy that the world is in, and the creation of a technology centre in Mongstad is an important piece in such an image.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1117	I share Mr. Erling Sande's view that the climate challenges make us need a global response. We need a global effort where countries contribute — and contribute in areas where they have good conditions to deliver something that matters beyond their own borders. In the field of energy and climate policy, I see two main areas in which Norway can make such a contribution. One is in marine energy production, where we have the opportunity to produce clean energy to the delight of more than those who live and work in Norway. It can also provide a basis for exciting economic and industrial development. The other area in which Norway can and should contribute to projects that may be significant beyond its borders is linked to CO2 capture and landfill. And it's related to this second point that the Mongstad bet is included, and that the Mongstad bet is important. The left hand side fully supports setting. We agree that the Ministry of Oil and Energy can participate by up to 80 pst. the investments and operating costs associated with a technology centre for CO2 management in Mongstad. It is evident that the test work is relevant to the construction of full-scale CO2 clean-up plants and one assumes that evaluations from technology tests are included in the investment decision for full-scale installations. This does not mean that one should wait the entire test period and add up to a race starting from a later start of full-scale installations than one previously assumed. This is very clear to the Left. We want to start full-scale cleaning facilities at Mongstad as soon as possible. This is an area where there is no room for new releases, because we have had a lot of them. When the Soria Moria statement was presented, SV's manager said that now the debate on cleaning up gas power plants was over. Now it was time for the cleaning of gas power plants to take place from day one, and the cleaning of the Kårstø plant was to take place before 2009. Now we know that the Kårstø plant can be cleaned in 2012 at the earliest, perhaps even later. Then we know that the Mongstad plant was allowed to start without cleaning from day one, as promised, and you know that the promise of cleaning in 2012 is broken. There is good reason to discuss whether clean-up is possible in 2014. I hope so, and the Left will make its contribution to that being possible. But StatoilHydro has, among other things, in recordings, contributing to one's being able to say that it is more likely to be withdrawn. What has been created by uncertainty regarding the deadlines and cleaning of gas power stations has not been created by the current state of processing – it has been created by the government’s sewerage, by the government’s lifting break and by repeated schedules that have not been kept. That is why the people wonder if we are facing another timetable, another promise to be broken. It is frequent when one from the Government is trying to shift responsibility for failure to, for example: Christian People's Party and Left. It is also clear from the attitude that we are strongly critical of the lifting breakage, strongly critical of repeated postponement, and that interpreting it as if we are now opening up a new postponement is pointless. So my appeal to the Government is: hold the pressure too full on this, and now see if it is possible to have one deadline in the gas power policy that can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1141	I would like to begin by saying that it is gratifying that the Stortinge today provides broad support for the Government's proposals for investment in the technology centre for CO2 management in Mongstad. I believe it is an important day and an important decision in relation to both the CO2 and CCS issues and to the large, overall climate policy. The State will be ready to make investment decisions together with StatoilHydro and other industrial partners when the full investment base is available in a short time. With the technology centre for CO2 management at Mongstad, the ambition is to establish an arena for targeted development, testing and qualification of CO2 capture technology. It is absolutely necessary to develop and test such technologies in order to reduce technical and economic risks and to disseminate technology in this way. Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. The climate problem is closely linked to the world’s energy situation. The main objectives must be to ensure the availability of safe and reasonable energy while at the same time contributing to a rapid transition to a more environmentally friendly energy system globally. I believe there are three measures that can help to combat global warming while delivering energy to a world with increasing energy demand: investing in renewable energy sources, energy efficiency improvement and capture and safe storage of CO2. Success in achieving large-scale capture and storage of CO2 is a major challenge. The development of new technologies is costly and takes time. There is a technical and economic risk involved in developing technologies from the research stage to the industrial scale. We must respect that. An updated 50/50 cost estimate before the investment decision in projects, including collateral supplements, refers to total investment costs of approximately SEK 5.3 billion in 2009 including VAT. That's an increase of about 100 million. kr in relation to the cost estimate presented in the proposal. I will keep the Stortinget well informed about the budgetary developments in the implementation of the project. The State shall cover a maximum of 80 pst. of the costs. The work of recruiting additional industrial participants will be intensified in due course. Through the technology centre at Mongstad and the other CO2 management projects, we are doing concrete work. We're following up the CCS part of the climate work. It makes us a leading country for the development of CO2 management. Gassnova contributes with completely central and solid follow-up. We also have the CLIMIT programme, which stimulates research and development in the field of capture and various forms of CO2 storage. It is through active efforts to develop concrete projects that we can in time find solutions for the broad application of CO2 management technologies. The work on CO2 management at Mongstad is thus unique in the world context. The testing of two different exhaust gas streams with two different capture technologies is not done anywhere else in the world. It provides a unique flexibility and increases the relevance of the project. I'm glad to announce that we now have confirmation that both amine technology at Aker Clean Carbon and the carbon technology at Alstom will be involved in testing at the technology center. It will be tested on an unprecedented scale, constituting a necessary step between small pilot projects and full scale capture installations for CO2. With the technology center, we are taking an important step towards developing efficient technologies for CO2 capture. It is a big and difficult job to do now – it is not the paycheck we are discussing. The technology centre is a large and complex industrial facility where the investment base is extensive. Planning has highlighted challenges to capture CO2 from large process plants in operation. In order to meet health, environmental and safety requirements, infrastructure is planned to take account of different and definitely such considerations. The Technology Center is a forward-looking project. It could provide the basis for research tasks for universities and other research environments. The investment is going to be something we can enjoy for years to come. The action will provide experience that will be important for future projects. Among other things, there is much learning in the planning, design and construction of the technology centre. In addition, operational experience could benefit from the investment decision for the full-scale plant in Mongstad, inter alia. depending on the design of the plan for the full scale project. According to StatoilHydro’s emissions permit, full scale CO2 management is to be established in Mongstad by the end of 2014. The government is related to the current emissions permit and the 2006 implementation agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1226	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1229	In the work on CO2 cleaning, cargo and storage, the use of CO2 is an important question, at my discretion. Governments stressed the importance of safe storage. But safe storage may as well include storing it in minerals or products as storing it under the ground. The Committee writes that they ask the Government to consider how to stimulate research projects where CO2 is used as an input factor. Has the Council made any reflections on which project approaches he will try to work out, and how the Storting will be involved in this work in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1245	I believe that the representative Solvik-Olsen has a good point in working widely in terms of using CO2 and looking at CO2 as an opportunity, not just a problem. There have been considerable attempts to do so in the past in relation to pressure support on the socket, where CO2 was to be defined as a plus project. It's so far arduous. In terms of concrete follow-up, we have programmes dealing with CO2 problems in a wide range of ways. The CLIMIT programme, on which the Stortinget is well informed, is the most concrete in this way. Within that programme, there is open scope for working on the type of project that the representative addresses. I think it's an area that we might well have increased focus on in the future. I can also contribute to the wider coverage of this issue than has so far been the case in future documents in this area sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1264	In the consultation process, it was clearly expressed from several heavy Norwegian environments that they felt that they were not allowed to be on the offer page to test out alternative technologies for what is being tested today by Alstom and Akers. Sargas, for example, clearly tells us that they are already able to handle CO2 capture. Is it desirable, on the part of the Council of State, for alternative environments to be allowed and given the opportunity to test their possibilities, their technologies? And if so, if the Council of State has such a wish, how can it help to allow other and new environments to escape in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1274	The answer to the question is yes. If we're going to succeed in working in the CO2 field, we can't put all the eggs in a basket, we have to have a variety of research environments, companies and institutions working on these issues. In this way, it is important to look at the work within CCS/CO2 as well as a job beyond the specific project at Mongstad. I think that the technology center and development of it is going to lead to many more companies in Norway than Aker Clean Carbon are going to have relevant tasks and thus develop their skills. In addition to that, as I mentioned in my previous answer, the CLIMIT programme, which openly invites the business community in Norway to processes related to this. We also have the recently defined projects linked to research centres in, among others. CCS, who soon got a lot of money to follow up the climate agreement, which is also expected in relation to this area in the future – so yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1287	There has been a reference to an article in the Official Journal of Bergen, which has created a certain ambiguity. I myself believe that I put it this way in that article that it became clear that the Left wants full pressure on the implementation of full-scale cleaning as soon as possible. We have also tried to express strong criticism of repeated postponements of time limits. I want to have the Council of State's confirmation that he has perceived the Left so that we are a strong supporter of having so much pressure on full cleaning that it can happen by 2014. So do I want to have the Council of State's assessment of what went wrong when he promised to clean up Kårstø by 2009 and at Mongstad by 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1296	Without putting anything more into it than that, I have to say that after the tenth of the Committee's chairman came out of the Parliament a few minutes ago on what he perceives to be a lack of follow-up in this area from the Government, it is relatively bold now to ask for a general update of the Left's policy in the same area! I'm going to be a little bit more fussy than what I perceived by the representative Kvassheim to be a few minutes ago, and say that I perceive the Left as a co-player in this. I understand that the Left wants to find solutions to that. I see the environmental exposure of the Left as being sincere and genuine in this area as well. So I guess my answer will be a call back that they might show something more of the same grievances to the work that the government is doing, where I think we have no ambitions other than trying to find the best solutions in this area, while I'm humble to the fact that we're operating with difficult issues. We're going to make mistakes in the future. We do things that no one else has done before us. It's also going to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1305	I think the Council of State is in the constructive corner today. I would therefore just like to refer to a comment in the setting where the Committee ‘provides that evaluations from TCM technology tests are included in the investment decision for a full-scale CO2 clean-up plant in Mongstad’. Today's Business a few weeks ago, Secretary of State Robin Koss was out and said that it was not safe to finish the test center before going on with full-scale facilities. What will the Council of State do with the Committee's comments? Will he ensure that one assumes that the evaluation from the test facility is included in the investment decision for a full-scale cleaning plant – with the hope that it will go as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1320	From today's date, when the Storting now seems to take the decision it's up to, there's going to be a continuous learning process at the technology center in Mongstad. We're going to be very careful to think that working with CO2 and CCS in the future, there are some 'absolutes' in terms of dates when learning has happened and when levels of competence have been reached. We're going to learn every day. It would be pointless if we didn't use that learning from the technology center to build full-scale sewage treatment plants in Mongstad. So at the same time, the actual emissions in Mongstad are important to be managed. That's why we don't have time to wait for this in a way that keeps us looking for the possible new technology that's always going to be there. That's what it's going to do. We're going to break new barriers all the time. That's why I repeat what I said instead that I have 2014 as the time of the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1330	Governments kept a good and balanced statement. He said that there is a ‘large and difficult job’ to do, this is not a ‘magnificent’, there is a great risk associated with technology and economics, and that ‘we must have respect for’. These are three about-quotes with a handwriting from this post. From the Christian People's Party, I hope we succeed. We want to work so we can succeed. We need to be involved and give the necessary funds. We are going to take the fight that is needed for this, not because it is important politically, first and foremost, but because it is important for the climate and the climate challenges we face. I could have actually drawn this line, but the Council of State spoke so low at the end of its reply to the previous replicator, so I ask, will we succeed in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1339	I see myself as a relatively practical guy, who is concerned about what we're going to do, and who also sees the joy in the constructions of Mongstad – establishing the physical we're going to do over there, which is also a technological development. I've been there looking at what's been done so far. What's coming further from there is much more exciting. I said in the pulpit instead, and I repeated it in response to Solvik-Olsen, that I am working according to one plan, and it is to succeed both with the technology center and with the goal of 2014 in terms of the full-scale facility. That's my goal. So I think we all do ourselves a bear service if we now go into a discussion like this: if we don't make it in 2014, who's to blame? I can say it the same way to the representative Holten Hemdal as I said to the representative Kvassheim: I believe in the Christian People's Party's involvement in this matter. I ask to be believed in my commitment to the same. That is why I do not now need to make any plans other than the one we have in 2014. If we do not reach that goal, it is not due to a lack of political will, it will be due to practical problems. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1351	The President will remind you that when the red lamp ceases to light, the speaking time is over. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1356	I think we're wise to see CO2 in perspective from problem to resource. Climate change is one of the greatest political challenges of our time. We can quickly agree on that. Norway, as a nation, has committed itself through the Kyoto Agreement to reducing its share of the global greenhouse gas reduction. A strong commitment to research and development of cost-effective technologies for the clean-up of climate emissions is required. The question is whether this effort is one-sided and slightly forward-looking. The state's establishment of the CO2 capture technology centre at Mongstad is expected to be a forward-looking commitment to the development of methods to capture CO2 and to use these methods globally through the export of technology. Unfortunately, this major effort is primarily an attempt at environmental action and, to a small extent, a forward-looking industrial development with the exception of the cleaning and storage technology itself. The high demand of the government and the Prime Minister for international popularity now forces them to fully scale clean-up of CO2 from refinery to power generation, which is hoped to be export service to the many coal-fired power stations around the world. But the question is whether there is an interest in the solution and whether it is competitive. The staging proposition we are dealing with today deals with efforts to capture and store at the combined heat and power (CHP) plant and the Mongstad refinery, which is commonly referred to as the ‘moon landing’. Many suggest that the cost framework is very high and that the solutions have a number of uncertain aspects, such as: the storage on the seabed. The gross domestic product does not say anything about the use of CO2 either nationally or internationally. If the state's commitment to CO2 clean-up is to have a sustainable function, then the use and use of CO2 must also be achieved. A number of research environments are already well under way with projects based on the industrial use of CO2. Unfortunately, the government has so far only focused on cleaning and storage, which is also reflected in the investment in research environments. Right-wing wants a more sustainable commitment to the use and capture of CO2 in value-creating industries. We therefore want the CO2 technology centre to cover more than CO2 capture. The Centre must also be entrusted with research into the use of CO2 in industrial or other value-generating contexts. We therefore believe that there should be a new wholesale message dealing with the future use of CO2. The technology centre in Mongstad must have a functional role linked to the different research environments in this area, from CO2 capture to CO2 deposition and exploitation in a new value creation. The interaction between the industrial actors in energy production in Mongstad and the research environments will thus result in a more holistic approach to the challenges and opportunities associated with CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1420	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1423	As the rapporteur on the matter, I think it is now time for a brief summary. I think it has been a good and constructive debate, in which the signals from the various parties, and not least from the Council of State, have been good. I think the Council of State is right that we should be careful to allocate blame in advance in case things don't go as planned, and that, given the will of all parties, this can't be due to political sommel, or lack of desire, but to have respect for the technological complexity that you're dealing with here. So I also think it's important and correct, as the Council of State says, that this is not an absolute relative to time and all of this, but that you want to have ambitious goals that you're reaching for. This project has a long-term perspective, even if you try to get started as quickly as possible, and there must be a global perspective on what you're trying to do. That is why I am pleased that the research and development process is focused, and that at the same time good progress is underlined. But I think it's getting a little petty when the Socialist Left Party is trying to create a debate about who is most ambitious, and owes it to the Left and Christian People's Party for not wanting to support the 2014 goal, when we know that such goals – at Kårstø in 2009, Mongstad in 2012, yes, even demands for cleaning from day one – have been broken many times before. It's more important then, I think, that the large majority here are behind the fact that it's the process and the premises that are given here, which are positive, which are good and clear, and which makes the actors who are behind and who are going to work in the project know what they have to do with. It is also very good to see that there is a broad voice here to stimulate further research from other actors, that we should try to facilitate more in order for companies like IFE, Sargas and others to be able to test out their technology both in the short term and not least in the long term, but that this must be practical. Because you can't just magic Mongstad and the TCM project to be twice the size of the facility for everything. I look forward to getting the government's input into using CO2 in a diversity. I think it's quite right, as the representative Halleraker says, that we should probably have got our own big message about this. They've seen that, for example. on Kårstø, one direction has been taken and then changed along the way by including other premises for who should be pre-qualified, with the costs it will incur. I think it would have been much better for a broad debate to be held early on in the next enlargement period through a big message on the premise both for new CO2 clean-up projects and for research and development and use of CO2. If this government could have started working on such a big message, even if it was not presented until the next period, it would be useful, I think, to maintain a progress on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1461	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1470	The imbalance between power generation and consumption is mainly linked to Møre and Romsdal with a normal consumption of approximately 12 TWh and a mean production of 6,5-7 TWh per years. In order to obtain the import of power, it is necessary to make close use of the import capacity of the grid. It has, especially in the past, made the area very vulnerable. Some would criticise that we have allowed an exceptional increase in power consumption. One reason is the increase in aluminium production at the Sunndalsøra and the gas processing plant at the Worm Lange on Aukra, growth in Hustadmarmor production and a very positive development in the economy and business of the county. Another reason is that we also help consumers to increase. I'm proud that we've got to these companies in the region, with enormous value creation, high skills development and the securing of thousands of jobs. It's also so that it hasn't been obvious, or maybe not even likely, that we should get to these expansions. I know that from a political point of view, I have worked very hard for these major industrial projects. A sudden demand for power has not been as easy for changing governments, power producers and state networks to anticipate or take into account. The risk of rationalisation of power during a possible dry year has also been eliminated by major reinforcements and expansion of the mains and by the fact that the auxiliary power plants on the Aukra and on the Tent Goods are now in place. The problem is that no one has a duty to build up new power. This is well illustrated by the fact that the two who have a concession to build gas power plants in Forest have put the project on hold based on profitability considerations. The same applies to the extensive tests to build gas power plants on the Tent Goods with CO2 handling, and to the possible use of CO2 to obtain more oil from, among others. The Draugenfield. The government has addressed the challenges throughout this period. The answer lies in new power transmission connections, voltage enhancement measures in the network, new generation in terms of more hydropower, bioenergy and wind power and more efficient energy use, among others. through the Enova support schemes, which are the State’s tools to promote more production and energy efficiency. Statnett has invested DKK 5 billion in recent years, and new large billion investments are planned. The answer may still lie in putting in place gas power. In 2009, the state will spend billions of dollars on the development of large-scale CO2 clean technologies, as we have just discussed. Industriekraft Møre's plans for gas power plants in Fränna are exciting, and the application for a concession is now subject to appeal in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I hope for a positive outcome. Although very large expansions of hydropower are history, there is a lot going on in the case of small power plants. There are potentials for upgrading and not least the extension of existing power plants. I have been presented for more exciting plans, including: in Rauma and Nesset. Many and important plans for increased wind power generation are under way. Now we're in a new call round. The government has a clear strategy for ocean-based power generation. The interest in using biomass for heat production and power generation has increased significantly and many good projects are in place or in the process. This is a major contribution to the energy balance. There have been large investments in the network that allow us to make better use of the existing network. Increases in transmission capacity from Central Sweden are soon in place, at least during this year. It's very important that we get the transfer line from Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane and into Ørskog in More and Romesdal. This will still take time, but it will be crucial for the supply situation when that line is in place. There has been systematic work on several fronts over a long period of time, and as the results come, the level of supply and security of power are increasing throughout the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1507	Let me begin by stressing that the proposal we are now considering to promote an action plan which will include proposals for concrete measures to address the supply crisis in Central Norway, of course, is something the Progress Party is behind. The Progress Party supports this because it is important, and challenges relating to the power supply situation in Central Norway are something we have known about for a long time, both here in the Stortingen and in the Government. Despite too much information about the strenuous power situation in More and Romesdal and Trøndelag, in the view of the Progress Party, there has not been enough done by the Government to meet this challenge. This striking emergency unit from the Government by not addressing the supply problem more actively in central Norway, is also reflecting here today by the fact that the government parties will not support the proposal we are now considering. Unfortunately, almost any proposals from the opposition here in Stortinget, which are intended to contribute to increased power supply in Norway, are generally voted down by the red-green parties. This case clearly shows that the old power-socialists in the Workers' Party's ranks have also slept too well. They have been completely overrun by the anti-industrial and power-reliable small party SV. The striking passivity of the red-green government in expanding new capacity in the power supply both in central Norway and elsewhere clearly shows that the sitting government does not take seriously either forecasts or realities of power supply and power needs in central Norway. Increasing power shortages in central Norway and the long-spent power supply situation in that part of the country seem to be perceived by the Government as something that is not a problem that needs extraordinary action. The red-green rejection of the proposal that we are now discussing testifies to an increasingly irresponsible and arrogant energy policy on the part of the Government. I would also like to remind you that it is approx. Three years ago, Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen of the Central Party said here in Stortinget that he saw the seriousness of the power situation in Central Norway and therefore worked on an action plan on the power situation in central Norway. This alerted the action plan to a blow in the air. Three years after the promise was given by the Council of State in Stortinget, it has been done very little. Even Prime Minister Stoltenberg promised in his 1st May speech in Verdal in 2006 gas power plant at Skogn. But absolutely nothing has happened here either. The breakup is for the longest time a fact. The huge wind power project at Outer Vakna is also being iced up at the moment – this probably because of the government's lack of action in facilitating good framework conditions that could result in increased power deployment in the country. In view of what both the Government and the Prime Minister of this government have previously stated on this matter, it is in fact very alarming that the government parties now, three years later, do not see any serious reason to complete such an action plan to avert a supply crisis in Central Norway, and are being proposed here in the United Kingdom today. The party of progress cannot really accept the irresponsible power policy of today's red-green government. For these reasons, as mentioned at the outset, the Party of Progress will vote in favour of the proposal. I would also like to address the proposal that has been put forward in order to get the Government to present as soon as possible an action plan with concrete measures that can avert an urgent power supply crisis in More and Romesdal and in Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1526	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1529	Three years have passed since former State Council Odd Roger Enoksen in Stortinget promised an action plan on security of supply. Several government councils have gone since that time. The only thing that's the case is that Odd Roger Enoxsen's promise is still hanging in the air. Nothing's happened. The power deficit in Central Norway is strenuous, and it is precarious. In a normal year for More and Romesdal alone there will be a shortage of approx. 5 TWh. It's when you look at the fantastic industrial journey that's only taken place in recent years, alarming to all those who want to establish themselves in the county and in the county. But there are solutions. The solution will have to be to expand more permanent power and to increase transmission capacity to the national part. When you look at today's government treatment of, among other things, Wind power, where we've had more government shifts than windmills built, puts the government in a little strange light. Looking at small-scale power generation, where we also heard the case-rapporteur thanking the Government's own policy and not least refer to all the exciting projects in the region, it is tempting to ask a rhetorical question about how many of these projects will be implemented in a very short time. The answer will have to be: Very few. The government creates an uncertainty that means that the potential power is not developed because you don't have a long-term support system, like green certificates would have been. It has a meaning, especially in relation to wind bets. In the case of small-scale power deployment, we know that the NVE's long process time is helping to beat the legs of a series that want to expand environmentally friendly small-scale power. In addition, of course, the changes that have taken place in the field of interest rate taxation and other types of taxation on power generation are coming, which in turn creates increased uncertainty. It is tempting also to mention that Right in Stortinget, together with among others. The Progress Party has supported increased local treatment of small-scale power, which would also have had an impact on the rapid entry into the market and ultimately increased transmission capacity and, in particular, energy efficiency improvement. Let me also say that, like the rapporteur, I am very pleased with everything that has happened especially in More and Romesdal in terms of industrial construction. But I am all the more disappointed that the Government does not see the importance of predictability also in terms of power generation in that part of the country. If you get a dry year, Mid-Norway will be hit hard. When we then know that very much of Norway’s export industry is also concentrated around that region, it will have dramatic consequences for the nation of Norway. However, once again, if the opposition’s wish had been followed up — the wish of an overall opposition — at least political responses to the challenges facing it could have been provided. But governments are shadowing away. As Torbjørn Andersen also pointed out: just because it is the opposition that is promoting the proposal, one does not want to participate in a constructive consideration of the proposal, which it had deserved. The drawer is the biggest in Central Norway. Here, there is a whole part of the country that once again is pushed down on the government's priority list because obviously you have quite different considerations than taking into account industry and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1548	Unfortunately, the issue of the power crisis in Central Norway has become a reoccurrence in the Stortinget, without any significant contribution to solving these problems. We have an imbalance with regard to power generation and power consumption, which was discussed by the rapporteur. We have a production today of 6.5 TWh and a consumption that is almost twice as large. Unfortunately, with the exception of the construction of new transmission links from other parts of the country and from Sweden, and the construction of two back-up power plants, which are poor climate action and a poor solution to energy use, little has been done in relation to the development of new permanent capacity for energy production in this part of the country. The Christian People's Party has believed that we can use this region as an exhibition window in relation to sustainable energy solutions that can replace, among other things. the two replacement gas power stations for which provision has now been made. Earlier in this Chamber, we have called for Middle Norway to become a model for the development of sustainable energy solutions based on the resources available in this part of the country. Unfortunately, we are not getting through to it in this debate, as neither is the Government involved in an action plan at that time. The Christian People's Party is pleased with every crown that Enova gets transferred. But it is important that the crowns we transfer to Enova are triggered in new projects, either in relation to new power generation or in relation to energy efficiency improvement. It's just what helps this region, and the rest of the country. If we're going to do that, we have bigger challenges, because it looks like Enova's getting more than enough money compared to the projects they can have that can be supported. Of two wind power projects supported last year, it looks like maybe only one is being realised, and then we haven't come that far from creating more renewable energy, wind power, among other things, in central Norway, despite the fact that Enova has got more money to spend on these years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1559	It's an important topic that's been addressed here today, and some of us have been very committed to this for a long time. For my own part, I must admit that during this period we have not come to where I hope we should be. Now there is still time to put in place a number of decisions that can improve the situation, but it is also, I think, right to say that those decisions have not yet come, and in Trøndelag and in me there are some great expectations of the Government that the necessary measures will be taken. With regard to the network problem in Trøndelag, as I feel it is important to address here today, and now, I am happy about what is happening, namely that you get increased capacity on the line between Nea and Järpströmmen. It is a line that has been there for many decades and was built to finance the expansion in Neadalen in its time – it was the Swedishs who did. What I'm questioning, however, is whether that, when the supply situation is as strenuous as it is after all, is right to pick down the line so as to build something new, instead of building a new line next door and then picking down the old one when the new one was ready. I think that is probably an example of what I want to say is a bit of a strange disposition on the part of Statnett, and which, in my opinion, underlines that the management of the situation – from Statnett, who has this responsibility – has not been good enough, and could have been significantly better. Furthermore, because you've been out late, because you haven't been up to the situation early enough, huge sums of money have been spent on projects of a temporary nature, and as a broad majority here in the Storting are very concerned about not being used. Then I aim at the mobile gas power plants, or the ones that are really the emergency power units in Trøndelag, and that have cost a lot of money. In my opinion, it would have been better if this money could have been used to put in place sustainable production, preferably renewable production. It is a paradox that, on the one hand, we are able to build these back-up power plants on gas, but on the other hand, we are not able to trigger these investments, for example. on wind power that we've got ready, projects are done, and it's almost just putting the shovel in the ground. I think that is part of a larger debate, where one should like to discuss the dynamics of the policy and the framework that Statnet has, in order to ensure that we get the best possible use of social resources, and that the money we spend goes to lasting measures that are needed. So there's one thing I think it's right to say, and that's that the final solution to the challenge we have in Middle Norway is in the line-up to Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane. It's a very important project, it's a project on which there's been a lot of focus, a lot of thinking. I also feel that both the Government and the Ministry of Oil and Energy have had a lot to do with it. It should continue. However, I believe it is important to be clear to both local and regional authorities and environmental protection organisations and other interests if you are to get through the project. This is a project that's going to be precious, it's a project where you, I think, if you're going to implement it in time, you have to be consistent and say that this is actually what we have to do. And I've noticed that has been difficult to communicate from some levels of government. It's in some environment-created expectations that I think it's going to be hard to meet, and then I think especially about the extensive wiring of this line that I think is too expensive for it to be justifiable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1570	Today, we have received some exciting recognition from central party politicians who are central to the design of energy policy during this period and who conclude that they are dissatisfied. It started in the foreign debate where Åslaug Haga was looking straight, quite perceptive, that there were strong forces in the government that prevented a more offensive commitment to renewable energy policy. So it said a former party leader and a former oil and energy minister, who summed up the government's misguided policy in this area, in the Stortinget. Now we heard Ola Borten Moe asserting that he had hoped that more had come and been done in this area, which has been run by three central government councils for four years. Away Moe says that there is still time to shop. There is nothing to suggest that that time will be used to act. Among other things, the government has failed to provide an alternative to green certificates, which are as powerful as it is, such as a commitment in the climate agreement. So there's probably more time for summation after four years of misguided energy policy than action. And so Borten Moe and Åslaug Haga have today made a valuable contribution to that summary. The debate we have today should be unnecessary in many ways. For an action plan for this area was promised by the Government. If that action plan had been adopted, it could have helped to achieve the objectives and solutions that are relatively widely agreed. We have also had a debate similar to that in which the opposition has called for such an action plan to be drawn up. It has then been voted down by the majority of the government parties. But there are good reasons to try again – because the situation in this area is challenging, but also because the opportunities in this area are great. It was one could have been illuminated and put pressure on in an action plan. The response that comes through this proposal reflects the failure of the Government to invest in key energy policy components. I also want to point out that the Left and Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for this region to be used to create a model for sustainable energy solutions. An action plan could also be an instrument in this context. It was mentioned by Ola Borten Moes as a measure. It cost billions. I hope it never comes into use. What was an alternative to investing in mobile gas plants was to take on Hafslund's plans for a bio plant on Averøy. They were willing to use the same resources that were laid down in the mobile gas power plant to generate back-up power on Averøy. It irked left for, it irked Hafslund for, it irked others for, but the government said no. A desire to lock this capital and invest it in mobile gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1583	The strained power situation in Central Norway is closely related to the hydro-aluminium extensions on the Sunndalsøra and to the decision to build the Worm Lange plant without putting in place new power generation. The power situation in central Norway is more strenuous than in other areas of the country, and there has been a need for a separate price range in the region for periods of time. The region is particularly vulnerable to significant precipitation failures. On 13 April this year Statnett reintroduced Mid-Norway as a separate price range. The reasons for this were low levels of water in the warehouses and reduced grid capacity in the area. The reduction in grid capacity was due to the disconnection of electricity lines from Sweden to Central Norway in the summer due to the construction of new lines with higher capacity. It will contribute to better import opportunities for the region after the corrections. Measures directed by Statnett have always been central to the policy of improving the power situation in central Norway. State networks have made extensive improvements to the transmission system within and into the region based on existing network development plans. Statnet has implemented and launched network investments in Central Norway, including: is built a new 420 volts line between Sunndalsøra and Fränna and Nyhamna. In addition, Statnett has run nine capacitor batteries and two SVC systems for, among others. maintaining the import capacity of the area. Statnet is also in the process of building the Nea-Järpström transmission link. This link, as mentioned above, will increase the transfer capacity between Central Norway and Sweden and will be scheduled to enter into operation until the harvest. The work on network reinforcements has enabled more imports into the region and better power flows within the region. In total, Statnet has invested approximately DKK 5 billion in the region over the last years, including the costs of the spare power plants. In addition, state networks plan additional investments for approx. DKK 2.5 billion. The main single measure in improving the power balance in central Norway is to establish a new transmission link between Sogn and Møre. The state network concession application is now pending in NVE and the NVE is planning to take a decision before the summer. I expect the decision to be appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In that case, there is one thing I want to give a very high priority to. Realising this transmission link will significantly improve the power situation in Central Norway. The second main element to improve the power situation in Central Norway is the commitment to renewable energy and energy conversion. As part of this, the NVE has strengthened its capacity to process concessions. NVE will also give priority to issues in regions with a high power deficit, including: Middle Norway. Enova has a significant activity targeting municipalities in central Norway. This includes both municipal energy planning, i.e. energy efficiency improvement, and concrete projects. In particular, the municipalities of central Norway are encouraged to apply for grants and to realise concrete projects in that area. As you know, the government has strengthened access to capital for this purpose. The Energy Fund has been strengthened by nearly DKK 1.2 billion only in the context of the action package. This means that this year we have DKK 2.6 billion available for this type of action. All Enova's bet areas could be given priority, including in central Norway, including increased wind power. In this way Enova proposes to implement two call rounds for wind power in 2009. The deadline for applying for the first round is 15 May, which is very close. Other measures are also being taken to improve security of supply in the region. Among other things, I have started a work to assess what action space there is to support new production and consumption efficiency in Central Norway, taking into account security of supply. If so, I have had informal discussions with Commissioner Piebalgs on the matter, and the ministry has also had preliminary meetings with both ESA and the European Commission on the same subject. The power situation in Central Norway illustrates that the establishment and expansion of large consumption units can pose major challenges for the power system. It's important, just like we're doing in connection with Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, which has been submitted to the Stortinget, that we look at the relationship between production and consumption, and set a clear framework for it in the future to avoid such a situation as we have done in Central Norway, as a result of the fact that it has not been planned well enough over a long period of time. Overall, a job is now being done to improve the power situation in Central Norway. It's not one thing that can be solved from one day to the next. It's a lot of work, but a work that we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1615	The Council of State said in its statement that some of the most important thing is to strengthen the transmission capacity into Central Norway, but the Council of State also mentioned the importance of supporting new capacity in production. The deficit in Central Norway is roughly approximate. 5 TWh. If we look at the forecasts and statistical figures available, there is still a significant useful power potential in both the Moors and the Romsdals and the Trendelags, i.e. in approx. 7 TWh -- if we ignore everything that's protected, and everything that's expanded. What kind of thinking does the Council of State do when it comes to exploiting the great useful hydropower potential that still exists there, which is at 7 TWh – which is thus greater than the power deficit that exists in Middle Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1624	I am enthusiastic about good hydropower projects capable of delivering new renewable energy, which can at the same time be developed within the requirements we will and should put in place to intervene in nature with regard to environmental restrictions. Otherwise, I had the pleasure of opening up an expanded plant in the West, in Sauda, a few weeks ago, and only there comes 600 new GWh into the Norwegian power market. We also see that we from small-scale power plants are given significant impetus as a result of new power developments. That's good. I'm also very enthusiastic about being able to get new renewable energy from wind power. There we see that we in Middle Norway, as in the rest of the country, have gained little force in recent times. That's why we've also gone in with more money. We have, as we know, a new call in a few days' time, and I really hope that there will also be an application for support for good projects in central Norway, so that there is an opportunity to increase production in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1633	The representative Borten Moe's posts become a will over the action pulp of this government in relation to the supply situation and not least the power situation in Middle Norway. The representative says that there is still time for action. So my question will then be, simply, to the Council of State: What action does the Council of State plan to present to the Grand Council in the time he has left as Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1640	It is about one week before the deadline for applying for Enova's wind power round. It's an area that allows Middle Norway. There may be concrete measures that come as a result of the money that the Government has made available for winemaking, money that has not previously been available to the industry. I cannot go into detail and manage private projects. I am not going to go in and take the proceedings for the projects for which, hopefully, money is being applied for. But now that the government has put so much more money at its disposal, it also increases the possibilities for concrete action in central Norway to increase production. Otherwise, I have to say that it is a pretty strong experience to sit and listen to representatives of Skovholt Gitmark's posts here today, where he did not have one reflection in relation to what was not done in the previous period to ensure the power situation in Middle Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1649	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the Council of State that there was only one party in the previous period that took the force situation in Central Norway seriously. It was neither the Right nor the Center Party. However, former central government councillor Åslaug Haga of central Norway was in mid-Norway in January 2008 and stated with outrage that Mid-Norway should be given priority in terms of the funds now repeatedly referred to by the Council of State in terms of new renewable energy. The funds allocated in 2008 for new renewable energy did not end up in Middle Norway, despite the fact that we have two wind turbines that would together have given close to 1 TWh new renewable energy into an area that has solid and critical undercoverage. One of these projects is Outer Vicna, one of the very best projects in this region. Is it so that we can now understand the Council of State so that not only does it say so, but in fact also believes that Mid-Norway will be prioritised in relation to the development of new renewable energy, and that one can expect Vikna to be realised in this period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1660	The framework set by the Stortinget for Enova's business is clear. It's about Enova choosing the projects that produce the most energy per. the crown inserted. It is possible that the Progress Party wants to abandon that policy, but it has been the Storting's opinion. It also means that measures in central Norway will be assessed together with measures in the country. So I think it's an interesting discussion to see which signals we choose to pass on to Enova about the power situation in Middle Norway. But in that case, it requires the Storting to be in here. I would like to welcome several good renewable projects in the form of applications from Central Norway to Enova. The region can definitely do even more projects than we've seen so far. But I don't want – and I think that's understandable – to go into and deal with individual projects like the example that Lien took up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1669	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1672	I found reason to take the floor again, because at one moment we hear that Mid-Norway should be given priority, and that those funds are very relevant, and then we hear that we need to come up with more new projects. It's not that there are too few projects in central Norway that are the problem. The problem is that the framework conditions for implementing the projects are too poor. The councils were also involved in the story. Since I am a trained historian, I can take a little review of it – I feel so qualified for it. It started with the Worm Lange expansion, which is the only large petroleum project in mainland Norway that is built without its own power supply. Statnett said at the time – it was in the last growing-up period, so it has no responsibility for it – that this has to be resolved either with new supply or with network reinforcement. The fact that Statnett was not early enough out there and warned about it, of course, comes from the fact that Statnett, in his wildest imagination, could not assume that the bulk of the population, without the votes of the Advance Party, accepted the expansion of such a large power consumer without immediately supplying power. Since that decision was taken, Statnett has been ready. They have said that new supply is the very best in this region, and that is also what gives the sovereign best social economy. Then we come to Statnett's Winter Conference in 2005: a very difficult power situation will occur in central Norway. From then on, the whole Storting should be aware of this situation, and hopefully also all the central party councils that have run the OED after that time. 1 May 2006 Stoltenberg travels to Nord-Trøndelag and says that now we can just stick the spade in the ground for gas power plants. A year and a half before Åslaug Haga comes to Middle Norway and says that the power crisis should be resolved with renewable energy. If we could have provided Middle Norway with promises instead of force, we wouldn't have had any problem. The outside vikna doesn't get priority, they don't get support. We have, as my colleague Torbjørn Andersen pointed out, 7 TWh hydropower in the region that is not being realised, partly due to protection, partly because the builders have been sitting and waiting for green certification schemes, which the Government has promised for three and a half years. I often use to represent another colleague, Ola Borten Moe, from this pulpit. I'm going to do that today, too. He said we didn't get to where we should have come. It's some of the truest Borten Moe has said from this pulpit. Let me also underline that during the last three and a half years, the planned completion of the Fardal–Örskog line has been postponed by one year. I hope that we can release several postponements of this line, and that the oil and energy minister can give a signal to his bureaucracy that this line must be completed as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1689	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1707	When I have promoted this interpellation, it is for the Stortinge to have the chance to express its opinion on the regulation on the standard of manning, which can indicate much that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is now planning to adopt. The fact that Stortinget does not get the case for treatment is, of course, regrettable, but it is the result of the vast regulatory homes contained in the Energy Act. Before I say anything about the regulation itself, I will try to point a little bit to the challenges facing Norwegian online policy. The EU renewable directive will impose a strong increase in the production of renewable energy, which is, of course, good. This would primarily have to be developed as wind and hydropower. This expansion will be among the largest industrial investments Norway has ever made. In addition to the need for a sensible support regime for the development of this renewable energy, network access is an important bottleneck. In another case, Ot.prp. No 24 for 2008-2009 on the Energy Act, the Government has declared that they have solved part of this challenge by introducing a binding obligation. However, all actors in the power industry – such as those who have to be persuaded to understand that this has been resolved – believe that the obligation to connect in itself does not solve this challenge. But it will be exciting to see – cf. the previous debate – on any decision taken in accordance with Ot. pp. point 24 e.g. will lead to the realization of the development of Outer Victoria. There, OED's external offices have referred to the network connection as the main challenge. I wonder why it's not already done. After all, it is necessary to arrive at regimes that trigger network access to new renewable energy production while ensuring that the best socio-economic solutions are chosen and that costs do not end up in the local distribution networks — but there is much to suggest that they will. This is so far a completely unresolved issue that one can only hope that the Stortinget will be cleared up before any decisions are taken in connection with Ot.prp. No 24 for 2008-2009, in a month. The challenges of the phase-in of more renewable energy must also be addressed by what can be called a sub-optimally organised Norwegian grid industry. While in most large countries in Western Europe there are between one and ten distribution networks, in Norway there are more than 140. Of these, more than half have fewer than 5,000 customers, many have fewer than 1,000 customers. The financial system contributes to the maintenance of this structure, such as: was reinforced by decisions of the former Central Party Council Odd Roger Enoxen. Having 140 companies to operate the distribution network in a country with 4.5 million people is poor social economy, but there is also a poor consumer economy. Both society and consumers, especially in the smallest distribution networks, are losing weight in this organisation, which is believed to be the focus of the Centre Party. However, in view of the EU's renewable directive and the need for the production of new renewable energy, this organisation is also an obstacle to the good and rational development of the network in order to realise network access to new production. Manning standards or not are hardly essential in themselves for the restructuring of Norwegian distribution networks, but at least they will not contribute to increasing the will of mergers, all the time mergers not in the same way as today could lead to a more dynamic use of the workforce. The NVE’s introduction of the income framework also poses a challenge. In many cases it is directly unprofitable to merge, as mentioned earlier. But despite the reasonableness of the principles of the income framework system in our opinion, there are many challenges. One of the biggest players in the distribution network in my home state, the South-Trundellag, the energy company TronderEnergy, has, for example, a large part of its network along the coast. However, because they also operate networks in the inland municipalities, the average distance to the sea is so long that they do not get any additions to the income frameworks based on coastal climate at all, as other actors who operate networks in coastal climates get. Statnett also says that in order to carry out all the important tasks expected of them – securing the supply to Middle Norway, which we have talked about before today, establishing a stronger network in North Norway for more exports from there, and new export lines to Europe – they need more competence, a competence that could now be locked in emergency positions in Norwegian regional network companies. With the challenges I have pointed out above, it would be thought that both the Government, the NVE, the State Network, the State Power and all the other network and power operators have more important things to focus on than to introduce something that might be difficult to call anything other than mere state control of business operators. The objective of the regulation, claimed by government teams and NVE, shall be safer operation of the network. Then I ask myself: why not introduce even stricter operational safety and time requirements? Which company the line repairer or line builder who repairs or builds the web gets his pay from, I don't think the customers are very concerned about. I get many e-mails and telephones every year from chosen countries and beaches around, which indicate that they are the most concerned with the high level of network rental, the second being that the current has to come up. I have not received a single enquiry from voters who are concerned that the network installer who is hanging in the mast outside the door is employed in Hafslund or Infratek. But I have to assume that the Council of State has got, since he is so concerned about having this regulation introduced. The introduction of a standard of personnel, which the OED has sent at the hearing, will, for the vast majority of actors, require them to have so many employees at all times that they can handle a worst case scenario. Many Norwegian network companies, including in the districts, have built up entrepreneurship companies that do jobs on their own networks. This, of course, leads to a more dynamic and efficient exploitation of crew resources. But as I interpret the OED proposal, this will not be possible in the future, because those who are today customers of these entrepreneurship companies, in the future must have enough people employed to do all these tasks themselves. I have also noted that the opposition to this proposal by the industry team is unisoned, and that the only organisation that is a member of this change has many members and sub-organisations who do not want the introduction of a recruitment standard. First of all, there are those members who have tried to work under competitive conditions, who today want to continue with it, while those who have not tried it are against it. It should count something. However, if you wanted to adopt this standard, which I hope you will not, I strongly recommend to the Council of State to look at the possibility of attaching the norm to the group, i.e. the parent company, and not to the individual network. This will make the norm much easier to handle, it will allow for more efficient operation and it will make it more attractive to organise Norwegian network companies in larger units than today. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal for a regulation on manning standards would lead to a deterioration in the operating conditions of the network companies. It's hard to disagree with. There is a change virtually no one will have – a change that will lead to increased network rentals, especially in the districts, which should also worry the centre party. But it will also lead to a lower social economy in network operation. Knowing what major challenges all parts of the Norwegian power industry are facing, I think it would be more sensible to wait with this change that will worsen the operating conditions – or perhaps, at any rate, cancel the whole case – and, if necessary, introduce stricter operational safety and security requirements. Then I will end with my question: Will the Council consider scrapping the introduction of a new staffing code for Norwegian network companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1737	First of all, I would like to make a comment on the claim in the interpellation that there are many unresolved issues about future Norwegian online policy. I presented Ot.prp on 17 April. No 62 for 2008-2009 on amendments to the Energy Act. I believe that that proposal just clarifies Norwegian online policy. Through the proposal, I will strengthen the right of small and wind power to networks, improve security of supply by reducing the risk of regional imbalances in the power system and reducing regional price differences on networks and electricity. At the same time, it was also announced that we would look at a comprehensive regulation of the network to ensure that the regulation is appropriate in terms of optimising incentives for investment and efficient operation, which Lien was just concerned about, and we would look at the possibility of equal network rental across the country, which I do not know if the representative Lien is concerned about, but which in any case is something I am concerned about. The government is concerned about the framework conditions for Norwegian network companies. As manager and owner of one of the country's most important infrastructures, this industry is doing a very important job. At the same time, it is important to remember the network activities in Norway operated as monopolies in each supply area. In order to avoid some network companies taking advantage of their monopoly position, it is important that the authorities have control over the activities of companies. Networking companies are therefore regulated by the authorities through, inter alia: the Energy Act, Prescriptions and Concessions. The regulation of network activities expresses the requirements and expectations of the authorities of the transmission system companies and sets out the conditions under which the transmission system operators must comply. Manning and competence requirements are not a new element in the regulation of the transmission system companies. The Energy Act requires concession to build and operate electrical installations. The preparatory work shows that the background to the concession obligation, inter alia: there is a public need to control the operation of such facilities in terms of responsibilities and maintenance, i.e. in current legislation. It is therefore necessary to impose on the actual operator of the installation the concession obligation and the concession and associated conditions. The central assessment theme is about the concession holder, which can put down operational tasks and continue to be considered as the real operator of the facility. It is necessary to make a concrete assessment of the individual structural changes in order to determine whether the provision has been complied with. The central elements of the assessment are the number and the tasks that are set aside. Both in 2001 and 2006 the size covered the scope for staffing of concessionaires in the field of power distribution. In both rounds it was clarified that it was not sufficient for the concessionaire to discharge purely formal and financial responsibility for the business. The draft regulation, which has now been at the hearing – and it is not the draft of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, it is the NVE’s draft, which was clarified by the Ministry when it was sent – clarifies the requirement for ‘to drive’ in the Energy Act. The draft states first that all concessionaires shall have their own crew with the necessary competence for day-to-day management, technical operation and practical implementation of the tasks arising from the concessions. This is proposed to apply to both production companies and transmission system companies. In addition, the proportion of the concessionaire’s tasks in different areas that must be carried out by its own employees has been more specifically defined for the transmission companies. These requirements have been formulated in such a way that the transmission system companies must have their own staff to ‘even carry out the fullest part of their tasks’, ‘even to carry out the most central tasks’ and ‘to serve a substantial part of’ specific tasks. The draft regulation is, as I mentioned, developed by the NVE and was sent at the hearing of the Ministry on 13 November 2008 without any changes being made to it. It was clarified that the Ministry had not taken a position on the draft regulation as designed by NVE. The hearing period expired on 6 February 2009 and the Ministry received a number of consultation opinions on that draft regulation. The industry, led by EBL, believes that the concessionaire himself has to decide his own organisation within the relatively broad framework of the law today. It is stated that crew requirements are not a guarantee of good preparedness. According to EBL, manning requirements may also lead to unclear responsibilities between authorities and concessionaries. A number of network carriers have recently promoted a common proposal for approximation of regulations. The companies propose a regulation that sets out clear requirements for the documentation of the network operators on how the preparedness is to be carried out. There are proposed documentation requirements for, inter alia: local knowledge, development of competences, availability of personnel, preparedness arrangements, etc. EL & IT The Federation on the other hand, it can be said, claims that the income framework rewards network companies that are postponing services and that service outsourcing does not lead to lower costs for society. Furthermore, the association claims that all performing functions are performed less poorly when the tasks are performed by contracted actors. Both the hearing bodies that want the regulation and those who believe it to be superfluous or directly unlucky refer to security of supply, preparedness and economic efficiency as the main argument for their view. Those who want the regulation believe that the outsourcing of services leads to confusion of competence, resulting in the disappearance of local knowledge, the use of less resources for maintenance, and higher network rentals for customers. Trailers also believe that the standby can be impaired without such a requirement, as fitters to carry out the fixation are not in the area at all times. In the case of large power outages several locations at the same time, e.g. in the event of extreme weather, contractors may have difficulty placing sufficient numbers of fitters to all the network companies with which they have agreed. In addition, some of the perceptions are that service outsourcing weakens the control of the concession authorities, as the requirements of the law and the concessions are directed only at concessionaries and not at hired contractors. On the other hand, the opponents of the regulation believe that entrepreneurship creates a wider environment of competence and that the use of entrepreneurs leads to more people being involved in an emergency situation. If there is a requirement for the principal importance of the tasks to be carried out by its own employees in all companies, there are no longer any entrepreneurship companies that can be used in exceptional situations. Opponents also believe that service outsourcing makes operations more efficient. Several have suggested that the self-sufficiency requirement can be met if all the tasks of the network operator are ensured by long-term agreements within a group, with other concessionaires or with local companies that ensure stable and effective competence in the concession area. In addition to long-term agreements, authorities may also impose other functional requirements, such as requirements for contingency plans, vulnerability analyses and repair preparedness. It may also be required that special functions, such as: Operations centres shall be staffed with their own staff. Functional requirements together with, or instead of, absolute manning requirements are aspects that we are now looking at in the work on any regulation. In the work we have also looked to our Nordic neighbours and how they have chosen to design the law in terms of competence and staffing. Neither Denmark, Finland or Sweden is required to have a specific crew in the network companies. In 2007, Denmark carried out an investigation into security of supply, and the recommendation was that no physical or technical requirements should be imposed, nor should compensation schemes be developed for interruptions. However, the quality of interruption and delivery statistics are closely followed by the authorities. In Sweden, a separate statement of the concessionaire’s organisation must be attached to the application for a concession. It is, however, in the case of access to third-party services, but it is necessary to explain in the case of a concession application how contractual arrangements have ensured that tasks are carried out. In Finland, the transmission system companies are required to have what they call ‘sufficient staff’ and ‘in their service an operator that meets the eligibility requirements’. [[...]] The Finnish Energy Market Agency has provided an explanation of what is contained in ‘sufficient personnel’. They indicate that purchases of services from third parties are permitted to a significant extent. The necessary control-command shall be taken into account, inter alia: by the fact that the network agreement between the network company and the service provider is one of the areas under control in the event of significant exclusion of services. I record that this case has a great interest in the industry, and it is absolutely understandable that this is the case. As several hearing bodies have pointed out, industry is facing several major challenges in time, especially in terms of investment. Any regulation on competence and manning requirements is not intended to have to put chains in the wheels for the efficient and appropriate organisation of the network companies. No matter how a new regulation is designed, extensive access to the purchase of third-party services will still be open. I am asking for an understanding that I cannot say anything more specific about this matter at this time. The draft regulation has been at the hearing, and we are now evaluating, together with the NVE, the different input we have received. The scope of the consultation and the resistance to the draft regulation underline the importance of the ministry conducting a thorough review and assessment of all aspects of the matter, and I have the ambition to do so in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1782	I'm happier than I thought I'd picked up this interpellation, because I note that the Council of State has apparently not concluded. And I'm very happy about that. In the case of Ot.prp. No 24 for 2008-2009, in a way, it is a little symptomatic, because the Government often says that this has solved it – it also applies to aid schemes for investment in new renewable energy – but it does not fully persuade the industry to agree that it has it. That's a little bit of a case this time as well. In terms of network leasing, more like web rental, in Norway, I think the Council of State may be hesitant enough to acknowledge that for many periods in this house, the party to which he belongs, and the party to which I belong, have been champions of a balancing system. It is that the Progress Party is for a more similar web rental throughout the country, but we are primarily occupied by a lower network rental across the country. But then to the matter. Governments are talking about responsibilities. This is not about liability, because the responsibility for the network is to be in order, we agree that it must be with the concession holder. We also agree that the concession holder must have employees in his own organisation who have a satisfactory competence to operate the network. The question is how far to extend the requirement for contingency plans, penalties for interruptions, etc. We are in complete agreement here. And, not least, the requirement that you have to be competent enough to perform a proper order role, we also agree. So, for skills confusion, as the EL & IT Association talks about. Then I think like that: if you work in a company with 800-900 customers – a lot of our operators do – you probably don't have a lot of opportunities in one year, two years, or maybe five years to work with them. On the other hand, if you're an entrepreneur who works in a larger area, I think there's a greater chance that you'll be good at creating. To the argument that during periods of extreme violence there could be a manning problem, a somewhat rhetorical question might arise: Does this regulation lead to more net fitters in Norway? It doesn't – as far as I can see. This only leads to the need to lock this in a given employee position. The argument that you get access to purchase services in the future as well, I have read – but who is going to buy these services? If everyone is required to have enough people to do the whole job themselves, it doesn't help that the same people are allowed to hire out labour, because no one can buy it. I'm happy for what's said, but I could imagine asking the Council of State about the following: It seemed like he was positive to this with the group model. In this regard, I would like to get an answer as to whether he wants to put this requirement at group level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1799	It is good that the representative Lien is pleased with what was said by me about the process around this. And it's quite frankly reported – as it should of course be from this pulpit – when I say that I have a process on it and that the conclusion is not drawn. In addition to that, I perceived that what appeared in the second post of the representative, Lien, in and of itself, is an argument for the views that were also expressed in his first post. And I think that in my post I presented relatively detailed information on the various aspects of this matter, as it has appeared in the hearings, and as I believe in different ways and with different input, contributes and is important for a conclusion on this matter. From this point of view, I would like to say that I think it is useful to have a debate on this issue here in Stortinget, as we have now. And of course, I also want to include the recordings that have been made here, in the process that I'm going to have about this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1813	First of all, I have some comments on this with new power generation and network access. The proposal presented by the Government to the Stortinget – which is now under consideration – on network connectivity for new power generation, I think we need to recognise is the very foundation for triggering actual investment in new production in Norway. If this obligation had not been fulfilled, I think it would have been far more difficult to get investment triggered, regardless of support schemes, green certificates – or whatever. It is the foundation for new production that is being put through the issue under consideration in the Storting and that will be joined, because it concerns network connectivity obligations for new production – an important basis and an important foundation. So for the interpolation itself. I am perhaps somewhat surprised that it was raised, because it is quite – let's say – technically fixed and a little outside this house's area of responsibility right now. I am very pleased that we have a government that exercises the express will of the Storting by implementing the Storting's clear clarifications of something that – I think – is perceived by everyone as an important area of society, precisely this with the production, placing on the market and distribution of power. The starting point for the interpellation and its basis dates back to 2001, perhaps further back. Then there was a very clear opinion in Stortinget that the person who received the online concession would manage the construction and ownership relationship, but also the operating conditions. The drive ratio was in the city council. There is also an obligation in relation to the composition of the competence of the company. It was very clearly clarified that time. In 2006 – during this ageing period – we clarified it once again in the Innst. O. No 68 for 2005-2006: ‘The majority refers to the assumption by the Ministry of Proposition that operators with a concession under the Energy Act shall have their own employees, who have all the necessary competence to manage their obligations under law, regulation, concessions and agreements.’;» That's what was clarified that time. Asking the Council of State to ignore the expressed will of the majority of the population is not a matter of much respect. Then there would have been an advantage to other procedures. I am aware that at an earlier stage, the Progress Party has stated that the conversion of electrical energy is like selling bread and milk in a standard grocery store. I'm not going to adjudicate to Lien exactly that attitude. I think we're in agreement here, that the electricity grid may be one of society's most important and critical infrastructures. In this case, it is about who is going to have a concession, who is going to have rights to transport electricity in Norway – i.e. in a way who is going to own and have a relationship with the most important infrastructure we have, and which obligations are incumbent on the person who is going to carry out such work on behalf of society. That's what this is about. The current regulatory work must have its origin in what the Storting has expressed during that period, but it must also be maintained through the legal basis that lies there. From a security of supply point of view, competence and staffing — at least its availability — are undoubtedly an important factor. We therefore believe that the concession holder, who is responsible for distributing the electricity, is the one to be demanded. That is what the law states, and that is what the Council of State, the Government – and the regulatory work – must derive and underline. It would be a violation of the law to weaken the liability of the network operator that has a concession. It is the opinion of the majority, and that is the basis on which the regulations must be based. I am aware that the Progress Party really wants a society without regulation. They would like to suggest this, even if they turn around a little because of how society responds to the different needs for regulation or one. There is now a law on treatment in Stortinget. You can freely propose to remove the requirement there today. You may also propose – if desired by the Progress Party – that significant structuralisations be carried out in the industry. You can even suggest that a state company be given all responsibility. Yeah, it's really up to the Progress Party to do that, but then they have to show the will to do it concretely and not just through words and debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1842	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1845	This is really a pretty big and interesting case. After listening to the debate, I'm actually glad that this interpellation has traveled. I am not sure whether those who have missed a clarification, at this moment have reason to feel so much more reassured after hearing the Council of State and, in particular, the Chief Spokesman of the Workers' Party in this matter. It is quite correct that if we are to succeed in developing new renewable energy, the development process must go parallel and hand in hand with network development. There is really no network policy as such in Norway today, and that is very regrettable. All that some people have said today with weighty and sloppy security in this debate suggests that all the listening traits have been put into one basket, namely that they have listened to what the NVE thinks and feel about these issues. I think that if we had made contact with the 140 network companies we have in the country, and asked some questions about what they feel about organisation and follow-up, the approach would have been quite different. I don't think any of the existing online companies we have in Norway – which is today on three levels, which is at least one level too much – appreciate the kind of retail management we have, and which we are witnessing today, is being exercised by the ministry and in the form of the services that the NVE performs. Because we are witnessing a detailed management without parallel in Norwegian administration, which does not help to speed up the clarification of how to develop new renewable energy through the increased development of networks in Norway. I strongly recommend to the Ministry, when making the final conclusion, to listen at least as much to the existing network companies that have daily contact with the EL & IT Association. I think there is every reason to ask questions about who will affect future developments when this new network policy is to be developed in our dear fatherland. I actually have the impression that what the government, or at least parts of the government, wants, is to go back to the time before 1990 – and it didn't look particularly beautiful that time. After 1990, the first ten years of the Energy Act, there was a great deal of time for the division of power plants, and entrepreneurial activities and consulting activities were dissociated and put off for competition. From the year 2000, this market has been working better and better. There is today a lot of competition among highly competent companies – I stress very competent companies – about missions in the network sector. This competition actually results in efficient network companies and fast service, and for the subscribers – if we are to take the break of having them in the back of our mind – this has resulted in more reasonable network rental, while security of supply must be regarded as very, very good as it is today. The fact that the NVE seemed very concerned that the consultants and the entrepreneurs who have acquired knowledge to carry out their functions are not sufficiently employed in the online companies, I do not think we can pay much attention in today's debate. I think that the question of what is a socially rational way to pursue this kind of policy needs to be given crucial importance in the future network policy that we have a strong need to develop in Norway. Hopefully, the organisation of Norwegian energy supply has come to stay. It works, as I have said, well, no matter what the representatives of the government parties may think about this. Intensification of the ability of network operators to determine their own mode of operation is directly counter-commercial and will provide higher network rentals and a number of less efficient operations very quickly. As I've been about, in that case, the only ones that will benefit from this type of scheme are a small selection of members of the EL & IT Association – and this is not a development that Norwegian online customers have any reason to applaud. Therefore, my call is: put the ideas that have been put forward in this case. If not, we are in a situation where today's statements – both from Åslaug Haga and from Ola Borten Moe – get even more a cross of truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1858	I think, in principle, that the input of the Council of State was so reflective and clear that one has not pre-concluded here, that the debate could actually have ended after the initial round. But then I hear some of the other voices from the red-green parties, and then I see that here there is absolutely a need to support the views of the Council of State and not the views of the EL & IT Association and Terje Aasland in this matter. Electricity networks are very important infrastructure for society. Without energy, society does not work, and without infrastructure for transport and energy, the energy does not reach those who are going to use it. But it's not entirely irrelevant to compare it with the sale of milk and bread, because without food and drink neither does society. So everything is important for things to work. I fully agree that the grid is the foundation, but calling it the odelsting proposition that the government has presented, as the great solution to today's challenges, is basically just Terje Aasland and some other red-green politicians who believe is a fact. I registered that the Swedish Energy Companies Association sent out a press release when the odelstingsproposition was presented, and said that it does not represent a change of pace in Norwegian web policy, nor does it give the vision that they thought Stortinget had asked for in a previous case. I also see that the Odelstingsproposition does not solve the problems of renewable energy, because the obligation of connectivity, which Terje Aasland boasted, has not been clarified in relation to neither the income framework nor the cost allocation as such. It's only mentioned as a problem, but no solution has been presented. Thus, the Government has not moved a step further. The same applies with regard to foreign exchange. We know that internally in the Council of State's party there are very divided opinions about whether or not to have cables abroad. Everyone also knows that in the power industry it is that if there is no chance of selling the power at a price that makes money, one will not build new projects either. Therefore, such clarifications would be very welcome, to a greater extent than the Government was able to present. I also reported that the Council of State was pleased that one was going to investigate having one online rental price in Norway, and the Council of State might be pleased with that. But I also record that this investigation should not start until this government period is over. As a result, this is unlikely to be realized – as unlikely as the proposal of the Centre Party for the previous period on stricter regulation of the hydroelectric power markets would be implemented. It hasn't been pulled out by this government either, and it's just as good. As far as web policy is concerned, Terje Aasland was a little surprised that there will be an interplay on this, because this has more or less been the responsibility of the Stortinget, so he should be interpreted correctly. But I would say that network policy is most of our responsibility, even though the practical implementation has been delegated to the NVE with the Oil and Energy Department that is overarching. When we bring this up for debate, it should not surprise Terje Aasland at all, for one thing is that the Storting is delegating powers, but when the Storting feels that the powers are being abused, and that one goes much further than what was intended, one must absolutely expect the Storing to react. This regulation, which the Government has now assessed, considers at least the Progress Party to be far from the mandate given by the Storting. So a person here experiences an unreasonable detailed management of the network companies. We are not talking about removing liability, as Terje Aasland is trying to give the impression, but we are talking about how to carry out the tasks in the network companies in the best possible way to discharge the responsibility that everyone agrees on for the network companies. But I am so happy to hear the statements of the Council of State, because I think it confirms that it is largely just the central management of the EL & IT Association and Terje Aasland that stands for the line and the signals that originally came. It is true that almost everyone who has spoken at local level in the EL & IT Association has opposed what the EL & IT Association and Terje Aasland argue about in this case. Finally, Terje Aasland has made several mark-ups by promulgating an ideology from the Progress Party that the Progress Party itself does not have. I think the representative of Aasland should grow up in terms of the way he argues, when he claims what the Progress Party stands for. He would rather deal with the policy of the Progress Party rather than dictate a policy and gloat over it. It does not contribute to a good political atmosphere or, at least, to discuss the solutions that should underpin the network policy that you should pursue in Norway. You have to have regulations, you have to be responsible, but that does not mean that the EL & IT Association will have to dictate how the Stortinget will deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1878	The next two speakers, representatives Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and Erling Sande, seem to be on the list of speakers by mistake. So we move on to the interpellant, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1882	I'm sorry, there fell ten minutes quite quickly out. Let me start with some repetitions. It is clear that not everyone got it completely in the first place. We are not against a requirement for Norwegian concessionaires to have competence in the operation of the electricity network. Such a requirement of competence must ensure a safe and sound order role. This does not necessarily mean that one must demand that everything that is to be done in a network company be done by people who receive their pay slip from the same company. We have tried to point out that if death and life are to be carried out – if it is a parliamentary expression – then at least these requirements must be set at group level. This is about having a wide range of challenges and major tasks ahead of us in Norwegian online policy. It is both about how we can operate the network we have today more rationally and at a lower price in Norwegian districts, and it is about massive network expansions – not only to ensure today's power supply, but also to realise both the production and not least the export of new renewable energy. Then we have to ask ourselves how we can make the best use of the installation skills and the other online professional skills we have in Norway for society. In any case, I think that it is not necessarily the best way to make the best use of this competence by locking up the competence of the online companies, and by only working in the company in which you are actually employed. I also repeat what I said about not building competence on restoring deliveries by locking employees in a company with perhaps 1,000 customers. You do that by letting the construction companies work in larger districts. I also repeat that I am pleased that we took this debate. I note that the agreement between the Centre Party and the Advance Party is close, as it is often in force policy issues – and that the distance between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party is also great this time. It is often in power policy issues. Therefore, I hope that the representative of Terje Aasland will take a long and well-deserved holiday, and that the Council of State will take good time and not make any rash decisions in this matter, which he probably also indicated his intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1893	The President will believe that the expression "on death and life" may pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1896	I am convinced that the representative of Aasland deserves a vacation not so long, but I do not agree that the post he made does not contain any relevant arguments in relation to this case. As I also said in my post, these are just arguments that we're going to evaluate in time to come. Otherwise, the debate has two openings. One goes into the matter in the interpellation. In addition, there is a debate with some general input into energy and network policy – the last we come back to when the committee has addressed the odelstingsproposition that I have presented to the Stortinget. I believe it to be a natural extension of these issues in the debate that Odelstinget will then have. With that – thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1905	With that, there's case no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1911	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e1936	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Storting meeting on 5 May 2009 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e2018	During the debate, Torbjørn Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote an action plan with concrete measures to address a supply crisis in the power supply to Trøndelag and Møre and Romesdal, and to present it to the Stortinget during the spring 2009 season.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e2039	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-07.ana.ud837e2164	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
