ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e67	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e74	We have had this debate in part already in Stortinget in connection with a proposal from the Left, so I shall limit the debate as far as possible. But some words are in their place anyway. The proposal proposes amendments to the Central Bank Act. It is proposed to establish accounting and accounting rules for the Bank, to establish an external audit system and to require internal audit. Furthermore, it is proposed to legislate the responsibilities of the Board of Supervisors and the Governing Council for supervision and control. The Committee agrees with most of the Ministry’s proposals, not least that the governance and control structure of the Bank of Norway must be developed in line with best international practice and recognised principles of good business management and good central bank management. Furthermore, the Committee considers that a governance structure for the capital management of the highest international class, with clear mandates and roles, close follow-up and control, and good public reporting procedures – and I stress this – is a necessary premise to ensure broad trust in the management message itself. Then there have been questions – and this is where the divergence comes – about who will be in charge of the audit. The majority, in line with the recommendations of the Representation and Government, are in favour of getting an external auditor, and of course it should be one who has broad competence in managing the type of fund we are talking about here for a large part. We have also noticed that the National Audit Office has written letters both to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and to the Financial Committee, expressing their desire for the audit mission. When the majority have not gone into that arrangement, it is probably related to the Riksrevision at present. does not have the necessary competence. In this case, they have to get it from the outside, and then there is a question of whether there is something better than an audit by those companies that actually have something to compare with and that can not least contribute to a proper valuation. We also notice that this is the same scheme that the Swedish National Social Security Fund has, and that the National Audit Office in its time recommended for that fund. However, the Riksrevision is equally fully responsible for carrying out the administrative audit of the Minister of Finance’s exercise of authority against the Bank of Norway and for reviewing the value of the government accounts on the State pension fund — Foreign. We stress the importance of both of these tasks being carried out with high quality, and assume that the Riksaudition will still have full access to the information from both the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway which the Riksaudition itself considers necessary in these cases in order to be able to satisfactorily solve its mission. Finally, it should be noted that an overall committee considers it appropriate for the Ministry to highlight more closely the advantages and disadvantages of the current organisation of the operational management responsibilities of the Bank of Norway in the course of next year, compared with a management body headed by a board directly appointed by the Ministry of Finance. We have a system, and it has worked. But there is also a good reason at regular intervals to see if this is an arrangement we're going to have for the future, and that mission to the Government is therefore an overall committee behind it. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e93	I will not repeat what the rapporteur has stated in an excellent manner. I just want to show that we have debated this matter earlier this week in connection with St.meld. No 20 for 2008-2009 and the draft document from the Left. However, I would like to make some comments on the specific matter, and I would also like to point out that the Financial Committee has concluded its own consultation with the Norwegian Bank on this matter and received a clear feedback that they do not have counter-representations to the proposed changes. I would also like to point out that during the hearing they supported the Government's proposal that today's system, where the representative appoints a central bank auditor who is formally employed by the bank, be abolished. So over to what made me want to take the floor, and that's that there's a different view on the issue of external audit changes, where the Progress Party and the Left have comments and proposals that the Riksaudition should be responsible for the audit. Here I want to light up the history a little bit. The size has chosen to legislate that the representation of the Bank of Norway shall be the supervisory board of the central bank. It is central, in my view, that the body responsible for auditing the accounts has the right to appoint the statutory auditor and also has the right to require that the statutory auditor’s mission be carried out. Furthermore, the Central Bank Act provides for the same representation to oversee the operation of the Bank, to monitor compliance with the rules governing the Bank's operations, and to establish the accounts of the Bank last but not least. For me, it seems unnatural that the Riksrevision should review both the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Stortinget, and at the same time carry out audit tasks. In my opinion, it is in principle a matter of concern and not correct that the department should give a mandate to its ‘own’ auditor. If this isn't unfortunate, I don't know. I would also like to point out that the Swedish Social Security Fund, which is responsible for the operational part of the management of the State pension fund – Norway, has the same system with externally elected auditor. When it was established as a special-law company, Stortinget chose to transfer the audit responsibility from the Riksauditionen to the externally selected auditor. Finally, I would like to refer to the Riksrevision's letter to the Ministry of Finance on 15 March 1984, where the Riksrevision was in favour of an arrangement with an external auditor in its hearing opinion to today's central bank law. That is to say, the proposed audit regime is in line with what the Riksrevision raised at that time. In concrete terms, the Riksrevision states that it is assumed that the audit at the Bank of Norway should be organised in the same way as for the other central banks. For these, an externally-elected auditor system is responsible for the audit. And then my question is, what is so fundamentally different? Finally, I would recommend Odelstinget to support the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e110	Let me first of all thank the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. The Progress Party considers it essential that the governance structure of the capital management of the Bank of Norway is of the highest international class with clear mandates and clear roles, close follow-up and control, and good public reporting procedures. This is absolutely necessary to ensure broad confidence in the management model. The Progress Party therefore supports most of the legislative amendments proposed by the Government in this proposition. The current system of auditors, which appoints a central bank auditor formally employed by the bank, does not meet the requirements referred to above and the Progress Party agrees that this system should be terminated. However, the Progress Party does not share the view of the majority that the audit of the Bank of Norway should be carried out by an external auditor. On the contrary, we believe that the Riksrevision as a competent body should take over the audit of the bank. In this context, Section 9 of the National Audit Act states that the Riksrevision is responsible for the audit of the national accounts and all state funds. Since the major part of the State’s capital is managed by the Bank of Norway, the Progress Party considers that an overall audit mechanism under the National Audit Office will best contribute to the necessary understanding, understanding and reporting to the contracting entity. The National Audit Office, as the auditor responsible for Norway’s Bank and the State pension fund abroad, will provide links to the international financial auditing expertise similar to the current system of the Bank of Norway. The Progress Party believes that such a mechanism would better safeguard the ability of the Stortinge to verify that the Bank's operations are carried out in accordance with the decisions and assumptions of the Stortinge. I shall therefore refer to proposal No. 1, which the Progress Party is promoting together with the Left. I would like to point out that there is an error in the title of the proposal. It reads ‘New Section 30 shall be replaced’. It shall read: ‘New Paragraph 30(a) shall be replaced by the following:’. I have been told to notify them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e125	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e128	I also have just a few comments. I refer you to the debate in Stortinget on this topic, and I thank the case rapporteur for both good work on the vote and for the article, which I agree with. I just have a few comments from the Right-hand side. We consider what is now being presented as a continuation of the modernisation work that has taken place both under this and under the previous government. However, we are promoting a concrete proposal to appoint a separate board of State pension funds – abroad. We believe that the size of the fund implies that there should be a separate board of the fund that acquires the appropriate or appropriate competence of its board. We believe that the tasks are so different that it would be beneficial to have a government of the State pension fund – abroad. The right takes up with the Left the question of the appointment policy of the representative. Here it is not natural to promote a proposal, as it is the Stortinge that appoints the representative. However, we point out that today’s appointment practices may mean that the representation does not acquire the overall and necessary competence to which the tasks of the representative should be assigned. Since it is the individual party group that appoints its members, we have no guarantee that overall representation will have the competence that it should have. We therefore warn that this should be discussed by the Stortinge when members of the Bureau are to be appointed in the next round, in order to assess, where appropriate, whether there should be another practice of appointment. With this, I will address the proposal that the Right makes together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e139	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e142	I won't say that much. I just want to refer to the debate we had earlier and refer to what the rapporteur was about, namely that the Riksrevision has an independent opportunity to go into and review the administration and is responsible for it, on behalf of us. After all, the national audit has carried out an administrative audit for a few years at the latest, in the past or in the past, relating to parts of the management and investment strategy. I would like to extend my warmest welcome to the Riksrevision – I think it is positive – to do a job at regular intervals in relation to seeing all the recordings we make and the legislation we lay down with regard to the State pension fund, and that they follow up the responsibility if they think there is a need for it. When it comes to the proposal from the Right and the Left, I just want to say that I think it's a little bit strange. We have said that we should have a discussion in the future about the structure and management in general. It was in the discussion we had about the State pension fund. However, setting up two boards to sit over the same body – Norway’s Bank – and focusing on two different things, so that the director of Norway’s Bank will deal with two different boards in different matters, I think it’s a strange proposal, and it’s going to be unfair. However, we have a good opportunity to discuss widely and in a broad sense how we can ensure that the pension fund under the Bank of Norway is operated in the best possible way over time and how it should happen as the pension fund grows larger and larger. It is a task of a very different character than when Norway’s Bank took over responsibility in the 1990s. So I want that discussion we're going to have in the time that's coming, just like we did in the pension fund debate before. But I think what Jan Tore Sanner is proposing on behalf of the Right and the Left is a strange proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e149	I can hardly take on the task of bringing something new into the debate that has not been affected in the past, either by the case rapporteur – which I think was an excellent way through the majority's view of the Government's proposal – or by the speakers who have spoken on behalf of the government parties. But it is worth noting that at most of the points in this case there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget. First, I would like to confirm the desire of an overall committee to examine the argument why the management of the State pension fund – abroad has been added to the Bank of Norway. I think it's reasonable and necessary to do that. We have good experience in organizing work with the State pension fund as they do. We have good experience of the management of the fund by the Bank of Norway, but we must always ensure that we justify the main choices made with regard to the fund and in such a way that there is maximum ownership of its organisation. I look forward to being able to present an assessment of these questions at a later stage. So to the two questions where there's a disagreement in the committee. One is about who is going to be the external auditor of the Bank of Norway. The Progress Party and the Left have proposed the Riksrevision. The background to promoting this case is that we see that there is a demanding organisation in terms of supervision, control and audit for the Bank of Norway, and that there has been a need to clarify and clarify what are the different responsibilities – but also to ensure that an external auditor is in place. There is a broad consensus that you cannot have an accountant for the Bank of Norway who is employed by the Bank of Norway. What I understand is the weakness of the proposal to entrust the Riksaudition with the task of being the external auditor of the Bank of Norway and then having audit responsibility with regard to the administrative audit of the Ministry of Finance, is that the proposers forget that it is a representative of the Bank of Norway that is responsible for the supervision of the Bank of Norway – it is provided for in the Basic Law § 75 c, if I do not remember completely wrong, that one should have that kind of supervision – and it gives unclear views on what the role of the representativeship is, is opposed to the role of the Riksaudition, for the Riksaudition is also the body of Storting. That is why I believe it is important to strengthen the role of representation by stressing their audit responsibilities as we now organise them. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in Odelstinget on this matter. So to the question of the board and having two governors in an institution. Here I agree with the representative Holmås, who has been involved in this. It also has many others. I think it's very demanding to have two equal boards for different business together in one institution. That is why this has not been promoted. It is important and appropriate to ensure that the Governing Council has the necessary competence to carry out this task. They also relate to external competence in order to make the job proper. I'm not going to interfere in how Stortinget appoints the representation – or what you put the emphasis on when you put together the representation. But the article by Jan Tore Sanner just underlines that the representativeness is the body of Storting, a body that supervises the Bank of Norway, with the background of a mandate given in the Constitution. I guess it also underlines the dilemma if you want the National Auditor to be an external auditor on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e164	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 853]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e181	In this proposal, proposals are being made for new legisla tions and changes in a number of financial market laws. Firstly, a new feature of the Mutual Fund Act is proposed which opens up the merger of unit trusts. Furthermore, amendments to the Insurance Act are proposed, with a view to improving competition in the market for freelances, pension capital certificates and individual pension contracts. A change in the accounting law is also proposed, which implies that listed companies that do not draw up consolidated accounts shall be required to draw up annual accounts in accordance with international accounting standards. Furthermore, it is proposed to include in the Central Bank Act and the Banking Insurance Act a clarification that the requirement of Section 45 of the Financial Contracts Act on the consent of borrowers if the loan claim is pledged or disposed of shall not apply when the loan claim is pledged or disposed of to the Bank of Norway and the Banks Insurance Fund. Some technical changes are proposed in Chapter 6 of the Securities Fund Act. Furthermore, a technical amendment is proposed in the Entrepreneurship Pensions Act and the Income Pensions Act to ensure that there is consistency between the obligations of the enterprise to establish a pension scheme under the compulsory service pension law and the existing Entrepreneurship Pensions Act and the Post-Investment Pensions Act to establish a pension scheme. At the request of the Banking Authority, it is proposed that the credit supervision should change the name of the Financial Supervisory Authority in order to better reflect the supervisory activity, since the supervision covers both banking, insurance and securities activities. There is broad consensus in the Committee and all the decisions are unanimous, but there are some comments where there are some differences between opposition and position in one note, and between the Progress Party and the rest of the other. The first note applies to Chapter 2, aggregation of unit trusts. There is an overall opposition point to the fact that there has been a long time to bring about this change in law, and that one is satisfied with and pleased that legislative proposals have now been put forward. One also wants it to apply as quickly as practicable. The position hasn't changed, but I'm assuming that someone in every respect reads that this is a common opposition, and that one wants this to happen as quickly as possible. It's mainly because the industry is impatient, and one wants to get this in place. Then there's a note in chapter 8. The note covers this by renaming, from the Credit Authority to the Financial Supervisory Authority. The whole committee agrees on this, but what you disagree about here might be considered a little trifle. That's what's going on at the cost of this. The manager of the case sent a letter to the Ministry of Finance asking for an overview of how much this change in name costs in dollars and cents. One response is that ‘the cost of renaming is therefore not significant’. What is pointed out is that the change of name is to take place at the same time as supervision moves, and therefore there is no significant cost. However, it would have been neat and easy to get a confirmation of what this costs. When the Ministry of Finance doesn't want to tell us what this costs in dollars and dollars, there may be two things. One thing could be that the Ministry of Finance does not have an overview of what it costs. Of course, the other thing is that you don't want to go out and inform the Storting about it. However, the progress party has allowed itself to write a note that we are somewhat in doubt as to what the ‘not significant’ term means in dollars and cents, but we assume that the cost of the name change should not exceed 1 million. kr. So this isn't the multiples, the other parties, and we're still a little bit in doubt what the notion of "not significant" means. Means five million. Do you really want to delete this item? Means 10 million. Do you really want to delete this item? It might be a good idea to clarify it. In all respects, the whole Committee is meeting on these decisions, and there are therefore only two points that distinguish the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e202	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 855]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e219	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those who have to sign up for the number list in addition to the time allocated will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's like a confession.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e230	This legislative proposal and the position of the Financial Committee on the forms of capital and of organisation in the savings bank sector that we are now dealing with in Odelstinget is important, and it has been a long-standing case. The main thrust of the bill is the inclusion of three new chapters in the Financial Activities Act, on savings banks and financial institutions not organised in the form of limited liability companies. The modernised legislation relates respectively to capital ratios and certificates of basic funds, structural and business changes and financial and savings banking foundations. The amendments have been through a long and thorough process. It builds, among other things, on the input from the Framework Conditions Committee set up by the Reserve Bank Association and subsequently by the Banking Law Commission, which was issued in December 2008. It is also part of the story that in the spring of 2008 there was a proposal for a solution, not least with regard to the dilution effect, which was drawn from the objections raised in the consultation round – among others. the objections were that the proposed dividend fraction scheme could seem complicated. In other words, what is now being promoted by the Government has been the subject of a very comprehensive process, in which the savings banking sector itself has made constructive contributions. The legislative proposal focuses on ensuring the continuation of traditional savings banks and basic bank certificates as the main models in the savings banking sector. In line with the Soria-Moria Declaration, the Government has been concerned, inter alia, with: savings banks shall have framework conditions for certificates of basic funds which make this appear to be realistic alternatives to shares. From savings banking teams, there is a general reference to the need to develop legislation on basic funds certificates, so that the capital instrument is better suited to raising capital for savings banks in need of new equity, either as a basis for or further development of activities. At the same time, it shall remain possible to convert a savings bank into a savings bank. A number of amendments are proposed which will help to make current basic fund certificates competitive with shares. The proposals of the Banking Law Commission have been widely accepted and the Ministry has tightened up the proposal on some points in the current proposal. This applies, inter alia, to: the ability of the credit supervision to intervene, procedures for notifying and authorising obligations in relation to the size of the total dividend component. One objective of the amendments, as mentioned earlier, is that savings banks and other entities not organised in the form of a limited liability company should continue to constitute a significant element of the Norwegian financial market. These legislative changes aim to facilitate framework conditions which, in practice, allow for changes in undertakings and structural adjustments without requiring transformation into undertakings in the form of limited liability companies. The framework for a savings bank to be transformed into a limited liability company shall remain narrow. The Ministry proposes that when assessing whether authorisation for conversion is to be granted, attention should be paid to the fact that savings banks should, as a general rule, be organised as ordinary savings banks or savings banks with equity capital. Another essential element to be emphasised is whether and how the activities are planned to continue locally. Furthermore, emphasis shall be placed on a concessional practice in which transactions for the purpose of restructuring the own funds of savings banks for commercial purposes may be rejected. The regulatory framework shall not facilitate the expansion of large centrally located institutions by purchasing the input into local savings banks, and thereafter by shutting down local offices. I would also like to point out that it is clarified in the legislative text that the main rationale for transformation is the need for equity. This in turn means that the concession authorities must place a decisive emphasis on whether sufficient new capital will be difficult to raise through equity certificates and that conversion into a share-saving bank appears to be the most appropriate solution. This requires specific justification on the part of the bank. It is also stressed that local influence over the activities of savings banks is preserved, and not least that the capital earned over time and its return continues to benefit the area in which the capital is earned. A central theme of the legislative changes that has been one of the most difficult issues has been the solution of the so-called dilution problem, which helps to weaken the status of the basic fund certificate. Dilution means that the share of basic fund holders in the total capital of the bank is reduced over time in relation to the own funds. The reason why this can happen is that, most often, dividends are paid relatively more in return than those paid as gifts. The solution to which the Ministry has subsequently come and which has broad agreement is that the funds for dividends are to be set together for the two groups of owners. This means that each group has an equal share of the profits as dividends. An open consultation has been carried out on the part of the Committee, with the broad agreement of the proposal. After the hearing, there are several teams, among others: from Mutual, come to the conclusion that the concept of «equity» should be replaced by «equity certificate». This was later also supported by representatives from the SAVEBAN. The reasons given by Ghentsidere include, among other things: they have received feedback from investigations that the concept of «equity certificate» is preferable to the concept of «equity certificate» on the market. This concept now being proposed is also in line with what the Banking Law Commission proposed. The term has been discussed, and it is also understood that the Savings Bank Association has previously joined the proposal of the Ministry to use the term «owning stock». An overall committee has had a pragmatic approach to the concept of name. A unanimous committee has amended the text of the law in its vote, in which we are now in favour of using the term «capital certificates». It is also very much in agreement with comments and proposals. A matter to which an overall committee has been concerned is the ongoing work of the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers of the European Union relating to the amendment of the capital adequacy directives. The Committee points out that once the directives have been adopted, the Norwegian authorities will have to consider any impact on the Norwegian legislation, and that the Ministry will, if necessary, prepare proposals for consultation on possible changes to the Norwegian capital adequacy legislation, which will then also deal with possible changes to Norwegian law as a result of the Directives. The opposition parties The Progress Party, the Right and the Left are committed in their comments to the fact that the right of conversion into a public limited liability company or public limited liability company does not become excessive and considers that the right of conversion must be real, particularly in the case of capital requirements. Here I will refer to what I mentioned earlier in this article, and what an overall committee has said in the Innst. O. No 41 for 2006-2007, compared with the fact that none of the models are discriminated against and that the banking market actors are treated equally. There may well be some nuances in the question of when to use political judgement when it comes not to the fact that transformation is justified by capital needs. This approach demonstrates a broad consensus within the Financial Committee on the amendments and, in particular, has been a constructive dialogue on the timing of all parties. There has been a great deal of agreement with the Government's approach, except that an overall committee, as mentioned above, has changed the use of terms in the legal text from holding to equity certificates. I recommend with the attitude of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e267	This seems to be a night when the Financial Committee appears through a rather unusual degree of consensus in most cases. The case rapporteur has prepared the matter very thoroughly, as he tends to do in this kind of case. I should therefore just pay attention to a few brief remarks. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that this matter has taken a very long time, and the industry and industry seem to have taken too long. But I think when the result is there, you're happy with it as it is. The important thing is probably not the name of the capital certificates, which are now called equity certificates, but how savings banks, which are such an important industry and such an important source of finance in Norway, can capitalise, and not least – in the time we are in – how to borrow and finance Norwegian business as both a counterweight and a good competition to the commercial banks. I am pleased that the case rapporteur has taken note of the enquiry that the Right first made to the Ministry of Finance, on the order of priority for equity certificates in writing to cover the deficits. This is an important matter, and it is good that it has been followed up. It is good that a joint committee now agrees to say that the work in progress in the EU and in the European Parliament on this matter, which may change the conditions for the order of priority, needs to be followed up by the Government to see what consequences it can have for the Norwegian legislation. It is clear that it is very important – I am not going to use the word disaster, but it is very important – if there are changes that change this order, and it will be absolutely central to the competitiveness of the new equity certificates. It may be the most important thing in this case. I also want to attach a few words to the access to the transformation of the banks, on which the case-rapporteur was also involved. I'm glad that he too nuanced it a bit, because the department has a somewhat narrower approach to this. It is clear that it is a judgement whether or not to grant permission for transformation. We believe that this access to transformation must be completely real. We believe that the exercise of discretion must not be at the expense of banks having a high degree of predictability. Therefore, the commercial and business policy assessments of each bank will have to be given a significant emphasis. We have written, and we believe that the authorities must exercise great caution in overcoming these types of assessments from the banks. I did not realize that the case-rapporteur agreed, because in that case he would probably have joined the comment. But I realized that there were nuances in this that make us agree for a while on the road that there should be a balance between the banks' own needs and wishes, and the political judgement of the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e281	We are very much for savings banks and that is because savings banks are locally anchored. They are not owned by non-resident owners and cannot be purchased by non-resident owners or centralised in the same way as commercial banks can. They have an important role to play in relation to local business and have an important role in relation to knowledge and knowledge of people living and living in local communities. It's good with savings banks. Spare banks are what Norway has, and they are in many ways the Norwegian answer to cooperative banks in many other places, where they have had a greater degree of local anchoring, and where they are not owned by business but by ordinary people. Instead, we've had the savings banks with the local anchor they've had. That is why we are in ENS to do what is necessary to maintain the special nature of savings banks and to enable savings banks to be competitive towards commercial banks in the years to come and in the foreseeable future. One of the things that savings banks have done is to make sure that they renew the equity instrument that gives them access to new capital, except for the own funds that lie in the savings banks with basic funds certificates – which we now give a new name and a more modern mark, and which make savings banks more competitive in raising capital. I have had critical objections to the modernised basic fund certificates in relation to the dilution effect that lies there, and that is because the basic fund certificate has, to a large extent, been seen as an interest paper that has had higher returns and higher payments than that of equity from commercial banks. This means that if commercial banks and savings banks have equal returns on their equity, as we now put it up, where you have to pay out as much money in gifts or provisions for payment for gifts as you have in percent of your invested equity through your basic fund certificate, it could over time lead to a weakening of your competitiveness, i.e. an ever-exploitation that is greater than what you have of equity in your commercial banks. However, savings banks have considered it essential to ensure that they are provided with sufficient capital to compete with commercial banks. That is why we are also finishing up on the new basic fund evidence system, as it stands, and which was presented in an excellent way by the rapporteur. We remember the conversion of DnB NOR into a stock savings bank. There is no doubt that we have been critical of transparency, as we have seen in the case of Bien Sparebank, which was converted into a stock savings bank. We therefore believe that the requirements we are now making in terms of conversion into a stock-saving bank are good clarifications made by the Government and to which we are joining on the SV side and on the part of the government parties. There are good and long-term conditions that put the necessary restrictions in this round in terms of conversion to asset-saving banks. With those arguments, we join the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e294	The representative can stay standing, it'll be a string change. The first replicator is Svein Fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e299	Now there was agreement here, said Svein Fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e304	Yes, that's exactly what's the point, because often when I hear the representative Holmås in this room, I don't quite know the comments he's been making. That's why I just want to try to clear out a little bit of the consensus that I also described in my post. Now Holmås is talking all of a sudden about cooperative banks, he's talking about the savings banks keeping their peculiarity, and he's talking about them not being owned by business. By that I suppose he means investors. As I have seen the changes, this makes the equity certificates, as they are now called, a more attractive investment object to attract capital, that is. investors, business, business, etc. must invest. They've done that before, but it's going to be easier to get them there. This is how I have seen that the matter is. So this line was just to assure me that also the representative Holmås really means this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e315	Yeah, I made that perfectly clear in what I said. I talked a little bit about the disadvantages that we see in the long term regarding the changes we're making. But we also agree that, in order for the savings banking industry to survive, with the possibility and access to capital, as they say is absolutely necessary in order for them to be able to raise the capital they need, it is necessary for us to make the changes that we are now proposing to make with the basic fund certificate. Svein Flätten also knows very well that the basic fund certificate is not a share. It's not to be equated with a share. One does not have the same influence as the basic fund holder that one holds as a shareholder or an A-shareholder in other commercial banks. I guess that's also the main reason why you pay out higher returns. That's because you give less influence, that's because there's less influence with a foundation fund certificate. But that's the way it is. We agree on this matter. And then I allowed myself to promote some of the objections that it's possible to approach this foundation fund certificate. But we agree to ensure that the savings banking industry keeps its position strong in the Norwegian banking system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e324	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e328	Ot. pp. No 75 also deals with the transformation of financial institutions not organised in the form of limited liability companies, in particular the transformation of savings banks. Saving banks that are well managed, and that are not infected by the growth-over-capacity disease, have been shown to do a solid job and carry out the banking trade for their customers, sail in these financial crisis times, in a way that is to everyone's satisfaction. For a savings bank trailer batch such as the Centre Party, this is very reassuring. The ability to change, as demonstrated by the Terra Group of savings banks, shows that small is good, and that a capacity to reorganize to combine both economies of scale and proximity to customers. This is to continue the best in the savings bank tradition. The issue under discussion today is criteria that must be met in order for savings banks to be transformed into public limited-liability companies or public limited-liability companies. The government believes that this access should be tighter. This has the full support of the Centre Party. Norway has three main types of company for banks: state ownership of central banks, share ownership of shareholders and customer-side banks of savings banks. These different banks have different purposes and roles and related laws. The central party considers it essential to continue this different specificity, because the forms of ownership complement each other and ensure competition in the banking market. Competition in the retail market is currently mainly exercised by savings banks. Savings banks cannot be purchased, and the form of the company is therefore also a robust form of ownership when Norway is subject to the rules of the EEA Agreement – this in order to ensure national ownership at a time when there is evidence of renewed strength and topicality. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, it is essential to maintain the local presence represented by the small savings banks. There is a central concern to avoid enterprises leaving the local area in the short or longer term, or the business being bought up, and the local office then shut down. With the ability of savings banks to acquire equity through equity certificates, we cannot see today what situations would lead to savings banks being converted into equity banks, i.e. commercial banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 859]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e358	On 23 April this year, the Stortinget decided to include the Services Directive in the EEA Agreement. The aim of the Services Directive is to simplify the trade in services, remove unnecessary barriers to trade, make it easier to establish a company, increase consumer protection when purchasing services and create more jobs. Today we adopt service laws as a follow-up to the directive. There is a joint committee behind the setting. The debate on the directive took us very seriously on 23 April, so I want to inform you about the position and the content of the laws, about the implementation of the obligations arising from the Services Directive. This law will make it easier to establish and perform services in Norway. Unlike many other EEA countries, Norway has a relatively small bureaucratic system for foreign companies wishing to provide services here. This means that the changes which the Directive will bring about in Norwegian legislation are relatively limited. But it is worth noting that administrative simplification will make it easier for Norwegian companies operating in other countries that are much more bureaucratic. They may include: are used by the national contact points that are now being established. The national contact point here at home will be created by Altinn. The portal should now be upgraded to be also a contact point for foreign service providers. The contact point provides, inter alia: the right to information on the requirements applicable to service providers, how to contact the responsible authority, and the conditions and procedure for accessing public registers and databases on service providers and services. In addition, there shall be information on the means of complaint and on which, where appropriate, practical assistance and other useful information may be provided. Such a contact point will make it easy and transparent for service providers that want to provide services in Norway. I hope that the contact points in the other EEA countries will also make it easier for Norwegian service providers to provide services in other countries. We should perhaps have a link to their contact points from our contact point at Altinn. The work we do on Altinn will also improve the performance of Norwegian service providers. The law also deals with the right of service providers to establish themselves and temporary cross-border service provision. It appears that setting up can't be a mailbox company. 80 pst. of all Norwegian trade takes place with the EEA countries. The laws state that the implementation of the Services Directive in Norwegian law does not have an impact on the organisation and financing of public services and on the possibilities for resolving societal tasks through the public sector. It is also suggested that the Services Directive does not alter the scope for action against social dumping and that the Government will continue its efforts in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e384	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e401	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e418	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e427	In view of the timing of this case, I should like to mention briefly that the Government in this case requests an extended authorisation to limit the treatment of new cod breeding permits. In addition, the Government is asking for permission to be able to impose the relocation of farming facilities where it is intended to be of general social and economic interest. The majority of the Business Committee, i.e. all lots other than the members of the Progress Party, see the need for an amendment to Section 6 of the Aquaculture Act, because today’s law requires the ongoing examination of applications for cod farming, without necessarily being seen in a wider context. Consequently, more than 500 cod breeding authorisations with a theoretical production capacity of 300000 tonnes have now been granted. Uncontrolled development in the number of breeding permits can easily lead to inappropriate land use with negative economic and environmental impacts. For this reason, the granting of new authorisations should be limited or should be suspended in demarcated geographical areas or for time-limited periods. There is no doubt that there is a need for a somewhat stronger governance of the development of this part of the aquaculture industry. The Aquaculture Act regulates all aquaculture activities. Both permits and changes in permits are governed by the law. In that case, it is natural that the requirements for the movement of rearing facilities should be remedied in the same way. Today's law does not provide such a basis when overall social and economic considerations should so be. Unfortunately, there are currently installations with adverse location in terms of emissions, biodiversity, wild-tailored protection or fish health. Therefore, the overriding societal and economic considerations indicate that it is appropriate to allow for the forced movement of farms. On one point, there is disagreement within the Committee. This concerns the relationship between the Aquaculture Act and the Food Act. Government Parties support the Government in the inclusion of fish health as one element in an overall assessment of the removal order. The opposition parties point to the fact that the food law already provides for the right of movement in the interests of fish health and that a double-haul can create unclear responsibilities between two directorates. I would also ask the Council of State to note that the majority of the Committee refers to the fact that the move of installations inevitably also has a cost side. As a concession authority, the State has a clear responsibility to assess all relevant reasons for granting the breeding permit. In our view, if the State should come to a different conclusion later, it is reasonable that the State should also cover its part of the removal costs. We therefore consider it reasonable that the state should cover the removal costs in cases where the movement is mainly justified by environmental considerations. Where there are predominantly commercial reasons for moving to the plant, farmers should be able to cover the costs themselves. And if social and economic considerations are balanced, sharing costs seems natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e444	It was quite interesting to read the hearing opinions on the draft of this law, and the strong responses that came against the law. It was interesting to read that the Food Authority went against parts of this law, and pointed out the double regulation that is now being introduced, without the relationship between the aquaculture law and the food law being clarified. The FHL has also reacted strongly to this, and the costs of relocation are also unclear. At all, there is a law that really creates a more unexplained situation than the case was before you started this change. For us in the Progress Party, it seems that this law has little consistency as to the effects it will have – one has only more or less gone through it without having taken into account the industry. On this basis, the Progress Party will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e453	Marine farming is one of the most important industries along our coast. This ensures jobs and housing, and not least contributes to the industry’s enormous export income to the country. Norwegian aquaculture has grown rapidly, and will continue to grow and be a key industry for our country in the future. The right-hand side, like the rest of industry, believes that the aquaculture industry is also dependent on good and predictable framework conditions, so as to provide a good basis for the start-up of new activities in order to enable the growth of the industry to continue. The new Aquaculture Act imposes requirements on parts of the industry as regards the environment and the disposal of land. The right agrees that uncontrolled developments in the number of breeding authorisations can easily lead to poor land use on parts of the coast, followed by negative economic and environmental impacts. We therefore support the need to amend the procedural procedures in order to limit or stop the granting of new authorisations in a defined geographical area or for a limited period of time. The right also shares the Government’s view that regulation is needed in this industry, so that public authorities have control over how the coast, our shared resources and common property are disposed of in the most sustainable way possible. The right has long supported the intentions of this law, but parts of the proposal appear not to be well thought out. The Government considers that the authorities should be able to impose the relocation of farms in order to protect both the environment and the long-term interests of the aquaculture industry. According to the Government, this is necessary to achieve a ‘necessary efficiency of the locality structure’. The government believes that the breeders are the ones to pay for the forced move. This seems unreasonable to the Right, and we will show that the State as the concession authority has a responsibility to make all relevant assessments when granting breeding permits. Should the State change its assessment at a later stage, it is fair and reasonable for it to take part in the removal costs, in particular where environmental considerations are at stake. The cost of moving large farms will amount to millions of kroner and may have disastrous consequences for some farms. In the right-hand view, it is unreasonable that the rearing plant should take all of this cost. The question of who will bear the cost of moving has been raised very poorly and further complicated by the fact that the Government's proposal states that the Ministry will continue to work out how the distribution of costs following removal orders should be and that the industry should be consulted in connection with this work. To the right, this ambiguity is considered to be a major weakness in the law, and it is considered that questions about who should bear the cost of the shift imposed are too poorly investigated and justified, a view of the Landsforening of the Fisheries and Maritime Industries Association, FHL, also shares with the Right. Movement and costs associated with these should be investigated in detail. The right will therefore go against the third paragraph of Section 16 of the bill. In the course of the hearing, there were also other opinions that the Right took particular note of. Among other things, the Rural Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Food Safety Authority pointed out that in the case of requirements for the movement of fish health considerations, this is already provided for in the Food Law. This may create confusion as to where the responsibility lies. The right supports FHL in this view and has therefore proposed that the word ‘fishing health’ be deleted in the legal text and in the note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e474	The government wants the aquaculture industry to develop further, and we want growth in this industry. But the prerequisite for this is that development and growth take place within an environmentally sustainable framework, and the two changes we are now making build up under it. Marine industry has grown rapidly over several years, and the current location of farming facilities is not ideal to address the challenges we face. In order to achieve the necessary efficiency of the locality structure, it is also necessary to be able to include already cleared sites in a comprehensive structure. At present, the law does not have the appropriate tools to impose the relocation of farms, even if overall social and nutritional reasons indicate that this is necessary or appropriate. The Government therefore proposes to give the authorities access to the obligation to move farms in order to protect both the environment and the long-term interests of the aquaculture industry. This may result in more rational operation that takes better care of, among other things. fisheries health and the environment. There are costs associated with relocation. When the aquaculture industry wants to grow and uses the limited area of the general public, it is reasonable that the industry should cover the costs of improving the efficiency of land use. However, the government has proposed that the removal costs should not be borne by the individual breeder who has to move, but for example. by the farmers of the fjord or coastal area in question jointly by means of a fund solution. So, of course, I've noticed the majority comments on this point, and they're going to be followed up in the further work. I believe that, in the future, it is possible to provide room for growth in the aquaculture industry while at the same time taking care of the environment. However, it requires both the authorities and the industry to take action. The Government does that, and the law changes are two important steps in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e489	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Sigvald Uppøen Hansen took this over the Presidential seat again. [[See page 877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e501	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e508	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e665	The first sentence of Section 5 of the fourth paragraph is replaced by the first sentence. The Progress Party and the Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e678	It will be replaced by an alternative between the new section 30a and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act No 24 May 1985 No 28 on the Bank of Norway and the money services, etc. is amended as follows: the third to eighth sentence of the current third paragraph of Section 5 becomes the first to sixth sentences of the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e706	So it's going to be over the rest of I and over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e715	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e724	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e1287	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e1296	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e2099	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e2108	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3060	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3069	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3114	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3123	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3160	It will first be contested in Section 16 of the new third paragraph. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3173	The rest of the I and II are going to get lost. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3186	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3199	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11-lower.ana.ud734e3212	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the end of the sitting? - The meeting is over.
