ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e35	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e44	The reasons for this bill are the 13 measures taken by the Government to tighten up the asylum policy put forward on 3 September last year. This is a proposal aimed at amending the current law on foreigners, i.e.: from 1988 and the new Foreign Affairs Act which will enter into force until next year. The proposal seeks to establish a new general rule for family immigration. The rule shall include persons who are allowed to stay in Norway on a humanitarian basis, have refugee status or are subject to family immigration legislation. So Norwegian citizens are not going to be covered by this. The requirement is four years of work or education in Norway before family start-ups can be granted, and that is an important point: it is family start-up we are talking about in this context. The purpose of the Government is to reduce the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway who do not meet the conditions for protection, while, according to the proposal, providing incentives for integration through work and school. We all know the history of this matter. SV took this one, and it is then the opposition – the party of progress, above all – that ensures that the matter still has a majority in the Stortinget. The Progress Party is critical to the proposal, in the sense that unfortunately the impact will not be the greatest if we want to limit the relatively large asylum influx that Norway is experiencing today. It is also reasonably clear in the proposition itself, which states: ‘The proposal is likely to lead to a certain reduction in the number of family start-up applications, but it is difficult to say anything about the scale of the reduction. However, it is close to believing that the reduction will be so small that there will be no basis for amending any resulting budgetary framework.' In other words, it is fairly clear that this is not a matter which will have a very large impact on Norwegian asylum policy. If that were the case, we would have seen it already, because we know that these signals are perceived quite early in the world. However, this is an important matter in many ways. It is an important matter in the sense that by introducing four years' work or education requirements in principle, the premises made by the Progress Party underpin the management of Norwegian family immigration policy are accepted. We have long considered it necessary to see family reunification rules and family establishment rules in connection with immigration to Norway. We've got a lot of noise for that. But it's interesting to see that the government in presenting this proposal actually applies the same principle. It is not only interesting with regard to the Government, but it is also interesting because the Right, which has also been very strongly opposed to regulating the family immigration area for reasons of immigration policy, also supports this proposal gradually. In the setting, the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the Right and the Center parties are mainly grouped together. There are some deviations. This is in line with the rule of exception, which goes beyond what the Progress Party believes it should do, because not only does it catch up with what is required under international conventions, but it also opens up a more extensive interpretation of the exemption rule. At the same time, it has also been suggested that the introduction system be included in this four-year requirement, which is considered unreasonable by the Progress Party. In addition, this great majority is united behind the proposal. However, I would like to emphasise that, in relation to the objective, this is unfortunately not too late – there will be little noticeable impact on the asylum flow to Norway. However, it is a step in the right direction in the sense of accepting family immigration regulation based on immigration policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e66	There is a broad consensus that there is a need to reduce the arrival of groundless asylum seekers in Norway. The right has pointed this out several times and has also made proposals on several occasions that will reduce the proportion of groundless asylum seekers without hearing about this. Despite the 13 measures promoted by the Government in September 2008 and the proposition we are dealing with today is a result, I note that we have not seen any effect so far. In 2008, 14 302 asylum seekers were registered with the Foreign Office of the Police. This is 7,852 more than in 2007. 60 pst. by those who come, they shall be refused. 2891 is out of the way. The rise began just after the red-greens took over power, that is. autumn 2006. Available forecasts also indicate, according to the Police Foreign Unit, that the influx will be high in 2009. Growth is particularly high from countries such as Iraq, Eritrea, Afghanistan and Somalia, with no clear cause. What is clear, however, and which can be read in the proposition, is that the Government has contributed to such doubts about immigration policy, and that it is given the impression that it is easier to stay in Norway than is actually the case. Let me quote from the proposition: ‘Another explanation that appears to have a significant impact on the distribution of asylum seekers between different European countries is how Norwegian asylum policies are perceived externally.’ The result is that many sell everything they own and have, go on a dangerous journey and end up in a reception pending departure. The proposal we are discussing today is that reference persons who have been granted humanitarian residence, refugee status or stay through the family immigration legislation must have four years of work or education in Norway before they can be granted family start-up. Right-wing thinking it is a sensible proposal, and we think this will be a good incentive for work and education and a driving force for both self-sufficiency and integration. The right also agrees with the Government that participation in the introduction programme under the Introduction Act is to be regarded as full-time work and thus to be deducted from the requirement for four years of work or training. We also believe it is right that work should not have been carried out over a continuous period of time, because the consequences of, for example, losing the job for a period of time would have become too large. I note that the proposal in this round concerns those who want family reunification and that the Government will come back to the Stortinget with a proposal that will also include those who want family reunification. I can already inform you that the Right does not want to impose the same restriction on family reunification. This concerns families who have a right to come to Norway and who will therefore come to Norway sooner or later. Therefore, the right considers that a similar restriction for those who are waiting to be reunited only helps to plague families who are already in a difficult situation. This will also not be a good contribution to greater integration, on the contrary. Finally, I would like to allow myself a small comment: this matter is being incorporated into the range of issues in which the opposition sits in the Government. It is a rather special construction in Norwegian parliamentary history. Although immigration policy is one of the areas where, from the date of accession, government parties have agreed to disagree, winging and political disagreement are beginning to become a relatively significant feature of the Government. In this connection, I can mention the issues of blasphemy and hirab. At a time when we have a great need for political leadership and action, I think it is unfortunate that the positions on important political issues are to be seen as fresh.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e90	The proposal for a legislative amendment that we are now considering is a follow-up to the fact that the majority of the Government on 3 September 2008 promoted 13 measures to tighten up asylum policy. As you know, the SV members of the Government took this one on eight of the 13 points that were presented at the time. One of the points we chose to reserve for was: ‘A condition is introduced that reference persons who have resided on a humanitarian basis must have four years’ training or work experience in Norway in order to be granted family reunification or establishment. The same will apply to persons with refugee status, but only in the case of family establishment. This condition will not apply to persons who have been authorised as migrant workers or under EEA citizens’ legislation. Derogations from the condition may be made if there are particular reasons to do so.’;» In our view, people who have been accommodated cannot be reunited with their children or ectecs if they have not had a job or studied for four years. This may, in fact, be a law whereby asylum seekers who are granted a residence permit in Norway for ‘stronger human reasons’ are to be cut off from contact with their spouse and children for at least six years, when we expect the time of proceedings. The fact that you are at work and can support your family should not be an exception. This measure intends to ‘reduce further arrivals of asylum seekers to Norway which do not fulfil the conditions for protection’. Of the 546 who received this type of residence permit during the first 10 months of last year, the vast majority, i.e. 80 p.t., came from conflict areas in Somalia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Russia and Chechnya. As a rule, decisions taken by the UDI explicitly indicate that the security situation at the place of residence has had an impact on the granting of a residence permit. The premise that those who want to be affected by such a measure do not need protection and can thus safely return to their home country and resume their family life there may well be theoretically justified, but reality tells us something else. I would therefore refer to the position of the Committee, which reads as follows: ‘The members of the Committee of the Socialist Left, the Christian People’s Party and the Left consider the proposed measure to be an unreasonable restriction. Many people are granted a residence permit because they need protection but do not fulfil the terms of the refugee convention. These members also consider that it is unfair for those who receive a ‘normal’ humanitarian authorisation because of disease and so on. They are not among the strongest in the labour market and have greater problems than others in finding a job or a place to study. These members indicate that the measure is likely to be more stringent than the EU Family Reunification Directive, which means that Norway takes a more stringent and less liberal line than the rest of Europe. The measure will in practice involve at least six years of separation from family, taking into account the length of proceedings for applications for asylum and family reunification.» We in SV cannot agree with the proposal that reference persons must have four years of work or training in Norway in order for the applicant to have the right to family establishment. We pay particular attention to the fact that, in our view, the proposal may involve unfortunate restrictions on the exercise of family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e107	This proposal was launched at a press conference in September as one of 13 measures to tighten asylum and refugee policy. The main purpose of the government is to reduce the arrival in Norway of asylum seekers who do not fulfil the conditions for protection. In addition, work and education will be encouraged. With regard to the last purpose, the Christian People's Party believes that a better incentive for integration must be to give family reunions and established rights, possibly obligations, to a form of introduction, i.e. a system that is more extensive than today's language training, which is offered to those who have been given residence because of family reunification. The urgency and arrogance must be the reason why the Ministry has not sent this proposal out at general consultation. This is justified by the fact that a similar proposal was sent at the hearing on 12 October 2006. The 2006 proposal dealt with measures against forced marriage – three years of residence, study time or working time. The proposal we are discussing today concerns four years. The whole purpose of the proposal has been amended, and it also involves stricter conditions. The Christian People's Party believes that these are significant changes to the proposal. The proposal should therefore have been sent out again, and it is very critical that it has not been done. The Association of Lawyers and the NOAS has also pointed this out. But I'm recording that the government is of a different opinion. The proposal refers to the fact that the changes mainly involve embellishment of the 2006 proposal. Reference is made to the fact that the four-year period is more flexible because there is no requirement that the work or training must have continued continuously and immediately before the application for family establishment is considered. As long as the maintenance requirement is added, a so-called decoration appears very irrelevant. This includes, inter alia: that the reference person must have had an annual income of NOK 215 000 in the last year, i.e. not very flexible. The Christian People's Party questions the objective of reducing the arrival of asylum seekers in Norway. The Chapter on the Economic and Administrative Impact of the Proposition states that: ‘However, it is close to believing that the reduction will be so small that there will be no basis for amending any resulting budgetary framework.’ It is difficult to interpret it differently from the fact that the aim of the proposal is not actually expected to be achieved, i.e. a reduction in the number of unjustified asylum applications. It seems to me unintelligible that measures are being put in place which, in advance, are not expected to meet this objective. In particular, when the measure seriously restricts the right to family life for people who have already been resident in the country. In times of economic downturn, immigrants often lose their jobs first. The present proposal will penalise the immigrant twice if he wishes to establish a family with a foreign national. In addition to losing a job, which means an economic loss, he is deprived of the possibility of establishing family life. So the Christian People's Party is voting against the Ot.prp proposal. No 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e127	When the Committee examined new foreign law less than a year ago, the majority of the Committee considered that the right to family life was fundamental in a liberal democracy. Living with one’s immediate family after having taken up residence in Norway is not to be suspected or made unnecessarily difficult. The left therefore believes that family reunification must be widely allowed. Unfortunately, it is a fact that family reunification rules are being abused, for example: by pro forma and coercion. The left considers that stricter and more targeted measures to combat this abuse are important, but are sceptical of general rules that affect all family reunification. This is one of the reasons why we will not vote in favour of the proposal that the reference person must have four years of work or education in Norway in order to be able to achieve family reunification. The left notes that the Government believes that increased demands for income and education for the reference person will stimulate young people to gain their own foundation in life. The left, however, is not convinced that it is that simple. The left wants a general rule on guaranteed maintenance requirements. It is an important part of integration policy to demand that residents can support themselves and the family members who come to Norway. The left, however, believes that the tightening we are now dealing with is going too far. We are aware that people already under today's legislation are struggling to meet family reunification requirements and are desperate because their spouse lives in another country. Unfortunately, it is not always easy to get full-time jobs when the introduction course is over. Not everyone can afford to take up student loans at a well-adult age in order to meet the education requirement. When the Foreign Affairs Act was dealt with, family reunification rules were tightened up by the Government to combat coercion. Now we hear another tone. The proposals we are discussing today are obviously intended to limit asylum arrivals to Norway. The left has no strong belief that restrictions on family reunification rules will affect the number of asylum arrivals, but we will obviously have fewer immigrants and more with longing for their loved ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e138	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 409]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e146	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is over, but the President has every reason to believe that Odelsting's members will carry out the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e371	The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e382	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e395	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24-lower.ana.ud1883e413	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the end of the sitting? - The meeting is over.
