ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e22	The representative Rune J. Skjellera, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e30	I want to make a proposal on behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Vigdis Giltun, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself on the establishment of the hospice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e35	Mr. Jan Arild Ellingsen will put forward two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e38	I would first like to make a proposal on behalf of Solvency Horne, Thore A. Nistad, Karin S. Woldseth and myself on the change of the Norwegian authorities' handling of child-abduction cases. Then I want to make a proposal on behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen and myself to ban hijab and other religious or political symbols as part of the police uniform. At the same time, I ask that the last proposal be dealt with under the Rules of Procedure of Storting § 28c.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e47	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e50	On behalf of the representatives of Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I am delighted to propose that the State offer tax credits as a contribution to a moderate wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e81	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa Council of State Heidi Grande Røys Council of State Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e100	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Yesterday we could read in several newspapers that a number of people who are at risk of becoming unemployed or on leave are being excluded into the social queue. In Oslo, the problem is greatest. Several have been told that it may take up to two months to process the daily allowance application, and Nav has said that instead of standing in the long queue, you should visit the social office, if you do not have money. The progress party thinks this is a totally unworthy message to get for people who have it difficult, people who have it tough enough from before. Then we also know that when it comes to getting social assistance, this group is not entitled to it until you sell both the house and the car. At the same time, this government has said that poverty should be eliminated with a pen stroke. It is interesting to note that a welfare policy will allow more and more people to experience total income shortages and find their way into the poverty trap, without a penny in income for up to several months. The Progress Party is taking a strong distance from such a policy, and the reason why I ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs the question is that she is responsible for one half of Nav, the municipal part – and social assistance is below the municipal part. Can the Council of State guarantee that those who are unemployed or on leave will not be swept over the hall and into the social welfare queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e111	The representative used the expression ‘unworthy message’. I just have to make it clear that I fully agree with the situation that has now arisen is completely unacceptable. Then, for the sake of order, I have to pay attention to the fact that the Nav offices belong to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. It also does social assistance: the device, the scope, the guidelines. I am pleased that the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen has taken hold of this. It is true that the action package introduced new options to the Nav offices. It is also the case that there is now work on bombing just to ensure that in practice the individual experiences what was supposed to be the intention of establishing the Nav, simply to meet one door. They're supposed to meet on the inside of this door people who take care of their special situation. If it had been so simple that the individual unemployed could only sign out with social assistance, the matter would actually have to be settled, because then one could advance between themselves. But here, what the representative has in mind is different legislation. Let me just underline: here's a lot of work to ensure a better follow-up for the individual than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e120	I record that the Council of State will not give any guarantee that this will not happen – that is, that people will not be left to the social office. However, I am fully aware that it is the Minister of Labour and Inclusion who is responsible for Nav, but it is now that the Nav reform is an interaction between the municipalities and the state at the social security centre and the Aetat. It is also the case that, after all, the Municipal Council is a specialist council for municipalities and the interaction that will take place between municipalities and the state in order to achieve the best possible Nav reform to help as many people as possible – in order to provide the best possible welfare offer to those who actually need it. Then it's also important that you get that interaction in a good way, and that you get a code that can be handled on both sides. Because it's not like there's one door in today – if you go around and visit the Nav office, you'll meet several doors. Will the Council of State take the initiative to move social assistance within the state system now – under the state hub?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e129	I find it absolutely right that there is a focus on this matter and on this situation, not least at this time. It is also intended to establish over 100 new Nav offices in 2009. That means that this is an establishment that is under construction. So to the question of social assistance should be state-owned. There is enough so that there is disagreement between the Progress Party and me. I think it's good for the individual that there are opportunities locally for some variations, but within clearly established guidelines for social assistance. So I think it's right to keep her municipal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e136	The President will now allow four follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e139	The Government's action package is good. Many municipalities are very satisfied with the package of measures, but we have had some enquiries from municipalities, especially in Sogn and Fjordane. From the municipality of Eid, which is an average municipality in Sogn and Fjordane, we have been informed that there is a failure in tax revenue. The consequences of this are that the package of measures is being put on hold – it is necessary to assess whether the budget can be balanced. In other words, the package of measures does not have an effect in the municipality of Eid, because there is a failure in tax revenue. Will the Council of State work to compensate for the tax revenue failure of the municipalities concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e144	If the representative Thomsen gets questions like this, I think he's going to say that the government has warned that tax receipts that prove to be less than the government laid down in the budget, the government will compensate. This means that the current package of measures, such as: 4 billion kroner for maintenance, all municipalities should benefit, because it is said about these four billions that if the individual municipality does not use what is intended for that municipality – i.e. a certain amount per cent. head - the funds will be withdrawn again. So my clear recommendation is: Use the money for maintenance!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e150	Martin Engeset – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e153	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. People who get in the unhappy situation to lose their job are now moving on to the social office because you can't handle applications for unemployment benefits. After all, the Council of State is the Council of State responsible for modernisation and renewal, and we have read it on its website. In this work, it should be understood that compliance with administrative deadlines is an extremely important task. Now we have heard that the colleague of the Council of State Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has considered this situation unworthy and unacceptable, and then my question becomes to the Council of State: What does she intend to do with this unworthy and unacceptable situation — that people who become unemployed are referred to the social office because they wait weeks and months for what they are legally entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e162	The most important thing this council should do is to do the same thing as the municipal and regional ministers have said, and as the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen said in a letter to, among other things. The representative Martin Engeset yesterday, namely that the guided tours and tasks on the Nav-etat, the metrics placed on the Nav-etat link to the follow-up of the unemployed, are at hand. He wrote that in a letter to the Stortinget yesterday. Then, in the context of the revised national budget, we will review the budgetary situation to see if something needs to be done about the situation that has arisen. We should be aware that this is very demanding for Nav. So in a time of great change, the biggest in the public sector, we now have an increasing unemployment because of an international financial crisis. Nav needs support from all of us who are politicians, and of course they need budgets to fulfill their tasks. The State Council of Day Terje Andersen Stortinget yesterday announced that they would of course have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e169	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e172	My question goes to the Minister of State. For the Christian People's Party, it is not important to defend a system, for us, Nav is a tool for finding solutions that individual users are earned with. Unfortunately, we get many feedback that Nav is not working like it was supposed to. What should appear as one door, one service, is still perceived as fragmented and not user-friendly. It's a very serious situation, affecting some of the most vulnerable in our society. Does the Council of State need a more coherent service at the Nav offices? What action has the Council of State taken to give users a better offer? And finally, there are strict demands for social assistance. In today's situation, can unemployed people risk being rejected? I don't think the Council of State has answered that clearly yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e185	It is imperative for a state council that is constantly engaged beyond what is really its main task, to show that the question is going on another state council's territory! Let me say, for the first thing, I'm not busy defending a system either. I'm still busy securing better services. My commitment is, of course, directed primarily towards securing the free income to be spent on the tasks that they have locally. So I thought Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund points to a very important point. Of course, it is important here to have as an overarching goal a more unified service, a continuous better provision. And whether an unemployed person gets social assistance or not, in fact, has to do with income and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e190	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e193	I will also turn to the Minister of State. The words that remain in the media, and also in this room in those times, are financial crisis, banking package, action package – there are hundreds of billions flying around. But the real economy actually applies to individuals, ultimately, so there are really questions about how many are going to be unemployed. That's what's going to be the main point -- it's a simple human being, single layers we're talking about. Nav, as we understand and know, is going to become the key in this, but then we get the right that Nav downgrades, and they don't seem to take people's problems seriously. The top of the tap bag, as we've heard, is that the unemployed are referred to the social office. As the Council of State just said, it's unworthy. The Nav reform is an interaction reform in which municipalities should be very strongly involved, so my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State happy with the development and status of this interaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e200	As far as I know, some Nav offices work very well. Then there are some who are completely open-minded and have a great potential for improvement, and the whole reform is not yet implemented. For the municipal part of this: it's clear that this has our special challenges, because some are added to the state and some are added to the municipality. I myself have had the pleasure of opening some Nav offices, and I have met those who are engaged, both in the state and in the municipality, who are busy with what is supposed to be a common task here, simply to help solve a difficult situation for individual clients. So I think one just has to realize that relative to the international financial crisis, Nav has very special challenges these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e205	The President has no possibility of interrupting the questioner when the questioner asks questions to the Council of State, but would point out that the questions asked should be asked to the present state councils that have the constitutional responsibility. Therefore, the Storting is made aware of which state councils are to be present. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e210	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. In the range of remarkable cases originating from the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Renewal and Administration now appears to be a hostage to a law case in which the Minister of Justice at all costs will retain today's Commissioner of Police, even if this violates fundamental principles of the state's annual policy. At present, the size of the population is subject to the law on the amendment of the Police Act extending the annual target of the police director from a total of nine years to twelve years — of some also referred to as the ‘Lex Killengreen’. For a Minister of Justice who specializes in spin-offs, it may not be entirely surprising that he could turn around in this case too, because the bill has rightly produced strong reactions. In fact, the Advocate General refused to give a hearing because it was perceived that the decision had actually been taken. The Minister of Justice’s reply to the objection has been to adapt the reasons for the law. According to the Evening Post on Tuesday, the Minister of Renewal and Administration has indicated in a letter that the original bill stated that he wanted to extend the Killangereen's annual targets without being announced. Later in the bill, it was suggested that the position be published, which according to the Grande Røys Council may appear contradictory. Grande Røys further writes that ‘a change of an interim period already in progress is contrary to the basic principles of the State's annual target system’, and that it will be problematic for the Minister of Justice to announce the police director's job. It must then be published in two ways, a three-year call for Killengeren, where appropriate, and a six-year call for other applicants. It is paradoxical that a law that appears to violate fundamental principles has been promoted by the Ministry of Justice, which is the Government's legal expert body in the field of new legislation. The leading point and my question to the Council of State is that the Council of State has itself, in the consultation round, characterised the legislative proposal for extended annual targets for the police director as ‘self-contradicting’, ‘very unlucky’ and ‘in conflict with fundamental principles’. As the top human resources officer of the State, how can the Council of State defend a change of law that is clearly contrary to the basic principles of public service contracts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e222	What the representative Aspaker does not mention in the government bill, which is being dealt with in the Stortinget now, is that this is a adaptation of the annual target institute that we have for the vast majority of annual target settings, just six years initially, and then with a possible reassessment in relation to the new six years, i.e. after publication and evaluation. The police directorship has now been an exception to that, because one has had six plus three, so the Minister of Justice's proposal is now about to adapt the position of the police director to be more similar to any other year's target position, namely six plus six – then with an exception from the detention positions, which Stortinget has decided to be six years without the possibility of extension. There is another debate. But that means that with this now we get a equal anchoring in relation to the civil servants' law in view of the goals in the state of six plus six years. Then we have different roles in the government. My responsibility is to override the rules, and when we have a hearing, it is my responsibility to show the consequences in relation to that side of the case. So, when the government deals with one thing, it's like when two visions stand against one another, we have to land on the one -- otherwise it'll be a job war, and one can't do anything at all. And then the government stands behind the fact that in this case, the assessment is to ensure the continuity of the lease in the Police Directorate. The transformation and development work that is currently in an operational phase is very demanding. One can only read the newspapers to realize that the current situation in the Police Directorate is very demanding. So after an overall assessment, both of the concerns that I brought to the square, and those that the Minister of Justice brought to the square, the government has come to realize that the care of continuity in the rental was the most important thing, and that's what I'm behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e229	The annual targets for the police director were adopted when the police reform came into force in 2000, and not unexpectedly so the Council of State here is defending the Minister of Justice. Nevertheless, I would say that this is terrifyingly unprincipled. With ‘Lex Killengreen’, the Minister of Justice has once again got a total government out on the ice. It's now almost three years since Killeggeren's commitment was renewed by three years, which would be the last period. If the reasons that the Ministry of Justice is now leading the pen as important, continuity and stability, would be so burdensome, it is strange that it was not discussed at that time. The impreciseness of the process around the goal of the police director is further underlined by the fact that the agents in the country are otherwise in a position to reduce their annual targets. More and more, this is similar to the tailoring of a position to the Chief of Police. How is it possible that the responsible State Council may allow such conflicting annual target practices to be developed by the State? Is it acceptable for the Council of State to amend the rules of procedure for years in such a way that other applicants appear to be actually undesirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e238	Here it was very different, and I do not in any way support the statements made by the representative of Aspaker. On the contrary, both are legislative proposals, both an opportunity of six plus six for the police director and a reduction of four plus four to one six-year period for the offender, an adaptation – so you get a whole set of regulations for the civil servant law. This means that all annual targets in the State will be six years. Then, when it comes to all options, excluding the enforcement, there is an opportunity to search – and be evaluated on the same line with possible new seekers – for a new six-year period. So we're going to have the same treatment for all of the measures. Just in this situation, the government – as I said – has had different views on whether the current holder of the year can search for a new three-year period, but we have chosen to base the very special situation in the police, and stressed continuity. And that's what I'm behind, as the Minister of Justice is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e245	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e248	This is not an approach to the country's six plus six rule, this is an approach that the Minister of Justice wants the Police Director Killenger to continue and therefore establish a special scheme of plus three. That's what's at the very heart of the question. It is obvious that when the Government chooses to reduce both the annual target period of the government's employees, who may be challenging to the government, namely the representatives, while making a special arrangement for the police director, this appears to be an adaptation where the views of the state councils on the individual who is leading the government's human resources policy, rather than basic principles. And when the rationale for the original arrangement relating to the police director was such a significant consideration as the need for democratic governance, one again shows that this government is willing to sidestep the basic principles of the rule of law for internal reasons and compromises, and purchase and sale internally in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e255	I would like to remind you of what I said in the reply to the representative, Aspaker, that it was the goal of the police director who had special arrangements compared to the other goals in the state. A six plus three order was only the police director who had. Now we equate that position with all other measures, e.g. statesmen – of whom I have just appointed four – who then have six years, plus a possible occasion for a new period. When it comes to the residents, I would remind you that Erna Solberg, Per-Kristian Foss and Olemic Thommessen from Right had a Document No. 8-proposals where they just asked the government to review six-year annual periods, and also whether a person should renew the bid's trust or whether one should just leave it for one period. The majority of the population concluded that only one period should be given and that period should be six years. So it's going to follow up on a decision of magnitude that's at the root of this, and with that, it's going to have an equality of six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e262	Jan Arild Ellingsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e265	It has been interesting to hear the reasoning of the Council of State so far in relation to this issue. My question would be: does not the Council of State not see that it will look mysterious, to use such an expression, to have a shared text, with one part in three years, to take care of today's director if he wants to apply again, and at the same time to have an opening so that others can apply for six years? At my discretion, one of the main challenges is that at a time when Norwegian police are struggling, we need stability and continuity, as was said here. But this matter can then not possibly promote either stability or continuity, at my discretion. What you do is you end up contributing to a further uprising among the Norwegian police, because you think the State Council Storberget is running a solo race again. Then my question becomes quite simple: Does the Council of State agree that this process, which I think is deficient and bad, can once again be a factor in the reputation of the Government, the reputation of the State Council of Storberg – otherwise it is not problematic from my point of view – but the very most police as an institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e272	There's no such thing as a government council running some solo run here. Here, a specialist council has put forward a case for the government, and the government joins in. We have been in the Council of State and are making an outrageous proposition. Then, of course, the whole government is behind it. So, as the representative Ellingen says, there is no solo run – on the contrary. The very consideration of stability and continuity in the difficult phase in which the Police Directorate is currently involved, in a major development and conversion process, was important. It was the most important government in assessing the different concerns. And that's what I'm saying: that's how in every government, in every case we have. We have different positions, we have to bring to the square the different arguments for our stand, and then the government is going to collect sets of take a decision on the best possible basis. We've made sure that the government has the best possible basis to make this assessment, and this is where the Directorate of Police and Continuity has gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e279	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e282	It's really very interesting to hear what the Council of State is saying right now. She says straight out that, after the government's view, Ingelin Killengreen is absolutely necessary for the Norwegian police; without her you can't do it. It's probably a nice certificate for Killangreen, but I don't think it's a good signal about what the stand is like for the Norwegian police if that's what's supposed to be the basis for actually blaming the regulation to the extreme. But it's a hallmark for this majority government now that you use the law for everything it's worth, in one direction or another, to get what you want. In the case of voluntary children’s and young people’s organisations which do not have the politically correct view that the Government wants, the legislation is prohibited from withdrawing financial support. If you want individuals, like the police director, you point the rules in that direction. So my question is, is this a line we can expect more of?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e290	I want to take a complete distance from the description that the representative Syverse gives here. This is not a legislative adaptation; it is a harmonisation of the regulations of the Service Officers Act, since the very majority of the annual target positions have six years, with the possibility of a six-year renewal of the annual target period for all positions other than the police director, who had six plus three. It is a harmonisation of the police director’s objective, and it is now possible for the current holder to seek an extended annual target of three years. It is, as I said, after an overall assessment of the need in the Police Directorate. It's definitely not a special treatment for a single person. There is a common need for the Police Directorate to be calm and continuity now in relation to the challenges they face. I don't want to join the description given by the representative Syversen of the Government's view of other organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e297	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e300	Let's just say that the police director is doing an excellent job. But the matter is bigger and more important than that. When this position was created in its time – and I was very responsible for it – Stortingen chose to assume that the position would require everything, but in the balance between providing everything in Norway's most powerful civil position and democratic control, the goal was to stop after nine years – a little more than two major periods, i.e. that the principle of the idea was that, taking into account the balance between efficiency and democracy, one should stop for nine years. Should we now see it as a matter of fact that the Council of State – which I now believe is also turning to us as a Council of State and representative of the Party of European Socialists – believes that we should simply put aside the fact that democracy counts and is important? Should I perceive it in this way that the Party SV and the Government will no longer show respect for the heavy principles that the Storting had with it when the position was created in 1999/2000? It doesn't count anymore – is that how to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e309	No, it counts absolutely, and I would warn against making police directorship more important in relation to democratic control than many other positions. I, who have a constitutional responsibility for the statesmen, for example, who are so important for the legal certainty of individuals, for businesses in this country, do not want to say that one position is more important than the other when it comes to democratic control and the concerns underlying the goals. That is why we have now brought about harmonisation of this. We have said that the police directorship is not a special position in relation to other positions under the Åremålsinstitut – and then with that foundation. So now we're expanding so that this position is similar to everybody else. Then it'll be six plus six years. As I said, there is absolutely no undermining of any democratic control. On the contrary – there is equality with other positions, which we also have a lot of attention around, and which are important for democracy in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e314	Then the Storting goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e317	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Last week the government said no to another wind farm, this time in Austevoll. According to the NRK, the cause was widespread resistance. On Saturday's revy, the Council of State said the following: ‘I believe we are now doing a great job to increase wind power and more renewable energy – we are spending more money – and we have put 1.2 billion more in place in the crisis package at the latest – so there has never been any more money to produce wind power projects in Norway.’ The government has reported to Stortinget that these DKK 1.2 billion in the crisis package should focus specifically on energy-efficient solutions in industry, construction and construction. Some of the funds can go to wind and biofuels projects, it also says. But it is well that an oil and energy minister should be measured on how much energy he manages to generate, and not on how much money he says he can use. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, no one kilowatt hour has been produced from new wind power here in the country, unlike Germany, which produces 100 times more wind power than Norway, Denmark, which produces ten times more wind power than here in the country, and Sweden, which has set a major target of producing 30 TWh by 2020. My question is really that simple: how many new wind farms will it be built as a result of the crisis package of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e333	I believe the representative Holten Hemdal just as well as I know that it is not possible to give an exact answer. What I can answer is that we now spend three and a half times as much money on renewable energy as we did here in the country when we took over the government power. And then we've given Enova a power to evaluate how to get the most renewable energy back for the money. Enova has a target of 3 TWh in 2010. At the same time, Enova says that the costs of the wind power projects that have so far been presented have been very high, and that little renewable energy has been returned for the money. I mean, as Enova himself says, spending money on energy efficiency, spending money on bioenergy, on heat, is nothing less important than spending money on wind power. At the same time, we see that the effects there have been so far higher in energy per. krone. But we have a job to do in relation to getting more wind. We are now working on a regulatory framework for offshore wind power. We've given Enova frames that allow them to spend more money on wind power than they could before. Enova shall issue a new application round in June 2009. It's going to be two laps this year. This means that Enova works intensively to get the new wind power projects up and down. But at the same time, we cannot avoid that some of the projects that have been presented have had a very high cost level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e338	Well, it's possible to answer the question from the petitioner if the council wants to. It is possible to determine how many new wind power projects will be triggered by the crisis package. It is about giving political signals to Enova, the main tool of the Government in the field of new renewable energy. The Christian People's Party had great expectations of the crisis package. Unfortunately, these expectations were not met. We've put in $2 billion more to Enova than the government has added. It could trigger eight to ten of the 16 projects that have been granted a concession, but are not started. It's about showing political direction. Governments are taking up offshore wind power. Yes, he has a goal – in 2030. But we're talking about 2009. Is it the case that the Council of State wants these 16 projects approved around the country to be launched through state aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e347	I want it to start building many wind power projects in Norway. I also want us to focus on cost-effectiveness within the bet. It is fully possible for the representative Holten Hemdal in opposition to use money that the Christian People's Party did not have in place when it came to investing in renewable energy three, four, five years ago. What's my goal is to get the most renewable energy available. That is why I have told Enova that yes, cost-effectiveness is good. When Enova now says that they need to go a few more rounds with the wind power industry, they need to run new call rounds to get the projects good enough, I think it is an important signal in relation to getting the wind power plant in Norway good in the longer term. I don't think we would have deserved to do the opposite of what was done in the harvest, to go into projects that based on a professional assessment were viewed as too expensive. So here it's going to be necessary to go rounds. It's now being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e354	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bjørg Tørresdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e357	We must agree that there will be a lot of talk and a lot of good intentions, and that now is the time to go from word to action in terms of wind power. Everyone agrees to have it, but no one gets it. Even projects that have been supported, such as the Høj-Jären, are at stake. Even more serious is the power crisis in Central Norway. There the government has repeatedly pointed out that it is necessary to produce energy – not just think about it, which is important enough – to resolve the power crisis in Central Norway. It's time to deliver to Outer Week. It is good that the government parties in Stortinget point to the power crisis in the timing of the package of measures to be dealt with on Friday. It's a good step in the right direction, but the Christian People's Party goes further and says straight out that now outside Vikna has to get commitments. My question to the Council of State is, isn't it time to deliver power to Middle Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e365	In the middle of Norway, I think there's a reason to take a little round on what the actual situation is there. In a longer-term perspective, there is a clear need for both more force into Central Norway and more voltage improvements and line improvements within the region. It's working on it. At the same time, Statnett has delivered many positive improvements in the area over the last few years. Without using it as any evidence that we're in target, because we're not, we had a situation yesterday when the power price in North Norway, which is now a common price range, was lower than in South Norway. It was yesterday. I'm not saying that's the general one, but there's evidence that it's actually going the right way in terms of voltage improvement and getting capacity into Middle Norway. I therefore do not agree that nothing is done. Then I have also sent out a request that is about to be submitted for a tendering procedure for the purchase of production in central Norway. It may be an important measure to get new production going, but... now I see that time is up, so I expect the president to club me before I get to the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e372	There'll be follow-up questions, so there'll be plenty of reason for that. Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e377	Once again, we are witnessing that the Government is offensive in the rhetoric of energy policy and has many desires. But when the accounts come, we see that nothing is realized. So it is not built a single new windmill under the red-green government despite many promises. So the council regrets that it doesn't happen because it's too expensive, and then he refers to offshore wind turbines without mentioning that they require at least twice as much in support of realizing than land-based wind power. Ergo becomes the wishful thinking even more unrealistic. We agree with the Austevoll decision. The wind power project was not wanted locally, and then the authorities should not centralize it. But outside vikna is uncontroversial locally, and there is a need for a lot of power. Although the Council of State says that there has been a day of lower electricity prices in the north than in the south, it is the opposite that has been the case over time. Ten cents per cent. KWh at increased power prices has had consumers in Central Norway in relation to South Norway, so the Council of State gives a wrong impression of the situation. The question is: will the Council of State earmark some of the crisis package for renewable energy measures in central Norway to resolve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e384	I think I was quite careful to say that what was happening yesterday has not been a general situation in the relationship between the price ranges of South Norway and North Norway. However, it shows that the measures that are being implemented and that are continuously being worked on have an impact. What I disagree with is a description of reality that gives the impression that nothing is happening in Middle Norway. But I also see, as a result of the decisions taken seven, eight, nine years ago to bring in new, large energy users in central Norway, that at the time there were not good enough plans for a production that was proportionate to the energy consumption that is now. But, as I said in the answer to the previous question, I am working very specifically to look at the possibility of going in and buying production in the area. When we now work on improving line capacity, there will also be a concrete action that will work. Of course, in the case of Outer Vicna, it's possible to go... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e393	Done Clubing...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e398	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e401	Norway has a huge potential for renewable energy not only within wind power but also within small scale hydropower and wave and bioenergy, just to name a few. There is far too little use being made — and the Council of State should be honest with that. This is largely due to a lack of support schemes and an excessive and bureaucratic procedure. The Council of State itself promised in the context of the climate agreement that if the scheme of green certificates were not negotiated with the Swedes, it would return to Stortinget with at least as good a support system as the green certificate would have been. Therefore, my question is: does the Council of State think that 1.2 billion kroner to Enova and the removal of the ceiling for investment aid could provide as much support for power generation for all new renewable energy projects as a certificate price of about 20 cents would have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e408	What will be the certificate price, and what will be the concrete consequences of it, will determine the market in a given situation. Putting this into concrete terms in relation to the plus/minus is difficult. What I'm absolutely sure is that the triple – and above that – of the support to generate renewable energy provides, and will deliver results. We'll see when, for example. for heat, that there is now an investment of 8 billion kroner to get pipes on the ground, which is a basis for bioenergy. The representative raised the question of small power. Here we see that the main challenge has been the concession treatment so far – there have been many applications and great interest in building. Now we spend twice as much money in the NVE to get the concession requests processed. That means that small-scale projects come up faster than they would otherwise have done. In the case of wind power, it has been recorded several times. Here we see that the costs have been so far a challenge in order to realise some of the major projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e415	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e418	There have been several Council changes in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. But the government's work on prohibitive energy has not been affected by these state council changes — it has been systematically poor and inadequately independent of who has been the Council of State. The result is that Norway is a slowdown in renewable energy production and that, despite its high potential, we are not exploiting it. The main reason is that today's government has removed green certificates. It would have been a much more powerful support system than today's through Enova. The Council of State has previously said that it is now negotiating with Sweden with a view to putting in place a green certificate system. It was part of the climate agreement with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Can the Council of State guarantee that a green certificate market, a cooperation between Norway and Sweden will be established during the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e425	It is not possible to guarantee something that is about a negotiation between two parties. I think that's easy to understand. What I can guarantee is that the trolled Norwegian side is big. I am sending one of the very first days of my State Secretary to Sweden to intensify and keep up the debate. I will have meetings on this in connection with the Nordic-Baltic ministerial meeting in Copenhagen next week. So my commitment to the matter is great. I am thinking of this with a view to finding a solution, in line with the ambitions and the leadership that the representative here is presenting. I also believe that there is a lot of excitement in relation to the certificate market during the day. I myself had a conversation with Commissioner Piebalgs on Friday, both on the fact that the EU facilitates the smooth functioning of a Norwegian-Swedish certification market within the framework of the renewable directive, and that the opportunities offered by the renewable directive in relation to a bilateral certification market between the different EU and Norway countries can work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e433	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e436	I want to ask my question to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. On behalf of just the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, a report has been prepared on the experience of the relocation of state jobs. It concludes that government institutions operate as well — and often better — after being moved out of a capital. It further concludes that it is not just good district policy, but that it is even such that businesses are becoming more vital and more effective in the new places. Of course, it is also important for the new places to have such jobs. Before the 2005 rollover election, the Central Party promised to move 15 pst. of the State jobs out of Oslo. This represented under 6,000 jobs — and, of course, in relation to the inflating of the budgets that have been in this period of government, there are many more today. What has happened during this government? The answer is that the number of State jobs in Oslo has increased in scope – just the opposite of what the Centre Party promised. Three district centres have been established around 17 – and I repeat 17 – jobs. It makes a point of that. The Bondevik II government was the one who really acted. In 2003, eight inspections were adopted by Oslo, and nearly 1000 skilled jobs were moved out, to a great deal of joy for the various locations around the country. The previous government also led a much better district policy in this area. Is the Council of State agreeing that excessive efforts have been made to establish skilled jobs in the districts of Norway under this government? When and where does the Council of State see that these 6,000 jobs are to be moved? Is the Minister of State of the Central Party, with primary responsibility for district policy, comfortable to sit in government when the opposite of what the voters were promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e449	I can confirm to the representative of Kongshaug here the report ordered from my department, which shows experience from other countries, and which shows that whether we talk about Australia, Canada, Sweden or England, they have a government localization policy that works. This means that, during a transitional period, farms operate equally well or better. But then it's like the Center Party went to the elections, we didn't get a full impact on Soria Moria. So if Kongshaug looks up there, he'll find, in spite of an excellent government basis, that at this point Soria Moria says that relocation of state jobs is going to take place outside Oslo in an assessment of each case. The government has followed up. It's e.g. the head office of Health South-East in Hamar, an example of which is the relocation of the Defence Inspectors-General, and this is just an example of the establishment of the District Centre. What the district centre also shows is that when we establish a new state enterprise in Sogndal, in Steinkjer, in Alstadhaug, applications with just a lot of competence are going on. When one was to assign people, there were actually 242 seekers for 17 settings. When it comes to the Central Party, and when it comes to the Central Party's Central Party election program, we suggest – it is not yet settled – that we put a roof in Oslo for the various activities. And then, of course, the Center Party has now got new moments with this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e456	It is clear that the Council of State is full of good intentions and is talking hot about jobs in the district. But it is the total lack of practical political implementation. According to yesterday’s position, the financial committee is over 20 pst. of the state jobs in Oslo — the double of what it was actually supposed to be in relation to the population. Especially in difficult times now, those jobs should have come to places that were hard hit. In the nation on Saturday we could read that the representative Ola Borten Moe praised the Bondevik II government for moving 1,000 jobs out of Oslo. "Many of us dream of getting something like that," he said. ‘This is a wise policy’, he continues. This cannot be interpreted differently than a strong longing for a different policy – the Bondevik II stood for it. Does the Council of State also have such a longing after this government has completely failed in its district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e467	That's what the government council, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, will answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e470	This government council was the biggest representative in the previous period and praised the impending government for the courage and the crew they had when they moved out so many state jobs. An evaluation of the relocation has now been carried out. It is the Council of State Heidi Grande Røys who is responsible for it. It shall lie in the course of the spring. Let me say that I know it has different effects with regard to the relocations that are done, so it's good that we get an evaluation on the track. But I think the report that was in the A magazine last Friday just shows how people with a high level of competence can get new opportunities if it is provided for competence/workplaces outside the most central Ausland area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e477	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e480	I'm a fan of being honest, even when it's uncomfortable – even in this room. We know the proud history of the Central Party and the main cause of politics; fighting for a regional balance; fighting for the failure of the movement flows to go one way – and soon they can settle the situation under this government. But I have to say that the movement flows have never gone more unilaterally to central strokes. Of course, it is not the fault of the Centre Party, it has of course with the general economic times, pressure on the labour market, etc. to do. I'm honest enough to admit that. However, the few instruments available to correct regional imbalances have not been put into practice: to move state institutions, as the previous government succeeded, and did, and was recognised. Then I have to say, is it not frustrating for the district councils to see that, given the central party's main responsibility in politics, they have been in a company where they are not allowed to achieve results for three years now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e487	I think it's written in capital letters on this state council – and on many others: I really like the company that I'm part of. I believe that this government has had much to do with regional and regional policy, for example. 30 billion more in free income for municipalities, a significant strengthening of the transport sector. Even agricultural policy has been given a new boost. In addition, the differentiated employer fee is again in place. The counties are becoming much more important as regional development actors from 1 January 2010. In addition, there are a number of other measures that concern industrial policy. Then there is the right that the representative Sponheim says – the centralization that has now taken place has occurred in a high economic cycle. Nobody knows what it would be like if we hadn't taken action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e494	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e497	Yesterday, the Minister of Local Affairs received another interesting report, namely the report ‘Centralisation Prize’. And we can say that if centralisation had had a price, then the price should have gone to Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, for she has been responsible for the period of the strongest centralization we have seen in Norway. But it must be a great comfort to the municipal minister to read the report as one of the centre party's breakthroughs in Soria Moria, namely to investigate the negative consequences of centralisation – not the net effect, but only the negative effects. Report establishes: ‘Summary does not provide the basis for the analysis to conclude strongly that centralisation has consistently negative effects on neither individuals, regions nor the nation as a whole.’ Is the Minister of State happy to finally conclude that the struggle against centralisation, which in many ways is the soul of the Central Party, does not exist – that the Central Party no longer has a soul?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e508	I must honestly admit that I do not read the report as clearly as Bent Höie now does. This is a very difficult project - it is a main report, and there are 14 interim reports. I got them in her yesterday. I have not gone through all the pages, but in the orientation I received, it is clearly stated that centralisation costs. It would otherwise be quite unlikely that both the Right Town Councillor in Bergen and Erling Lae in Oslo would continue to demand extra funds, precisely because centralization costs, both in Bergen and in Oslo. Fortunately, measures have been put in place. So we don't know what centralization would be like if we hadn't had measures to put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e515	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e518	The Christian People's Party had wanted the Center Party to move out some state jobs. But we see that the council is sorry that it hasn't happened, and that it was lost in the Soria Moria statement – enough about it. In addition, the Christian People's Party greatly appreciated whether the Centre Party had managed to transfer tasks to our municipalities and municipalities. Nor could the Senterpartiet deliver in the regional reform. Yes, it was moved a bit, but far from the extent to which I believe the Council of State had hoped. So my question becomes, simply: is the Council of State just as not comfortable with what happened in the context of the regional reform, as she is with the relocation of state jobs? And in the course of that, will she in the last part of her Council of State fight more to get jobs and jobs out into District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e527	I can reassure Mr. Dryersdal that every time it's about creating a new state enterprise outside Oslo, there's a discussion going on in the government, in line with the Soria Moria statement. That's what makes some jobs set up outside Oslo. But moving existing businesses is not a basis for doing so after the Soria Moria Declaration. So for the administration reform. I am particularly pleased that we were able to move the long list of tasks that we were given in connection with the administrative reform. We're on track. Decisions are made in Stortinget. A preconstruction is now taking place in the state. The county councils will become more powerful regional development actors, taking over 80 pst. from the road network and gain new jobs in agriculture, culture and the environment. What is now important is to ensure that the start date is 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e534	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e537	I'm asking the question to the Minister of Energy. In three years we have had three different energy ministers. Everyone's had a lot of commitment, according to them. Everyone has boasted of historical bets. But none of them can show any significant results, perhaps with the exception of the bet on district heating. We have not received a single new windmill in Norway, despite historical investment in wind power. All measures in Central Norway — which the Council of State boasted when we discussed windmills recently — have been initiated by the Bondevik II government. There are measures undertaken by State networks, with the exception of the two mobile gas power stations that are built. The government should be able to take credit for that, especially SV, but I don't think there are very many others who think it's something to boast about. But I noticed that the Council of State said earlier today that he focuses on cost-effective solutions. I think that's positive, because it's an important signal. Then it is very striking that the government does not mention hydropower or small power in its crisis package, because if there is one energy policy measure in Norway that is cost-effective, where one could have major impacts both on energy and employment, without having to use substantial funds from the state body, it is in the hydropower sector. But not in a word is hydropower or small force mentioned in the crisis package. In addition, the Minister of Energy has written in Dagbladet about his energy vision. Nor is hydropower mentioned in a single word. Only windmills and similar expensive measures are mentioned, while hydropower is completely excluded. The Landsforening of Energy Enterprises has estimated that one can realise 2 TWh new power during 2009 if a rate of upgrading of existing hydropower, without particular support. It can employ 2,000 to 3,000 people and is therefore a very good crisis response. Will the government bet on hydropower in its crisis package?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e548	We have put in place the most important measure to generate new hydropower, to realize new small power. It's about concession treatment. The reality is that the queue of small-scale projects that have been located in the NVE, and partly also in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, has been great, and that has been the bottleneck. So the first thing I did was make sure to increase the budgets of the NVE considerably. The NVE now has a budget for concessional treatment that has doubled in relation to what it was when we joined. The representative of Solvik-Olsen may think that it is a little exciting action – or what he may think – but I believe that it is extremely targeted to realize small power, and that it actually also produces results. Some of the entry point here with regard to my priorities is that small-scale projects are largely shown to have sustainability on their own. There are highly profitable projects, which are realized if only the system around them works well enough, and they are given the opportunity – through concessional treatment, etc. – to realise their own initiatives. The need to enter and contribute national investment aid and money is significantly greater in areas other than small-scale renewable energy. Then we're in the middle of the rest of the debate on how to facilitate the building of heating infrastructure and to facilitate renewable efforts for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e557	There is no one on the Storting who has criticized the Government for increasing the funding of the NVE. On the contrary, the criticism has been that it has been too late. This Council of States has not been able to do so, for that criticism was directed at the two previous Councils. So this government has been running for three and a half years, not just the last year that this council has been sitting as an oil and energy minister. That's the problem. It's not continuity. There's obviously no political memory of what's happened in three and a half years, because you're dealing only with the last eight months that you've been in power. My criticism is that there is no equal treatment of different renewable energy technologies. There is one framework condition for wind power, while there are completely different framework conditions for bioenergy, where there are also no support schemes for those who want to invest. They were removed at the same time as one removed the aid schemes that had been tried in small power plants. If the Council of State were concerned with cost-effective solutions, he should ensure that there was one aid scheme that was technology neutral, so that all good projects could compete against each other, and then the best ones were realized. I challenge the Council of State one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e566	I am a little surprised at the end of that line, because what underlies Enova's work is having a cost-effective input. That's exactly where the discussion of wind power comes in, because we see that by energy efficiency improvement you get about twice as much left for each invested crown as we do in relation to wind power. Enova has therefore spent most of its resources on energy efficiency improvement and heat production. There the state has been remarkably good, while the costs so far from wind power have been very high. Enova has therefore channelled resources towards the two former areas. It is precisely that cost-effectiveness has been at the root of what has caused us to see a turn. That is also why an exclusive measure of wind power was set, for one so that if wind power was to be given priority at all, one had to have a separate pot for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e573	There will be four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e576	In fact, I think the answer from the Council of State was very disappointing, because we know that the demand for new renewable and clean energy, such as hydropower, will increase in the years to come. We also know that Norway has a large exploitable potential for expanding more renewable hydropower. I can refer to Agder Energie, one of the country's biggest hydropower producers. They had plans to expand up to 0.8 TWh hydropower some time ago. It is a rather significant development potential we are talking about, but changes in the framework conditions of the Government, such as: is taxed, has made this development difficult and less profitable. Probably not Agder Energy builds out everything that's planned. Governments indicated that the best he could do was look at the concessional treatment system and streamline it. But will this Council of State consider a whole new review of the main framework conditions for Norwegian hydropower development to see if there are any things that can be done better in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e586	Whether the representative is disappointed or not is not a good thing for me to do anything about. I very much believe that the most important measure to obtain new renewable energy from water has been to deal with the applications available. This applies whether there are large or small applications. It is not that only small-scale power projects are in line for concessional treatment. There are very many good projects for the development and upgrading of existing projects. I'm very much a member of that kind of project. I myself have looked at some of the largest hydropower projects we have in Norway, such as Sira-Kvina, Ulla Vørre, etc., and I have seen the potential we have there, both in terms of general updates of the plants and the possibilities for developing them, for pumping in and power running to a greater extent than today, so that Norwegian hydropower resources can be used in a different way than they have been until now. Then I'm back to the starting point. For this reason, it is extremely important that we now have a completely different flow in the concessional process, and so things get faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e597	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e600	The reality is that the consumption of renewable energy in Norway is increasing, and it is increasing quite dramatically, while the bottom line of new renewable energy is unfortunately almost at rest. The repeated response from this state council, as from former government councils in the same department, is Enova and that they spend more money than previous governments. In fact, Enova doesn't have a hydropower program. Enova is not the answer to these questions. Isn't it time for the Council of State to start to get a little involved in the applicants' situation? It's a line that the Council of State was in on by applicants. The applicant often has funding, and the applicant has clear projects. Doesn't the Council of State ask itself the simple question: what makes it so that the foremost and best forces in this field still look at abroad as far more interesting in this area than their home country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e607	I can keep the same post one more time as I did after the previous question about hydropower, in response to what the representative Kristiansen said about applications being pending, and that projects are not being implemented. I think what we did to strengthen the NVE was extremely sensible. There are now also results, because the queue is getting smaller, and projects are being implemented. Having good hydropower projects in line with the NVE is poor resource management, and it is poor in relation to the environmental and climate challenges that we need to get good hydropower projects ahead. So the starting point for the representative Kristiansen, I fully agree, and I think we're doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e614	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e617	The world needs energy, and the world needs green energy. Just let me give you the two degree chord. If we're going to do that, we're going to have to facilitate good systems, and I think we're going to have to facilitate extraordinary systems, because the world needs it. By providing an additional tax depreciation of 7,5 pst. – times four years – we will, says the industry, be able to achieve a doubling of investments in renewable energy. This is a green investment package that the industry is asking us to assess. My question is simply: can the Council of State be willing to consider such a measure with new tax arrangements to be able to be involved in the capacity to produce more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e626	There are two ways of initiating investments in terms of what the representative here addresses. One way is to use the tax system. The other way is to use the grant instrument. I believe that the last is initially more neat and transparent than the first. Therefore, the Government does not have any plans for changes to the tax system to address individual concerns. I think that a transparent and tidy tax system where a person uses subsidies in the areas where a person wants to achieve concrete effects is reasonable, and I don't think it's that far away from the Christian People's Party also meant when they were in government. What we've done with it is triple the appropriations since the Christian People's Party was in government. So we're spending three times as much money on achieving the goals that the representative is working on. I'm proud of that. I think it's very good, and I think it just gives the result that I believe the representative and I agree that we need to get to, produce new, renewable energy to make sure that it's the two-degree goal and not the six-degree threat that becomes what we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e633	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e636	Last week it was a proposal from the Government that was drawn because the opinion did not understand the genius of the proposal. It's a bit like this in renewable policies too. Neither the energy industry, the environmental movement, nor the opposition understands the genius and the commitment that one shows here, because it is not related to what one does in practical policy. So it's not like this government is paying more than the previous one would have done on renewable energy. The previous government had a green certificate system that, with its main instrument, would trigger far more funds for this sector than the current government adds. I have a specific question: the staffing of the NVE is finally strengthened. This may result in more than one project being dealt with, but also in the Oil and Energy Ministry queues for both hydropower, wind and district heating projects, because they are anchored. Can the Council of State ensure that the resource situation in the ministry will also be adapted to an increase in the amount of processing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e643	It is nice to be able to round this question point by saying to the representative Kvassheim that I will take care of that, and I am doing that. We now have a strong focus on just making sure that it's not the Oil and Energy Department that becomes the clog in the system, when the NVE becomes able to handle more things than before, and I feel that we're doing it well. It would be a poor use of resources if we spent so much money on the NVE and yet we did not get the applications and matters processed more quickly. It's a reality that a lot of these cases are being appealed to, and therefore there's a connection between what's happening in the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So it's a nice ending to a Question Time to be able to answer yes to the question from the representative Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e650	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e656	There will be a change in the question list, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question No 6, by Mr Sahl to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, lapses because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e668	My question is this: ‘The work of new legislation on savings banks and the improvement of the status of the basic fund certificate as an equity instrument has gone too late. When the Banking Law Commission now submits its proposal for amendments, will the Council of State facilitate consultation and the necessary legislative proposals to be submitted to the Budget for consideration during the spring session?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e677	The answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e682	At least that was an effective answer. Svein Fleet might have an addendum here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e687	I have, President. It's an excellent answer, and it's an important answer, because this has been a long process, not only during this government, but also in the past. Since savings banks and basic funds certificates are on the loss, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question about the proposition that has now been made, about the law on the state financial fund and the law on the state bond fund, where you write about dividend restrictions. There's a section where the department writes especially about the basic funds certificates. I would like to know, when you say that'solid banks with profits will be in the position to distribute dividends', if you think that because you get a loan, there will be restrictions. You can still be just as solid as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e696	Let me just relate a few words to the job that the Banking Law Commission has done in terms of the savings banking sector, because they have done a very fast job. The Banking Law Commission received a mandate from the Ministry of Finance in June 2008, and on 9 January they presented a NOU on this issue, which is thus about the possibility of structural and business changes in the savings banking sector, together with a draft modernised law on equity certificates, previously known as the Basic Fund Capital Certificate. This NOU was sent to the hearing on the same day, i.e. 9 January. The hearing period was set at 6 February, and the Ministry of Finance has previously, in press releases and in other ways, informed that this matter is being submitted to the Stortinget in April this year. So there has been nothing of any kind of a disaster from this government in this matter. With regard to the question of how to deal with the dividend issue in relation to the financial fund and the various instruments related to it, the question of preferential capital for commercial banks and savings banks, I would like to clarify it when the Stortinget has invited me to consult on that issue and other issues related to these instruments, on Friday morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e703	I would like to commend the Council of State for speedy action in this matter, since that is what she herself adds to in her second round. It's very good that this is going fast. Then I have a certain understanding that she won't discuss what's in the proposition with me until she's been in the committee. I hope, however, that she takes this back, because, as it is written, the basic fund certificates are in a special position. They are very important for the whole savings banking system – at least for those who have basic funds certificates – and if too many restrictions are imposed on them, the conditions are too difficult, there will in the long term be difficulties in obtaining equity. I have been out to get a good confirmation on it during this season, and I understand that I might have received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e710	The justification that the dividend reduction issue has been presented exactly as it is in the proposition is among other things. consideration of the savings banks and the basic funds certificates and the wish that savings banks should also be able to avail themselves of the instruments contained in the proposed financial fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e718	The question is as follows: ‘In the 2009 budget, fixed technical installations for construction are segregated in a separate balancing group. Prior to the change of the regulation, there was a long way to go in full deductibility in the replacement of technical installations due to the so-called standard improvement criterion, whereas the corresponding replacements are now considered mandatory to activate new acquisitions and must be depreciated. It may incur significant additional costs for major maintenance projects. Does the Council of State consider that there is reason to consider adjustments to the new rules in order to avoid such impacts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e727	In the 2009 government budget, fixed technical installations in construction were separated as a separate balancing group for separate depreciation with a depreciation rate of 10 pst. In the past, the rule was that fixed installations were to be depreciated together with the building, i.e. with a batch of 2 pst. for commercial buildings and 4 pst. for factories, warehouses and other commercial buildings. In the case of new constructions with technical installations, the change is an advantage for the company. The installations are then depreciated significantly faster than before. The remaining depreciation of installations in older buildings also receives a higher depreciation rate by separating the installations into a separate balancing group. Ordinary maintenance without the replacement of older installations is not affected by the change in the rules. Such maintenance is directly costable both before and after this change. Under the old rules, full replacement of older installations could also be considered as directly cost-effective maintenance. But this only applied as far as the new installation stayed within the same standard as the old one. The additional costs of standard raising had to be recorded as depreciation with the construction, i.e. at a low depreciation rate. The old rules could thus stand in the way of standard improvements, e.g.: environmental considerations or technological developments. The new rules significantly increase the rate of depreciation for such standard improvements. This was an important part of the reason for the conversion. Isolatedly, the conversion has led to the tightening up that the representative Fleet points out – but it is isolated. This is that the full installation replacement within the same standard is no longer considered as cost-attainable maintenance but as a newly acquired installation with 10 pst. depreciation rate. This tightening is a consequence of the other changes, but also has in principle good reasons for it. The theme here is that an enterprise acquires a significant means of operating in the form of a new technical installation in an older building. It is then natural to depreciate the installation cost over an appropriate number of years, regardless of whether the new installation replaces an old installation or one. For the purposes of an overall assessment, this limited restriction should be considered to be fully acceptable. The deduction regime for technical installations in construction has in total become clearly better than before, and it is wrong to consider each element of the regime separately. I therefore see no reason to adjust the regime in the direction that the representative fleet suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e747	I agree that the new scheme alone – I guess I say – has good effects for new buildings. But it is a fact that in very many buildings where you replace the total technical installations – and let me say, for example, that if you can't get a similar technical installation of the same type as the one that was, you have to choose at some level – you could spend it all in the past. It is obvious that there are a number of installations around Norwegian constructions that will have matured for a total replacement. That means these can no longer be spent directly. When the council says this isn't a big deal, that this is isolated, I actually don't think she's right. I think we have significant maintenance costs around, and that the maintenance could have been done just with such a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e754	I totally disagree with the representative Fleet that there has been an improvement in isolation through the change that was made by separating technical installations into a separate balancing group. It is the overall impact that makes this a much better solution, and it is therefore also well received around business Norway and the business world. So I believe that the representative fleet and everyone else have to look at the overall impact of the changes that have been made, and that is positive for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e759	The fact that it is a good overall effect does not mean that one should not consider whether one could have the good effects of a previous system. And that's what we're discussing here. To be constructive, the Council of State has already refused to take a closer look at this, but what you could imagine here is simply relatively simple transitional rules within a short time horizon, such as: the new regime had a transitional rule of two to three years, and it was then possible to make these changes to its buildings and spend them. It would have been a very good measure right in the times we're in, to increase the activity in the construction sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e766	After all, the Storting has just given a position on the package of measures with significant tax proposals aimed at business, not exactly this scheme, but other schemes. So it has been implemented and through co-treatment improved a number of business-related schemes. I believe that together we have seen technical installations and the problem that the fleet has addressed has found a good solution that has been well received. It is not that if you pick out individual elements in the tax systems, it draws a good, comprehensive picture of what has been done. It is a significant improvement that is now in place and that I am fully committed to. I maintain my answer that the job is now done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e774	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘The army has no more soldiers to dispatch to international missions because not enough young people are called to the duty of protection and that, according to the Defence, exercises and training are at a dangerously low level. Does the Council see this problem, and in that case how will she solve it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e783	Let me first point out that this government has increased participation in operations abroad since we took over in the autumn of 2005, in line with the Soria Moria declaration. Let me also underline that our soldiers are making a very solid effort out there, which I am constantly getting feedback about from all our collaborators. The army has been the largest contributor to operations abroad in recent years. However, I would like to point out that other sectors of defence and joint institutions also provide robust strength support. The composition of today's forces in Afghanistan shows this quite clearly. New from 2008 onwards is also the recruitment of volunteers for foreign operations. When this government took over, the Army was manned at a very low level. I've taken the consequences of that. For the fourth year in a row, the Army is considerably strengthened. During my period as the Council of State, the Army has increased by over 1,000 permanent employees, i.e. with more than 40 pst. from the beginning of 2006. The new long-term plan proposes to continue strengthening the Army, especially in small and important areas of competence. This will reduce the burden on personnel who are critical to our participation abroad. Recruitment to operations abroad is also ensured by the obligation of protection. In order to ensure recruitment, the Government is proposing to continue the number of guardians at about the same level as today. This will be high enough to make material contributions in the future. We recognize that in the last long-term there was too low a level of practice in the Army. This does something to the Government, and there is a significant increase in the training activity of the Army in the current long-term. Strengthening the number of annual works, the necessary number of compulsory and improved practice and training means that the Government has taken action to facilitate increased investment in operations abroad, in line with the Government Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e802	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that the Storting is very positive to the effort that is being made outside, among other things. in Afghanistan. What I'm afraid is that we have too few soldiers to send out, and that the ones we send out are too often out. In the case of specialists, they're often out one to one, i.e. one period out and one period at home. It goes without saying that it's too small. As it is now, it might be one to two, or three. The desirable thing might have been one to five, so that you really had time to be at home – coached at home and at home with your family etc. – and then got out again, if you wanted to. It is said to read that the army will save approx. $1 billion in 2009. It means less training, like shooting, and fewer days of practice. I believe that the number of days of practice that a soldier is out is now too low. It's down to 17 days of practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e811	Let me first say that if the representative Bredvold had read St.prp. No 1, he would also have seen that the Army's budget for 2009 has a real increase from 2006. During these four years, the government has actually increased the budget to the Army by 760 million. kr. That's an increase at the base of 100 million. kr in the current year. It's not relevant for the Army to save $1 billion in 2009. It's completely wrong. As for the number of days of practice, as I also said, we want to increase the number of days of practice. But 17 days of practice are really misleading, because the cold response and the daily training and practice, which of course also happen, are also added. Of course, in terms of the number of staff that can be out, we're recruiting from the forces we have. We know that there has been wear on some special skill, and that's why we're increasing these.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e818	I can reassure the Council of State that Bredvold has read a lot, including what the Council of State refers to. Brigadier Rune Jakobsen of the Army Staff says, among other things: one of the things I'm referring to: ‘Over the defence’s own web service, Rune Jacobsen describes the ‘exercise volume’ as dangerously low in recent years. To the evening post, he confirms that it will hardly increase in 2009 and that the average over the past few years has been down to 17 days of practice.’ So, «hazardly low», and then we're going to send soldiers out. The question I'm going to ask now is going to Homeland soldiers. I thought the Home Security mission was to protect important Norwegian social interests in a crisis situation, but then we send home security soldiers out. I have no objection that the Home Guard soldiers are out, but primarily they must take care of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e832	First of all, the main tasks of Homeland Protection are at home. First of all, the main tasks of the Norwegian defence are also at home. That's in the first row because we have a defense. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is a very high level of competence, especially among the response forces in Home Security, and it enhances their ability to prepare at home that they can also participate in and participate in missions, because it is competent in itself. In terms of the number of days of practice, it's very misleading, because here comes the Cold Response as well as the daily exercise and practice. It's not right that the Army will save $1 billion in the current year. It is not what is in the budget, and it is the budget that applies – not what may have to be in some newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e842	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health the following questions: ‘In order to ensure equivalent healthcare throughout the country, the ambulance service is, among other things, an important piece. The 2005 regulation on emergency medical services introduced requirements for two-person ambulance crews, specific personnel competence requirements and attendance requirements as a general rule. Will the Council of State evaluate whether the minimum crew requirement of the regulation is complied with in such a way that the regulation has contributed to better emergency medical services outside the hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e851	Strengthening the ambulance service is a priority area. A lot has happened in medical technology and treatment since prehospital services were reviewed ten years ago. So the government wants to know how we can best develop the entire prehospital field. We have appointed a working group to review the prehospital services and propose changes where appropriate. The main emphasis of the work shall be on the car and boat ambulance services and the AMK centres. The team shall provide its report during this month. In the case of the ambulance service, the investigation shall be based on existing and ongoing investigations and documentation related to the role of the ambulance service in the emergency medical chain, including the relationship with voluntary teams and what is called ‘first responders’. It shall also take account of developments in the field of emergency response and the emergency response service. The team shall assess the adequacy of basic training for ambulance workers and propose any changes. It shall assess whether the training has sufficient capacity, including as regards the number of apprenticeships, the age of candidates and the content of the service. It shall also assess the need for any further training for ambulance staff and propose the content of such further training. The aim is to ensure competence requirements in line with medical and technological developments. Emergency medical services outside hospitals require ambulances and ambulances to be operated by at least two health professionals. This shall contribute to ensuring the patient’s proper treatment and follow-up during transport. I have been informed by the Health Directorate that two-man service today is no problem, as all ambulances are now two-man officers. The above-mentioned working group shall provide an overview of the extent to which the requirements of the Regulation on the competence of ambulance staff have been met for the country as a whole and for each health region. A transitional period of five years was provided for when the regulation entered into force. Preliminary figures show that about 292 full-time employees and about 60 of the part-time employees work except for the requirements of the regulation on competence. Most of these work in the three northernmost counties and in the North West. I have been informed that most healthcare companies have developed plans to ensure that the requirements of the regulation are met by 1 April 2010. In addition, the regulation on emergency medical services outside hospitals states that, as a general rule, the ambulances should be staffed by an bystander. The working group shall identify the extent to which the requirements of the regulation on bystander watch are met and assess the use of the exemption provisions of the regulation. Preliminary figures from the Health Directorate suggest that at the lower edge of 20 pst. of 412 day-old ambulances absent from service 24 hours a day. About 48 pst. of 102 ambulances operating parts of the day have not been manned by a bystander. Absence of bystander may be due to a low number of emergency peaks per week. year or that the personnel reach the ambulance within a reasonable time after the call. It is in line with the derogations provided for in the regulation. The government is now awaiting the report from the working group and will follow it up in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e866	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I believe that the working group that is to present its position to the Council of State within a relatively short period of time, according to the answer, has also evaluated the regulation. My concern has been a number of concerns over the last few months and the weeks that the manning is not good enough, and that the regulation's demand for bystander is actually broken. I can also mention that just a few weeks ago we were able to read that Health Finnmark will cut ten jobs in the ambulance service, despite working 30 years in overtime. The trusted one there said that more should be done, so that you can get on a legal level. So they're saying that the regulation is breaking. Then, of course, it's important that the Council of State, when he gets this setting, ensure that we get equivalence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e875	Of course, the questions raised here by the representative Davøy are very important. We see that the ambulances are playing an increasingly important role in the emergency medical supply. Both the diagnosis and the initiation of treatment in the ambulances are impressive. Not least, the competence of the ambulance staff is often very important in view of serious disorders, such as heart attacks, cerebral bleeding, etc. If we have good, whole emergency medical services, it's not just questions about saving lives, but also about what kind of life you can have after you've survived. For example: brain bleeding, of course, is competence very important. So the representative Davøy is concerned about, I'm also very concerned about. It is a very important area in which questions are asked, and therefore it is good that we now have an overall review.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e884	This with competence is very important. I would like to refer to St.meld. No 22 for 2007–08, on social security, interoperability and coordination, which came from the Minister of Justice last year. Regional AMK Forum said last August that they were dissatisfied with the definition of an ambulance, because they were more concerned that this was a tool for moving people than that one should have the competence to save lives and initiate life-saving treatment in ambulances. Therefore, competence is very important. I want to ask the Council of State a little more question. The National Center for Medical Medicine has recently issued a statement that it may be possible to halve the medical care provision in this country. I know that the Council of State has not taken a decision on this. Does the Council of State see that if you were to do so, if you were to halve the offer, it would be even more important to have competence in ambulance cars as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e891	What I can say about the last issue that the representative, Mr. Davøy, is that we have been very concerned about producing these recommendations from the Medical Competence Centre, precisely because it is such an important part of the interaction reform that we are now about to complete. Medical care is a very important part of the community health service we are now describing for the future, and the new role of the caregiver. Half of the deputies don't run a medical watch. As a result, we very often use bad doctors — simply — in medical practice. I think one of the reasons why you don't get doctors to drive is that the guard load is too high, and it's too poorly organized. So this is a very important part of what we are now working on intensively in the decision-making phase of the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e901	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘The evening post has on 4 February 2009 an article in which the Advocate General is deeply concerned that no more crimes are resolved. Not even the government's low goal of resolving 38 pst. The Attorney General believes that the police will be able to do so. The Oslo police in particular are struggling, which affects the clearance on a country-by-country basis. Since the Council of State has ambitions in this field, is he satisfied with progress, and how will it feel if the Government does not have the power to achieve its own objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e910	I can immediately say that we are not satisfied with the progress we see in terms of the percentage of information, but at the same time we hope that the measures taken and which I will refer to in my answer will be able to remedy the situation. The main objective of the Police and National Police College is to reduce crime. Annual statistics of the Directorate of Police for 2008 show a decrease in the number of offences reported from 2007 to 2008 of 2.8 pst. The number of registered crimes has been reduced by about 24 000 notifications, or 8.4 pst., over the period 2004–08 — these are the notifications registered. It's a goal of the Government to increase the clarity of both the crime that affects people most, and more serious crime, and I mention violence against women and children in particular. Therefore, the average national rate of detection of crimes was set at 38 pst. in 2006. That was the goal. This was done both because it was important to have a clear target, and because the Soria Moria Declaration contained measures that we meant, and still believe, are important to increase the percentage of information. What I particularly want to point to there is increased manning and increased use of DNA. First of all, the situation in the police force has been a challenge for us for years, mainly because it is trained for a few policemen. The inquirer and I agree on that. The impact of previous years’ low student admissions on today’s manning situation is well documented in the police directorate’s report ‘Police against 2020’. The government has taken several steps to strengthen staffing. I've said that many times here in Stortinget. Among other things, in the last two years, 432 students this year have increased to 552. So this means that in this four-year period, we're going to train over 600 more students than we did in the last period. In addition, I would like to point out that in the package of measures to be addressed in Stortinget, on the financial situation for 2009, the police were soon allocated 460 new civil acts. It's a significant investment. Together with the annual works contained in Regestinga’s proposal for the current year, it provides a significant opportunity for upgrading compared to annual works. From 1 September 2008 — not so far back in time — we may have taken the most important step to increase the percentage of clearance, especially in the case of a winning offence. Then the police were given the opportunity to increase the use of DNA during research. We're going to spend over 100 million this year. kr per. We granted $64 million last year. kr for the DNA reform. This goes for example: For central funding of samples, but also to cover the large volume of samples that will come in as we now expand the registers. I have hopes that there will be very important measures to increase the percentage of information, especially in the areas of crime where we are now following. That's why it's my opinion that you now have the opportunity to see that there's going to be a rise in the clearance rate when these reforms start to work, because the purpose of these reforms is just to get the clearance rate up. I also remember that the country-wide clearance rate has been stable around 36 pst. I have numbers back from 2004, where it was also 36.0 pst. It's been moving around 36 pst. – a little up in my period – and is the last year at 36.0.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e927	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When the Council of State goes through and refers to the efforts of the Government, it is in my opinion a little amazing that you do not have a greater ambition on behalf of the Government than to increase the percentage of clarification by 2 pst. - from 36 p.m. to 38 pst. But there may be other reasons why the Council of State has chosen that approach. I understand that the Government's ambition for the current year is an explanation of 38 p.m. If I don't remember correctly, the ambition was last year was 36 pst. – it is possible that I remember incorrectly, but I believe it was about there. If that's how the DNA reform is the key to this, I assume that we have people out there who can do a job, among other things. in the case of the collection of evidence. It is clear that education for new people takes time, as the Council of State itself has been. We also have a decrease in the number of reviews, which, in my opinion, is not automatically due to the fact that we are doing better police work, but I think this is due to the fact that some people are unable to report. 2008 was a particularly difficult year. Does the Council of State also believe that the public’s experience of distance from the police can contribute and be a factor in a decline in the number of reviews?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e938	Our ambition is to increase the percentage of information. If it were to rise above our ambition, nothing would please the Government any more. I believe that the representative Ellingsen has a good point when he says we have to wait for the large coals from the Police College to be trained. What do you do in the meantime? So this year, we are phased in 460 extra civilian positions to get police positions released. It is calculated against 280 jobs. This is a bet that costs a billion dollars and that you have chosen to put on the table now. The Joint Police Association has made proposals for between 200 and 300 posts, and the Progress Party has made commendable proposals, and there is clearly a size of the package that implies, among other things, that. Oslo will receive 100 additional posts for transportation, for security in the warehouse, etc., to free police capacity. I have to say that this is the answer in relation to being able to do something about the manning situation in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e947	I thank you again for the answer. It is affordable, as the Council of State says, that this has been addressed with the package of measures. What's still respectful about reporting is that it came six, seven, eight weeks after we dealt with the state budget for the current year, where you didn't see this need. It's a little bit, once again with respect to reporting, mysterious that there needs to be a global financial crisis before you see the need for investment. I think that's paradoxical, from my point of view. The main challenge to achieve the Government's ambition is likely to be that the Oslo Police must be able to do a better job than they have done today. Oslo has a large volume of profit crime. They have the lowest percentage of information there, if I don't remember faults, and thus, in my opinion, has the greatest challenge. What kind of concrete action does the Council of State have to take to make Oslo deliver better on the challenges it faces in terms of profitability? Is there something we should do organisationally or otherwise, that can remedy the situation, so that the citizens of Oslo are cared for as well as you stay in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e956	We have to do more things to increase the percentage of intelligence, and I've been into it in general for the whole of Norway. It's the same tools we have to use for Oslo, but Oslo has a special challenge. That makes Oslo actually get 100 police posts, as I said before. That's a lot. It will free up a lot of police capacity that you just need to deploy to help increase the percentage of information in the areas where we are struggling, among other things. profit-criminality. One has the relationship in Oslo that much of the profit crime that is recorded is that one has lost mobile phones etc. There will still be a large number of relationships that you won't be able to get to the bottom of. Then I would also like to point out that the DNA reform is important to Oslo. We've got a lot of clarifications on the basis of DNA, which is very joyous. I expect that number to rise. The last thing I want to mention is the initiative that has now been taken for an operational review of the police, whether you can use the resources better than what you're doing today, which will also have a look at Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e968	From the representative Jan Sahl to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘Lexcus is at risk of becoming an ecological and economic disaster. lice that are resistant can both eradicate wild salmonid strains and cause serious setbacks to the farming industry. On 10 December the Ministry organized a seminar on salmonmus. The experts' advice was clear. Immediate action is needed to reduce the risk of development of resistance and new treatment regimes need to be developed. Have the Council of State plans to follow up its advice, and when can we expect to see the effects of the measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e976	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e982	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘The rescue company with its ships has at all times been a safety factor for those who operate on the sea and for those who belong to it. Due to insufficient funding, the Rescue Company has announced a reduction in the number of coastal rescue skates. Are the lifebuoys included as part of the national coastal preparedness and will the Council of State engage in dialogue with the Rescue Company in order to determine the level of adequate and qualitative good service at which the rescue skates are included?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e991	As I referred to in a written reply on 19 January of this year to questions from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug about the Rescue Company, it is the government's view that the company is doing an important and good job of ensuring maritime safety along our coast. The primary purpose of the company is to save lives and save values on the sea and to maintain and perform search, rescue and assistance services along the Norwegian coast. I would like to stress that the company's lifeguards are strategically stationed along the coast in dialogue with rescue authorities and user organisations. I would also like to mention that in recent years the rescue company has been given new ships with higher speed and thus greater mobility than before. I would also like to stress that the Government has significantly strengthened the allocation of both the internal coastguard and the rescue helicopter services in recent years. This is part of the overall picture when assessing preparedness along the Norwegian coast. A dialogue has been established between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Coastal Affairs and the Rescue Company where both the company's duties, strategy and economic situation are key elements. In addition, the Ministry’s underlying office, the Coastal Agency, and the Rescue Company consider the possibility of formalising cooperation, inter alia: in the prevention of maritime safety. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the Rescue Company will continue the dialogue in 2009 and, as I have previously informed you, the company's work and economic situation will therefore be one of the points to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e1006	I would like to thank you for your answer. I note that there is a certain form of dialogue between the department and the rescue company, but nevertheless we who live along the coast, almost every year are told that now it is being taken away and that savior is being rescued. Clearly, the total resources available to the Rescue Company have fallen sharply. In 2005, it was 60 million. NOK 41 million in 2009. kr over the State budget. In addition, the games have fallen sharply. At the same time, wages and salaries have increased, the price of fuel has increased, NOx tax, etc. The rescue company is quite a voluntary organisation, but safety at sea should be the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and not the responsibility of the Minister for Culture Giske, who provides the means. This should not depend on the day-form of the Minister of Culture. My question is: is there enough funding for the Rescue Company to provide a qualitative good overall coastal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e1020	With regard to the appropriations made to the Rescue Company, it is correct that these appropriations have been reduced because the automatic revenues have fallen. There the government has just put in place a predictable arrangement, so that the rescue company knows what they will get as compensation for lost funds. The grant granted by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is a contribution to the operation and is per year. currently not a grant linked to special services. The Bondevik II Government reduced the appropriations made available to the Rescue Company in the draft budget they submitted for 2006. Then they cut by 10 million. kr. So it's probably more than the red-green government that has made priorities that make the rescue company less money. As I said, we are now going to look at our grant to the Rescue Company and how it is used, and possibly make changes to it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e1029	I thank you for that answer too. However, the situation is that in 2006, government appropriations were reduced by 10 million. kr, down to 50 million. kr. There was a surplus on automatic operation of 250 million. kr in 2006, whereas now the carry-over from tipping agents is 130 million. NOK plus 40 million. kr. There will be a significant reduction, while operating costs have increased. But don't do that. In October 2007, the Norske Veritas presented a report analysing coastal safety. One of the conclusions was that Norway seems to lack a national executive body with overall responsibility for the rescue services, and a lack of a clear relationship between the State and the Rescue Company as a private operator in terms of tasks and funding. Will the Council of State take this into account and establish an overall body of national responsibility, where the significant role of the rescue company is reflected in plans and funding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e1036	Once again, I just want to repeat that when the automatic receipts disappeared, this government put in place a scheme to ensure the voluntary organisations' predictable incomes for the future as well. As a result, the appropriations allocated to the Rescue Company by the State increased in 2009 compared to the 2008 transfers. As far as the rescue services are concerned, it is not an area of responsibility under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. It is under the Ministry of Justice, and it is also those who have to decide on the organisation and structure of this area. It is clear that the services of the rescue company here need to be seen in the context of this, for example. the Internal Coast Guard, the Rescue Helicopter Service and, in particular, the other voluntary organisations, because there are also other non-governmental organisations involved in preparedness, such as Norwegian Folkehelp, Norwegian Red Cross or Norwegian Air Ambulance. As I said, I will have a discussion with the Rescue Company in the near future about both their tasks and the agreement between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Ministry and the Rescue Company.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-11.ana.ud2021e1045	There was the last question in the ordinary Question Time. The Stortinget has then dealt with today’s file – and the meeting has been cancelled.
