ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e28	The representatives Gunvald Ludvigsen and Terje Aasland, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The former deputy representative of the South Trondelag County, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Ågot Valle on sick leave from 10 February onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on the leave of the representative, Mr Rune J. Skylaaen, to take part in an official visit to Ukraine on Tuesday 10 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of the Hordaland County, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Sigrid Brattabø Handegard are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e73	Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken and Sigrid Brattabø Handegard are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e79	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e98	There's a lot to talk about in our world, so I appreciate that today I have time – in addition to a common big step – to make this foreign policy statement. As a contrast to the beginning of 2008, 2009 appears to be a starting point for the crisis. The financial crisis enters the real economy, it is now global and has ring-fences in all corners of the world. This has consequences for jobs, well-being, migration and development, especially for the poorest, who are also affected by food crises. Modern states, including in our neighbourhoods, are rocking in their stability. Local and regional conflicts are extricating, wars are waged against cities and villages; civilians – children, women and men – must bear unbearable burdens. It happens in Gaza, in Sri Lanka, in Congo, north of Uganda, in Darfur and in other battlefields outside the constant attention of global mass media. We start the year with a whole series of big, unresolved issues where progress is becoming small or meaningless, as in the disarmament field where the established nuclear powers hesitate to cut their arsenals, and where new states – like Iran – continue their secretaries in the nuclear activities of the country. We are ten months away from the Copenhagen climate summit, where the world's countries will show that we have no time to lose, and that political will can be measured against science's crystal clear recommendations on heavily reduced greenhouse gas emissions and new principles for burden-sharing and technology transfer. And we are, more than 60 years after the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, still witnessing that universal rights are broken, capital punishments are executed, people die of hunger and disease, and conflicts build between people with different religious beliefs, ethnicity and culture. At the same time, however, a different contrast emerges in 2009 that is more optimistic and filled with political ambition: a renewed belief that crisis and conflict can and must be met with active use of diplomacy, strong international cooperation and action. The nations of the world are not powerless. They can face the crisis if they have political will. The deployment of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States on 20 January this year gives concrete hope for a new gift from the world's most powerful nation. President Obama has not just put the United States on a new course. He has changed the international agenda, raised engagement policy, underlined international law and human rights, and addressed climate challenges. The contrast of the last eight years is already marked. The new president leaves no doubt: the United States continues to have ambitions to assume leadership responsibilities. The challenges are many, but the president is all aware of this: they will be met. Internationally, the United States will not waive the right and the ability to use power. But in his speech of accession, Obama draws inspiration from leaders «who understood that power alone does not protect us or give us the right to do what we want». He emphasises that former American leaders fought fascism and communism, not only with ‘missiles and tanks, but with solid alliances and strong convictions’. From the first day onwards, the new US administration sends a signal of renewed commitment to close all the issues characterised by crisis at the beginning of 2009: economic decline, the situation in Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan and the Middle East, nuclear weapons and disarmament, human rights violations, global warming, deep poverty. And then we also have to know that there are no simple solutions. Obama has no magic wand. Many of the basic interests of the United States remain the same after the presidential change. The President's primary task is to safeguard American interests, as the mandate of the Norwegian Government is to promote Norwegian interests. Often, as in the outgoing administration, we will have similar interests with the United States. But Norwegian views, including under Obama, will, from time to time, deviate from the positions of the United States. But it's been a long time since we've experienced such a marked shift in foreign policy approaches, inspiration and emphasising of instruments. We're meeting a changed American worldview where we're no longer talking about "us" to "them". The world's strongest power acknowledges that all the world's countries are interdependent and deserving of respect. The United States will lead through the power of the example – not through power alone. The United States is Norway's most important allies. We look forward to close contact and close cooperation, both bilaterally and on all the international issues where we have assumptions and a position to make a difference. The global crisis in the world economy has an impact on the conditions of power and the foreign policy landscape. Whether this is the worst crisis since the 1930s, it keeps in mind that the crisis at that time had dramatic and fatal consequences. It doesn't have to go that way now. But the consequences will be serious through economic decline, increasing unemployment, high social tensions, migration and internal migration. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) suggests that there is a danger for as many as 50 million new unemployed. It can in turn create political instability and social tensions. In cities close to us about Reykjavik and Riga, the downturn has led to major political protests and discussions about completely new road choices. As a result of the crisis, Iceland has been given a new government and is preparing for the new elections on 25 April. We are following this development closely. Iceland is our neighbor, allies and close brothers. Common historical and cultural roots bind us together. Our choice is therefore clear: Norway and the Nordic countries are preparing Iceland for a time of crisis, which is valued by Icelanders. We have to wait for further social and political unrest, especially in the poorest countries, in countries that are experiencing very poor growth and increasing unemployment. A country like China now needs to deal with falling and no longer increasing growth, new millions without work and without economic and social security networks. Our neighbour Russia also notices the crisis. We do not yet know the political consequences. So far, the world's governments and central banks have shown the ability to engage to deal with the crisis. 2009 appears to be the year of the action packages. The international coordination of all measures is less striking. Nevertheless, the interdependence between countries gives reason to believe that today’s world can avert the consequences of the crisis that lead to open conflicts. We are now in the midst of this global economic crisis. We're not at the end of it. Let me highlight three developments – in addition to those I have already mentioned – that have a bearing on foreign policy. Firstly, the economic crisis will contribute to and strengthen the global shift in power. A large number of the world's great cooperation forums are composed after the distribution of power in the years immediately after World War II. Today the world is different. The international institutions lose legitimacy and efficiency when they depend on representativeness. This is made clear when we look at these cooperation organisations today for driving rules and leadership. It's signs of change. When the world's largest economies were united to discuss international action against the financial crisis in November, there was no G7 or G8 framework. It happened in a G20 circuit, where countries like Brazil, India, South Africa and China are central members. In 2009, most of the growth in the world economy will take place in just these countries. Action against the crisis simply cannot be discussed without them sitting at the table. There will also be no WTO agreement if countries such as India, Brazil and the range of developing countries that are behind are not looking for a new agreement. The same logic will apply to a future climate agreement. Developing countries can now put power behind their burden-sharing requirements. This is a development in the right direction. Evolution comes, not as a trade after war, but as a recognition in crisis. At the same time, an extension from G7 or G8 to G20 must be anchored and legitimised. The rest of the world’s countries, such as Norway — and the Nordic countries — must be included. We need a broader debate on how this can be done. The Government assesses how Norway and the other Nordic countries can record the G20 meeting taking place on 2 April in London. And according to the same logic, it is high time that the leading powers could agree on reform and expansion of the UN Security Council. We are all losers in the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Security Council being weakened. In other words, this is about the reform of the international architecture. And we're not going to get away from engaging in this debate. Such a shift of power, where countries such as India and China have a heavier economic and political role globally, is one of the most important events in international politics in recent years. It underlines that we need to improve our competence and expand our contacts with these major countries. We are now implementing a comprehensive China strategy where we are building up and deepening contacts. It spans a wide range, including a comprehensive, direct and critical human rights dialogue, which also broadens the contacts between our civil societies. In May, we are presenting an India strategy for increased Norwegian-Indian cooperation and enhanced skills in Indian conditions. It's high time. Another foreign policy trend in the economic crisis is the risk of increased protectionism. It was a common national measure in the 1930s. But we later see that there was going to be a direct line from crisis to countermeasures, rival protectionism, even deeper crisis – equal to open confrontation. My experience is that this unique lesson is well anchored among the majority of world leaders. In Europe, EU cooperation is an important barrier to light-wine barriers to trade, and against one neighbor turning against the other. This creates stability, especially for the new Member States. The pressure for increased protectionism is spreading, often in disguise. We see that the US Congress, against President Obama's wishes, is in favour of imposing demands to buy American in the context of measures to strengthen the economy. It will be a serious mistake. It can initiate a chain reaction of competing protectionism all over the world. With an open economy, strongly dependent on international trade, Norway could be hit hard by such developments. The government will therefore work in all relevant forums to counter increased protectionism. We will also continue to actively contribute to the conclusion of WTO negotiations. Thirdly, the international economic crisis has led to a sharp deterioration in the idea of – and belief in – market infallibility. President Obama, in his speech of accession, said that the political and economic philosophy, which believes that the market is doing the best on its own, has gained far too much impact. There's strong speech from the foot of Capitol Hill. Today's global economy needs better regulation and more effective supervision that can prevent imbalances and collapse. We must work for the world's informed self-interest to strengthen the political commitment of cooperation, driving rules and joint institutions in all areas requiring better global governance: from climate to finance, from health/infection to food crisis, to migration and other areas. And we have to give the United Nations a key role. This is still the only circle in which all the countries of the world are involved. We must work to ensure that the sum of financial measures and package of measures does not merely recreate structures and regulations as they were before the crisis. The new measures must provide a course meeting climate change requirements with a significant boost for new climate technologies, research, more sustainable production and consumption, as well as stronger incentives for technology transfer to countries in strong development. Growth needs to change character and growth needs to change content. The latest report from the International Energy Agency shows that greenhouse gas emissions worldwide are increasing faster than previously assumed. The Copenhagen Climate Change Summit must establish an international agreement whereby the rich countries assume large and necessary emission obligations, while the major developing countries undertake to significantly reduce their emissions. Negotiations are demanding. But they can get new energy from the US signal to play a central and leading role towards the Copenhagen meeting. President Obama announces its willingness to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels in 2020. Such signals create new dynamics. It will also be crucial for the United States and China to come together on their way to Copenhagen. The EU's historic decision before Christmas to implement a large-scale climate and energy package shows the seriousness of global climate change. The EU's decisions also show that the economic crisis does not have to result in a weakening of the response to climate change – on the contrary. The European leadership is welcome. The economic crisis — and the vulnerability of many people — also highlights the importance of public-guaranteed and universal welfare schemes. This is in line with the Scandinavian model of society. Norway has put decent work, ‘decent work’ on the agenda. We will be committed to anchoring these important issues with the ILO, the WTO and with many other countries, not least with the new US administration that has shown interest in this. The government is taking vigorous action to meet the economic crisis. But let's remember that hardly any country has as good a starting point as Norway. The poorest countries are hit hardest. The food crisis is the fabric of both the international economic crisis and the climate challenges. The result is a complex humanitarian, economic and political situation. Over a billion people now experience hunger, and the number is rising. This is and will be unacceptable. Poverty is a threat to international peace and security. This is not the time to weaken our ability and willingness to show international solidarity. For Norway, Afghanistan will also be our clear leading international commitment, civil, political and military. Together with Palestine and Sudan, Afghanistan is the largest beneficiary of Norwegian aid. We contribute 750 million annually. kr. In 2008, we strengthened our diplomatic presence and commitment, and the Norwegian Embassy in Kabul is among our greatest. The largest Norwegian police quota abroad is now in Afghanistan. Nearly 600 women and men in uniform participate in ISAF operations. It's a high number of highly skilled people. The mission has been demanding and dangerous. 2009 will not be an exception. But 2009 will be a decisive test of whether we are on the right track. Afghanistan is scheduled to hold its second democratic presidential and provincial elections on 20 August of this year. In the context of our long-term assistance to Afghanistan, 70 million are now set. kr for the implementation of the elections, in line with requests from the Afghan authorities and the UN – UNAMA – and in cooperation with our Nordic neighbours. Although the situation is still difficult, it is important not to forget positive features: 85 pst. Today, the population lives in areas with health services. Gross national income per head the population has increased by 70 pst. since 2002 and the revenue side of the State budget has more than quadrupled. 22 million school books are now being produced and distributed throughout the country. And according to new UN figures, opium production continues to decline. This year, four new provinces can be added to the list of 18 provinces, which last year were opium-free, and which are also this year. The United States has announced a review of its own policies, both military and civil. There is also much to be said about the transfer of soldiers from Iraq to Afghanistan. In addition, we are awaiting a powerful American diplomacy involving Afghanistan and neighbouring countries. For too many years, the leading strategy for Afghanistan was characterised by military efforts in the fight against terrorism. It was thought that the future of Afghanistan could be won militarily. For too many years, the international community did not place enough emphasis on the importance of state building, political reforms, development efforts, national reconciliation and intervention to involve neighbouring countries in the stabilisation of the country. A new recognition has been obtained, and Norway has worked for this to happen. The keyword for success is "afghanistan". Our role is to strengthen the capacity of the Afghans to take responsibility for their own security, their own governance and their own development. Work on strengthening national defence and the country's police must continue. This approach was anchored during the NATO summit in Bucuresti last year and during the conference for Afghanistan in Paris. In Paris, there was full agreement that donors must follow Afghan priorities and be coordinated by UNAMA. Consensus – yes, but much has yet to be done in order for the consensus to be committed. It is particularly important that donor countries set up their efforts on the basis of Afghan priorities supported by UNAMA. The Afghans, for their part, committed themselves in Paris to political and economic reform and to combating corruption and drugs. Commitment – yes, but despite signs of improvement, much remains. We will make even clearer demands to the Afghan authorities that they do their part in the fight against corruption and organised crime, against drug production, and in the defence of human rights, and that they take targeted steps towards good governance. Success will require both Afghans and us to venture along new tracks. A solution for Afghanistan must include neighbouring countries. Pakistan and Afghanistan suffer the same instability from Al Qaida and rebel groups on both sides of the border. They must be combated in the context. The world community condemned the terrorist attack in Mumbai, India. This showed the risk of further escalation of the situation in the region. Developments in Pakistan are deeply alarming, despite the implementation of elections and the deployment of a civil president. Yes, this country's development is probably as crucial for stability throughout the region as for development in Afghanistan. It is therefore necessary to seek a broader consensus between India, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran that prevents the use of local and regional conflicts. It is necessary to open a dialogue with Iran that is responsible for the country as a neighbouring and regional actor. At the same time, we must seek new opportunities for economic cooperation in the region that create development. The region's large water and energy resources and mineral deposits are sectors with high potential. In order to contribute to stabilisation in Afghanistan, international communities need to support — and expect — national reconciliation. The Government of Kabul must be seen as legitimate by as many as possible, including groups that are currently part of the Taliban compound category. Initiatives for dialogue must come from the Afghans themselves, in line with their constitution and their own traditions and priorities. The war in Gaza has again put the Middle East in the centre of international attention. The focus now is on the fragile truce, the aftermath of the war and help to the hard hit population. And right today, we are going to follow the elections in Israel. If we look further, as we should, we must focus on the consequences for the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians, but increasingly also for the region as a whole. The whole Middle East is in political motion. It's a region where radical Islamist movements increase their support. Today, free and democratic elections would challenge a wide range of regimes. But the democratic path to political power is often closed, despite – or perhaps just because of – strong movements in the population, which require education, work and a voice. Polarisation is increasing and, as a result, the votes of the militants are gaining greater legitimacy. The conflict between Israelis and Palestinians and the way the parties lead this conflict have major ring-fences in the region. One dramatic fact is that leaders who choose moderation, negotiations and the way of politics are all too often short. Palestinian leaders who have chosen the path of negotiation experience coming back empty-handed. This strengthens those on the Palestinian side who offer confrontation and struggle. And now, when local and regional threat images are drawn, the Israeli positions are stuck, and those who want negotiations and compromises are also cut short. It is in this perspective that the war in Gaza belongs. It is linked to the continuing occupation. It is linked to Israel's insecurity against terror and rocket attacks. It is linked to active intervention from countries serving local groups to mark their positions. It is linked to the division on the Palestinian side. And once again, after the war, there are many signs that those who choose violence and military solutions as a political tool come out strengthened. This war could have been prevented. Norway, and many with us, warned Israel against the consequences of taking a collective struppet on an entire population through the blockade of Gaza. Norway has regularly condemned Hamas’ arbitrary rocket launches against Israeli civilians. Norwegian agents clearly told Hamas about the danger of a devastating war if the rocket attacks continued. The government has upheld Israel's right to defend its people against arbitrary protection from Palestinian militias. At the same time, we have condemned Israel's massive and disproportionate attack on Gaza's densely populated areas. One wrong does not justify another. In this war, international law has once again been violated – and thoroughly. Hamas rockets against civilians trigger individual criminal liability, according to international law. Israeli warfare violates international law's demands for the protection of the civilian population in the armed conflict. International humanitarian law requires the protection of the civilian population in an armed conflict, regardless of the causes of the conflict. It should be possible for alleged serious infringements of international law to be the subject of an independent investigation, if possible before a court. Norway supports the UN Secretary-General, who will have carried out an investigation of the way this war was waged. It must be a natural first step. In addition, Norway requested the UN Security Council to hold a separate session on the position of international humanitarian law. The Security Council held such a meeting on 29 January. It's positive. The position of Humanitarian Law also depends on its status and attention. The war in Gaza has left two warring parties who both claim to win. But the situation is dangerous like what it was before the war broke out. The difference is the number of deaths and injuries, major material destructions and deeper contradictions than ever between Israelis and Palestinians — but also between countries in the region. Priority is given to humanitarian aid. Since 2006, Norway has increased support to UNRWA, the United Nations Organisation for Palestinian Refugees (UNRWA), above 50 p.m., to 150 million. kr. UNRWA is a lifeline for the refugee population in Gaza – and more than ever after the war. Norway is now head of the UNRWA advisory body, which imposes a special responsibility on us to mobilise the necessary financial support for the work of Palestinian refugees. In view of the situation, we will further increase our support, and we appeal to other countries to do the same. Overall, Norway's support for the Palestinian region and the Middle East peace process amounted to 800 million. kr in 2008. Norway shall lead the donor country group AHLC participating both in the Palestinian authorities and in Israel. The UN Security Council confirmed the leadership role of the AHLC in the context of the recommendation to the Member States on humanitarian and economic efforts in Gaza last month. It is essential to coordinate the efforts of donors and to ensure that the support is aligned with the needs and capacity of beneficiaries. As the leader of the AHLC, we are working with Egypt on the organisation of a donor conference in Cairo early next month. We have been asked by Egypt to be co-chairmen of the meeting, and that request has been met. We want to emphasise that new types of giving conferences should not be seen detached from the Palestinian economy and the support to the Palestinian self-government agencies, PA. As with all other forms of work, the plans of the Palestinian authorities must be used to channel aid. Later, in the spring, it may be appropriate to convene an AHLC meeting to ensure the necessary framework conditions for the effective development of the Palestinian area. We must now expect Israel to open up the limits of necessary assistance and commercial traffic. It is essential that the Palestinian authorities maintain their coordinating capacity and that support be built up throughout the Palestinian region. This in turn raises the question of Palestinian unity. PA is the foundation of the Palestinians for a future state. But the Palestinian people are divided. Only a Palestinian authority that can gather its own people will have the strength and legitimacy to re-enter a necessary political process of peace, reconstruction and Palestinian state formation. That is why Palestinian reconciliation is once again on the agenda in the region and by the Palestinians themselves. What is being discussed is a broadest possible interim government that can prepare the way for new Palestinian elections. Norway supports this work, led by Egypt. Such a government must have a platform which meets the key criteria for international relations and consolidates the basis for resumption of the final status negotiations with Israel. The currently intensified reconciliation process is fragile. Suspicion is high. Norway is in contact with all parties, including Hamas. Our message is clear: We distance ourselves from terrorism and the use of violence. A representative actor in the Palestinian cause must not be based solely on a majority of the Palestinians. International legitimacy also requires respect for the agreements already concluded by the Palestinians. This brings us to the heart of the matter: the occupation, the mutual security threats and deep tensions in the region, increasingly also within the Arab world. We must demand and expect the negotiations on a two-state solution to start again. Furthermore, the region’s conflicts – and the tools to deal with them – need to be seen in the context. Extremism and terrorism must be combated and prevented, but not by methods that undermine and weaken the moderate forces of the region. The conflict between Palestinians and Israelis can only be brought to an end through a broad approach that can oblige the parties involved to participate by recognising their legitimate interests. It was out of such a broader framework the Israelis and Palestinians found room to conclude their first historic peace agreement. The Oslo Agreement was a shot on the trunk of the Madrid Conference. We called for the resumption of such a wider regional process after the war in Lebanon in 2006. We still believe that there is a need to work towards such a regional approach. Because there's a lot at stake. The deeply alarming thing is that the time for a two-state solution seems to be running out. The Israeli closing regime and the continuous construction of settlements on occupied soil undermine the Palestinian faith in a negotiated solution. The division of the Palestinian national movement into two incompatible camps exacerbates the prospect of negotiating and initiating an agreement with Israel. Continued terror against civilian Israelis and violent acts of war that primarily affect the Palestinian civilian population create wounds that will need more generations to grow. The tragedy is that all this is happening at the same time as repeated polls on both sides show great popular support for negotiations and for the main elements of a peace settlement. But there is also hope in it that there may be a way to peace. The conflict in Sri Lanka has also taken a desperate turn with the loss of thousands of civilian lives over the past few weeks. Everything must now be put in place to stop a bloodbath that particularly affects the Tamil population. Tamils in Norway have helped to make this tragedy visible to us. Since Norway was asked by the government and LTTE to assist in finding a peaceful solution to the conflict, we have pointed out to the parties that negotiations are the way to go. The ceasefire in 2002 was high, and with Nordic support, a unique monitoring mechanism was put in place. Many lives were saved, and the possibilities for negotiations on a broader political solution were identified. The parties did not seize this possibility. The truce was not respected in the long run, and the parties did not show sufficient willingness to move forward. The truce weathered, and the SLMM monitoring mechanism was asked to withdraw a year ago. Since then, the weapons have spoken. LTTE is now heavily pressured militarily, and about 250,000 civilians are needed together in a small and very vulnerable area. We have condemned the war with the suffering it causes the civilian population. Norway, together with the United States, Japan and the EU, has invited the parties to enter into negotiations in order to put an end to the fighting. The international community expects such negotiations to also deal with the decommissioning of weapons. The crucial thing in the future will be to guarantee the rights of the Tamil civilian population. Norway will continue to play a prominent role in this respect and Norway will continue to be available to the parties. Norway has applied for membership of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2009–2012. The work on universal human rights is a priority for Norwegian foreign policy. The establishment of the Human Rights Council has not removed the strong political contradictions that marked the international work of human rights before the formation of the Council. The reality is that the Council has got a composition that reflects today's world to a greater extent than the previous Commission. Those who share our views may experience a minority. This may not be an argument for not getting involved. The Human Rights Council is and will be the United Nations' most important intergovernmental body for human rights. Our voice is needed. Our approach must be to engage in the institutions that exist. In this work, as in many other areas of our time, we are going to seek alliances in addition to our traditional partners across regions, in a cooperation based on transparency and mutual respect. The bridge builder role we have had as an observer in the Council, we will continue to have whether we become a member. At the same time, however, we must clearly communicate our basic views. A clear commitment to the death penalty, to torture and to the rights of vulnerable groups shall continue. Other Norwegian areas of activity include the protection of human rights defenders, internally displaced persons, the focus on corporate responsibilities in the field of human rights and on women’s and children’s rights. We know that freedom of expression is under increasing pressure in many countries. Over the last few weeks, we have seen it in Gaza and Sri Lanka, but also in less-known conflict areas around the world – journalists who risk their lives to document abuse. We will continue to give priority to the work on freedom of expression and independent media. This is also the case in the follow-up conference, called the Durban II Conference, where a theme is the fight against racism, and where we will work towards trying to use this conference to formulate decisions restricting freedom of expression. At the establishment of the UN Human Rights Council, the United States decided to stand outside. It is uplifting that the new American administration has now signaled that they will actively engage in the Council's work by applying for membership. It is important to see our foreign and development policy instruments in the context. This context – security, peace, health, human rights, combating poverty, access to vital natural resources – is evident in the challenges facing the world society in Africa. Africa is particularly affected by extreme poverty, war and conflict. At the same time, it's wrong to cut the whole continent across the ridge of misery. Several countries are showing significant progress towards democracy and development. In our Africa policy, it is important that we see and support such progress, in particular through support for African countries' own capacity to deal with crises and meet and resolve conflicts. Zimbabwe has continued for a long time towards a major collapse. With Prime Minister Stoltenberg at the head, Norway has repeatedly asked SADC and the African Union to take a stronger role in finding a solution. We welcome the agreement on the establishment of a fundraiser in the country. However, there is a need for far-reaching changes in national policies before a normalisation in relation to the international donor community can be expected. Norway will continue its involvement in Zimbabwe in close cooperation with the other Nordic countries. We are making a substantial contribution to humanitarian efforts – 67.7 million. kr in 2008. Norway also supports civil society actors in the country and region. In Sudan, it is positive that the peace agreement between the north and the south holds, although it is fragile. Norway maintains an active involvement in the country, the main objective of which is to assist the parties in implementing the various parts of the peace agreement. At the same time, the situation in Sudan is serious and should the peace agreement collapse, it will be destabilising and devastating for the whole region. The war and suffering in Darfur continue. Norway is involved in different forums to contribute to a policy solution. We base our commitment on a national perspective and seek to see a clear link between policy objectives and assistance. We focus on the construction in the south and reconstruction of war-torn areas in the north. Oil for the Development Programme is also important because the whole of Sudan is now completely dependent on an efficient petroleum sector. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we stressed strengthening Norwegian presence in UN-led operations in Africa. On the police side, we have a strong presence in Sudan and Liberia. Since the Norwegian-Swedish military contribution to the UN force in Darfur was refused access by the Sudanese President, the Government has assessed other possible military contributions. The decision to place a field hospital in Chad has been well received, and it is now being prepared for dispatch. This will have a major impact on the operation that the United Nations is responsible for from 15 March. Until then, the military force of the EU is headed. Norway also assesses how we can contribute to the work of the UN in the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the war affects thousands of civilians. We have increased humanitarian aid. Norway prioritises support for measures against sexual violence and the protection of women, in line with the objectives of UNSC Resolution 1325. We also contribute financially to the UN Special Envoy. The government is in constant contact with the UN in view of possible future contributions to the peace operation in Congo, MONUC. Following its visit to the region last month, the Minister of Defence has indicated that Norway will be able to contribute a number of staff officers to MONUC in the short term. We are now in dialogue with the UN on this. We are also preparing support for defence-oriented security sector reform in Congo, and the Government will explore the possibility of sending a Norwegian strength contribution to the Congo during the autumn. Somalia is an example of what can happen if state institutions in a country break down completely. Pirates at sea are a symptom of a land collapse: lawlessness, war, chaos and great humanitarian suffering. More than 22,000 people of Somali origin have found refuge in Norway and remind us daily of the realities. We on the Norwegian side have supported the political work against piracy in order to create peace and stability internally in Somalia. The work carried out in the Security Council and in other international forums is concerned with regional work on the Horn of Africa. We are working closely with the UN Special Representative in the so-called Djibouti process. It is positive that Somalia has recently elected a new president who will form a national unit government, and as among others. has promised to take action against piracy. About 5 pst. by the ships passing the Suez Canal – 1000 in number – is under Norwegian control. These fly both Norwegian and foreign flags. We have joined the International Piracy Contact Group outside Somalia, and we will also consider contributing to the maritime effort to prevent piracy. In line with previous foreign policy statements, let me spend the rest of my time on topics mainly related to the northern regions, the main strategic focus of the Government. I want to do this by mentioning some foreign policy developments that matter to us. With regard to the broader Northern Region Initiative, I refer to the 22-point plan – the Northern Region Strategy – which we presented on 1 December 2006. We're on track for implementation, and next month the government will provide a summary of the work. The real new dimension of the Northern dimension of foreign policy has come from the development of the Arctic over the last two to three years, or, if you like, from the international re-discovery of the Arctic regions. Climate change opens the eyes of an entire world to developments around the poles, in the north as in the south. In the north, the reality of the open Arctic — with its potential resources, with its transport routes and with all its vulnerability — captures attention. Climate change will have serious and irreversible consequences for the environment, including the Arctic ecosystems. These challenges need to be met through extensive international cooperation. The government will work to put knowledge of the rapid climate change in the Arctic Ocean on the agenda towards the Copenhagen climate summit. As an Arctic coastal State, Norway has had the lead in creating the widest possible consensus around the legal basis for the development of the Arctic. With the exception of the part-line negotiations with Russia, where a good job is done, Norway has come to an agreement with our coastal neighbours over the last few years on all the borders outstanding. We have also reached agreement on quotas and management arrangements for all common fish stocks. Such clarification provides stability. Norway took the first initiative to agree on the legal basis of the Arctic Ocean for the five Arctic coastal states, the United States, Canada, Russia, Denmark and Norway. The General Court discussions in Oslo in October 2007 were followed up by a ministerial meeting in Ilulisat in Greenland in May 2008. The short version of our historic meeting is this: the Arctic Ocean. We have a comprehensive legal basis as a platform for the innovation and further development of rules and regulations that will now be necessary. The agreement from Greenland is of international importance. It is further reinforced by the fact that the European Commission adopts a similar approach to its proposal for EU policies in the Arctic. In addition, during President Bush's period, the Arctic strategy of the United States came on the table with the same knowledge at the bottom. The main principles were reiterated in a detailed reply from Minister of Foreign Affairs Clinton during the hearings in the Senate last month. This broad clarification is a green light to continue working on a completely necessary update and further development of the rules and regulations of the Arctic business. A lack of clarification would create great uncertainty and reinforced the impression of some sort of uncontrolled race on the Arctic. It is also important to work for the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, to complete the revision of the Polar Code for Arctic Water Navigation and to make it binding. It is of great importance to have good cooperation on search and rescue. Norway, Finland, Russia and Sweden have recently signed a new rescue agreement for the Barents region, whereby countries provide cross-border mutual assistance in emergency situations. The agreement is in addition to existing agreements between the Nordic countries and between Norway and Russia. We will also initiate discussions in accordance with the UN agreement on fishing in the high seas, an agreement which is an additional agreement to the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We want responsible management of living resources if climate change is to make resource use possible in the long term. Norway is also working towards the introduction of a comprehensive management plan for sea areas in and by all coastal states in the region. We will work to ensure that the five coastal states take a special responsibility for protecting the environment in the Arctic Ocean. The UNFCCC, the Biodiversity Convention, the Stockholm Convention, the Espoo Convention, the Basel Convention and the OSPAR Convention as well as other environmental agreements are important tools for limiting the overall impact of the Arctic environment and ensuring optimal management of the area. It is important that, in particular, Russia and other countries concerned ratify these conventions and ensure effective implementation as soon as possible. Developments in the Arctic give Arctic Councils a more important role. The Arctic Coastal States, together with Sweden, Finland and Iceland, participate in this Council. A wide range of countries now want to become permanent observers. The European Commission does the same. Norway is in favour of such applications. This confirms Arctic Council as the central political forum to discuss Arctic issues. We have chaired until the Ministerial Meeting in Tromsø on 28 and 29 April, which will be an important Arctic mark. We are followed by Denmark and saw Sweden, i.e. six years of Nordic presidency. In the context of the Tromsø meeting, we will, in cooperation with Nobel Prize winner Al Gore, organise an international conference on ice melting. We focus on the Arctic, but also on other areas of the world that experience melting ice and melting breezes. It is our goal that the Arctic Council send a clear message to the Copenhagen climate meeting about what happens when the ice melts. The large picture has been drawn before, but the features are increasingly drawn – by a climate- and politically frozen region that is in the process of thawing in several ways. These are our neighbourhoods. Here we have our national main interests. Here we need our attention. Here we need to build knowledge. Here we need to seek partnership and close cooperation with neighbours, allies and other actors present. Our own knowledge environments should be leading the North and Arctic regions, mainland and Svalbard. This requires a long-term commitment to research and development, as we do, among other things. looking through the new European infrastructure project at Svalbard — an action led by Norway and contributing to strengthening the role of the island group as a platform for Norwegian and international research. This knowledge gives us greater weight and influence on all issues relating to the northern regions of the international arenas. Norway has been leading the way by formulating a comprehensive strategic policy for the north. We're still going to do that. North areas, maritime policy, environment and the Arctic can be an important part of our cooperation with the EU in the future. The European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission have begun to tickle an Arctic policy for the EU. We follow this work closely. The image that dominates the Commission's proposals on the EU and the Arctic region is largely in line with our own emphasis. We want cooperation with the EU in the north, and we welcome a progressively wider American commitment. It is positive that the renewed focus of US accession to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is now being signalled by Secretary of State Clinton and the tone-setting team of the United States Senate. The relationship with Russia is a major axis of our Northern Territory policy. We must recognise the following: Russia is a leading Arctic nation, with long history, the longest coastline of the Arctic, with great interests to care for, with great resources and high competence in this area. In our neighbourhoods and in the Arctic, we constantly experience that Russia is acting in a constructive way. It continues to be a positive development in our bilateral relationship. We notice this during visits, meetings and conversations, at different levels and within different sectors of society. We are planning more and more important bilateral meetings this spring, including: through visits to Moscow by the Prime Minister. Norway's relationship with Russia will always be shaped in the crossroads between our bilateral relationship as neighbours and our relationship with the country as a NATO member, and closely related to our EU partners. To NATO we bring to the square an experience of good cooperation across the border, good results of our fishing cooperation in the Barents Sea, the potential for cooperation on the development of energy resources, and innovative and pragmatic regional cooperation in the framework of Barents Cooperation and subsequently the Arctic Council. Other allies have other historical experiences. The strength of NATO is the ability to chisel out a common policy based on a representative common denominator. NATO has been a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy since 1949, and this year the alliance is 60 years old. NATO has shown a unique ability to adapt to new challenges. At the anniversary summit in Strasbourg and Kehl 3–4. It will be important to continue the ongoing transition and modernisation of the alliance, both politically and militarily. At the meeting, there is likely to be agreement to start work on a new overall political strategy for NATO, a so-called new strategic concept. Security policy developments indicate that there is a need for a comprehensive political review of the tasks and arrangements of the Alliance, in order to further strengthen the relevance of NATO in the future world order. The government will keep Stortinget informed about this work. In recent months, we have seen a more ambitious and self-reliant Russian foreign policy that can make cooperation more demanding, including for Norway. We note a more forward-looking attitude in terms of sovereignty markings, as in the resumption of old military practice patterns. Increased Russian military activity along the Norwegian coast is likely a desire to show strength. However, there is little reason to believe that this message is primarily addressed to Norway. At the same time, we cannot deny that the north is still of military strategic importance as a base for Russia's sea-based nuclear forces and as an exercise area. The military conflict with Georgia six months ago created uncertainty about Russia's further course and damaged the country's reputation. The winter gas conflict with Ukraine reinforces the uncertainty. Strength, contact and dialogue are the only dangerous way to meet these and other challenges in relations with Russia. Isolation of this great and historically proud country is not in anyone's interest. There should be no old contradictions, but a wide range of interdependence that motivates the further development of relations with Russia. The Northern Neighbourhood confirms our need for clear anchoring in the alliance with our Euroatlantic partners. It shows the importance of our neighbourhood initiative in NATO. With broad support from allies, we want to increase the focus of the alliance on our own territory and neighbourhoods – not to express that NATO is returning home, but to show that NATO never left its core area. On two occasions, in November 2007 and in January this year, I have provided the Council of NATO in Brussels with a broad orientation on the development of the northern regions. Two weeks ago, this was also the subject of a NATO seminar in Reykjavik, which was greatly welcomed, including by parliamentarians. In other words, there is considerable interest in the Arctic and Northern Region issues. This is happening in a new era: the main focus is not on the military dimension, but on the importance of stable legislation and extensive cooperation, including with Russia. It is gratifying that the EU has resumed negotiations on a partnership agreement with Russia and that in December NATO decided on a gradual and targeted approach with a view to reopening political contact within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council. This was a correct decision, for which Norway worked. Our interests are served by NATO having open channels for political contact and dialogue with Russia – even when the relationship is strained. Norway welcomes signs of opening lines between Russia and the United States after the presidential change. We see signals that the disarmament issues are getting new attention. It's joyous and necessary. We see a more pragmatic approach to the missile defence plans that are no longer being rushed forward. Russia, Europe and the United States have a great agenda they should approach together, without the reflections of the Cold War. In the context of the economic crisis, Russia appears to be vulnerable. The political and economic consequences are currently unclear. The country’s own forecasts show that the population’s income will fall by 10–15 pst. this year. This is a high figure, not least for the part of the population that has experienced in recent years being lifted out of poverty. In response to the crisis, Russia has announced an increase in certain tariffs in order to protect its own industry. Such protectionist signs are alarming, as are Norwegian exporters. We want Russia to join the WTO, and we are working for a free trade agreement between the EFTA countries and Russia. The political stability of Russia could be affected by the economic crisis. There is today less room for political protest and change of words in Russian media. Killing lawyers and journalists is outrageous. The situation of human rights, of the condition of democracy and, in particular, freedom of expression in Russia, continues to raise concern. On the Norwegian side, we focus on continuing support for non-governmental organisations, journalists and others in Russia, both through political dialogue, supported for example. The work of the Council of Europe and through project cooperation. Strengthening cultural cooperation with Russia is also a central part of the Northern Region Initiative of the Government, and last month the cultural ministers of the two countries signed a three-year action plan for increasing joint efforts for cultural cooperation across the northern borders. Yesterday, Thorvald Stoltenberg presented the report on the road further to Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy. The report contains 13 areas of action for closer cooperation. The Nordic governments welcome the debate – in politics and among all others interested. The Foreign Ministers will consider the way forward when we meet in May. However, let me say this, the next day: the characteristic of these proposals is that they are modern. They respect the fact that the Nordic countries have different links with NATO and/or the EU, with their obligations and security guarantees. These remain untouched. But in addition to this, there is a new room for Nordic cooperation as a result of developments in our neighbourhoods: the cold war is over, climate change is changing our region and opening up a new sea, there is increased attention to resources, transport routes, maritime safety, new threats from migration, crime and environmental damage, and new opportunities resulting from small countries sharing burdens and rates together – to cooperation, as in the field of defence, where new technologies become both dominant and costly. The Swedish, Finnish and Norwegian Heads of Defence put forward their proposals on how these three countries could cooperate on defence issues. Norway wishes to welcome that report. The estimate fits into our focus on the north as our main strategic focus. Finally, let me say this: in recent years, we have increased focus on Norwegian interests in the formulation of Norwegian foreign policy. A clear focus of interest is of importance in improving choices and prioritisation between what is important and what is less important. Central Norwegian interests are established. They are linked to Norway as a coastal state, as a resource nation, and to our position in the northern regions, and they leap out of our ability and our responsibility to show international solidarity. Norwegian interests focus on the development of the north and neighbourhoods and are ensured through transatlantic solidarity and our close integration with the EU and our Nordic European partners. The EEA Agreement and the broad cooperation with the EU are part of Norway's anchoring in meeting the forces of globalisation. It is a priority in Norwegian foreign policy to ensure this anchoring at a time when the EU is both changing and expanding. It would be natural to mention this in more detail in the next European political presentation at the end of this session. A striking feature of globalisation is the extension of Norway’s basis of interest. We need to look further at new points of contact that affect Norwegian interests and that give us new challenges, new responsibilities and new opportunities. The purpose of the Reflex project has been to facilitate the exchange of words around the country on globalisation and Norwegian interests. The exposure is, and has been, large and the debate alive, not least among young people. During this week, the Government presents a major communication on development policy. In the next month, the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy, the first of its kind since 1989, are coming. With this, we conclude the Reflex project. These messages will provide the Storting with good opportunities for a broad review of Norway's interests and engagements in our foreign and development policy work. The government looks forward to this debate, which can anchor our foreign and security policy in the pact of good Norwegian traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e383	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e397	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e406	The size should then be treated with St.prp. No 35 for 2008-2009, on the sale of the State’s shares in BaneTele AS. The activities of BaneTele relate to the establishment and operation of fixed and wireless infrastructure for the transport of electronic communications services. BaneTele provides services to the business market. The basis for this activity is a fibre optic network that follows the network and the infrastructure of energy companies around Norway. In the proposition, the Government asks for consent to exploit its contractual right to sell the country’s 50 pst shareholding. in BaneTele to the Broadband Alliance under the conditions laid down in the shareholder agreement of 16 November 2006. A sale of the State’s shares will facilitate the establishment of a common ownership structure under the Broadband Alliance and the coordination of the activities of BaneTele and Ventelo’s Norwegian activities. The broadband alliance entered into an agreement in December 2007 to purchase Ventelo’s Norwegian business for NOK 2.3 billion. With the Bredband Alliance’s own regional bet, BaneTele’s nationwide infrastructure and Ventelo’s customer base and wide range of services, this constellation will be necessary to develop into a strong nationwide player in the Norwegian telecommunications market. It is clear from the case that since spring 2008, with the assistance of financial and legal advisers, the Government has been negotiating with the Broadband Alliance to establish a unified ownership structure for BaneTele and Ventelo. This can be achieved by the Broadband Alliance purchasing the State's shares in BaneTele for cash, or by exchanging shares, so that the State becomes the owner of the Broadband Alliance. The alternative, that the State retained its shares in BaneTele, would limit the possibility of industrial coordination and therefore was not a good solution for any of the parties. The government has obviously wanted a state ownership post in the Bredband Alliance. On 18 November last year, an offer was made to exchange the shares in BaneTele for a certain holding in the Bredband Alliance. However, the broadband alliance refused and accepted that the state used its sales option. The fall in the share market means that the sale option granted to the Government in the agreement of November 2006, with a fixed price for the shares, is very economically advantageous in terms of sales. Nevertheless, it can be noted that it would of course be possible, if desired, to find a solution here that gave the State the right price for the shares, and at the same time bought a share item in the Broadband Alliance for conditions that are consistent with current market values. However, an overall committee, including the red-green parties, supports the Government's decision to sell the shares in BaneTele. The Committee has stressed that the Government respects the State’s ownership interests. There is further reason to commend the use of external advisors by the Government. This is in clear contrast to the process when the government bought into Aker Holding at about the worst possible time in relation to market developments. Here taxpayers were incurred a latent loss in the billions class without the government using external economic advisors. It should be noted, however, that the Government has taken a long time to complete this sale. You've spent almost a whole year. However, conditions have arisen which are notified to the Storting only a few days before the surrender, which may have a direct impact on the final price achieved by the State in respect of those shares. As a mild criticism, I would therefore like to state that this is perhaps something you can better grasp the next time the government will exercise its active ownership. I will also refer to the treatment of St.prp. No 74 for 2005–2006, where an overall opposition criticised the government’s management of BaneTele. Criticism is firm. However, it may seem from the clear perspective of the post-war period that the government had an exceptional amount of good luck when the terms of a sales option were entered. Right is very pleased that the government sells the shares in BaneTele, and that no new state ownership is established in the Bredband Alliance. There is no need for state ownership in the Broadband Alliance. On the contrary, it is an advantage that the state as a regulator in the telecoms market does not have many interests in national actors. The sale further contributes to a good industrial solution and increased competition in the Norwegian market, which will favour Norwegian companies in the long term. I would therefore recommend the suspension, which is supported by an overall nutrition committee. This is undoubtedly good right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e432	This case is about the hall of the state's axles in BaneTele to the Broadband Alliance. When we visited in 2006, the government handled its proposal for an integration agreement and shareholder agreement with the Bredband Alliance on joint venture in BaneTele, we stressed that the state would still have 50 pst. in the company. After the agreement on the purchase of the telecommunications company Ventelo’s Norwegian company was concluded in the autumn of 2007, it has been appropriate to move the state ownership from BaneTele to the Broadband Alliance to provide a basis for more extensive coordination between the two companies, for the benefit of both parties. BaneTele is an important company and an important player in the Norwegian broadband market. We would have preferred to see the company still in public ownership. However, since it was not possible to reach agreement in the negotiations that have been held between the Bredband Alliance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade on joint ownership in a merged BaneTele/Ventelo, we support the Minister of Industry that the State should benefit from the right of sale they have under the agreement. The fraction is very busy to have a nationwide, open and supplier-independent core network in the future. This will include: be of major importance for web-based innovation and the use of new electronic services. We therefore stress that BaneTele will continue to be an open and supplier-independent core network. BaneTele's offer is today given on commercial wilds, and the offer will also in future be on a commercial basis. For the Workers' Party, state ownership is important, and we state that even if the state is now moving out of BaneTele, the state ownership policy is determined. It is important that we also in the future have an active and professional state ownership, which this government emphasizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e445	Over the last few years, we have had several rounds of ownership of BaneTele here in Stortinget. I think it makes sense that we end that story now. What's also interesting about this case is that the red-green parties realize that often or in some cases it might make sense both industrially and for the state that companies as per. today has a state ownership, gets other owners. That's good for society, and that's good for the company. That's why the rhetoric that the red-green parties often come with doesn't sting, so very deep when it comes to the piece. I am not going to provoke anything more than what I have done now, but it is okay that you also admit it – not as the representative Eldegard said in his post, that they would have preferred to see that the company was still in state ownership. Then you still had it and had got to some solution. What is important is that now the state has built up a network through state infrastructure through BaneTele. The state is also the largest owner in Telenor. It is important that, in the future, the instruments available to the State should be used to ensure that there is good competition in the broadband market. Competition authorities must do so, inter alia: Keep an eye on it. I would just like to say that the Progress Party entirely agrees with the comments made by the case rapporteur on this matter. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work on this matter. We have a good solution in terms of the disposal of BaneTele from state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e456	I'm glad there's a broad consensus in this case. Everyone here knows the history of BaneTele, so I'm not going to repeat it, but just say a few words about what was the starting point, because the government also wanted to be able to continue as the owner of BaneTele through a merged company. However, we had to note that it was not possible to reach an agreement on the values to be used for a transaction. The Government did not wish to oppose the early implementation of coordination between BaneTele and Ventelo, a coordination which could strengthen the basis for good industrial development and which could contribute to the more efficient use of existing infrastructure, as several speakers have also pointed out. It is also important to stress that if what is in the position is now adopted – and everything points to it – and the state sells out of BaneTele, the company will initially remain publicly owned, but mainly by municipal power companies. In my opinion, this will help to ensure that there is still some national control, including over BaneTele’s activities. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee is involved in BaneTele’s network – that it will also be open and independent of suppliers on a commercial basis in the future. The overall market position of the new company means, in my opinion, that they have a clear commercial interest in it. I believe that coordination of businesses can be a very good move to strengthen competition in the broadband market and facilitate a precisely the most open network possible. Let me then comment on something that Mr Hansen was talking about. It is that the Ministry of Proposition and in letters to the Stortinget of 3 and 4 February. refers to the need to obtain the consent of the Railway Agency for the transfer of the shares in BaneTele. Let me point out in brackets that this was information that came to us after we had submitted the matter to Stortinget, and therefore I chose to inform Stortinget in that way and at the time that it was done. In order to give its consent, as is known, the railway works require a clear physical separation between the technical installations of the railway works and BaneTele network. But this is a relationship that does not depend on the industrial basis or on the value of the country in carrying out the proposed sale. The assessments of the railway works are based on a long-term and stable safety analysis, and it was also expressed in connection with the establishment of BaneTele in 2001, as a full-time company under the railway works. The Government has decided to draw up an investment plan, which will be funded by the State, in order to implement this physical distinction between the railway works’ and BaneTele installations. We're coming back to Stortinget with suggestions on that. In that way, I think this is out of the world, and it will go the way it is now. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good and effective work, and I am very pleased that there is consensus in the Committee and between all parties in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e471	It's going to be line change. Torbjørn Hansen gets the word for a line, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e476	I'll try to stay within one minute. There is a broad majority of the committee behind the vote, and there is full agreement on the conclusion. However, it is clear from the process that the Government has been very interested in an ownership post in the Bredband Alliance. You've spent a lot of time. On 18 November, a separate offer was made to replace the shares with the Bredband Alliance, and the representative Eldegard stated that she might have seen such a solution. The state has a rather demanding role as a regulator in the telecommunications market, and the state is already inside Telenor. The broadband alliance has public ownership, even though it is not state ownership. In such a setting, it might be a bit interesting to hear what practical and principal reasons the Council of State really sees that the state should be the owner of the Broadband Alliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e483	I have never, on behalf of the Government, concealed that we would have wished we could still be the owner. It's quite right, as the representative Hansen says, that there's been some time for dialogue and negotiations with the company, but we didn't get there. Given the situation we were in then, I think clearly that this is the best solution. When it was not possible to reach an agreement on values on behalf of the community, on behalf of society, this was clearly what we recommended – and therefore this proposal for the Stortinget. I believe that, in the given situation, this is a good solution. It is still the case that it is mainly the government that owns it through municipal and regional power companies. We ensure what is important, and that is to be able to have an open and supplier-independent network on a commercial basis. This possibility makes them also want a maritime interest in it, so I'm glad that there's a broad consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e490	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e500	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10.ana.ud1570e642	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
