ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e80	The representatives Erna Solberg and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e91	I am delighted to make a proposal by Hans Olav Syversen, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold and myself on the extension of the VAT refund scheme for non-profit actors in the health and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e96	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 11.30 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will also propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 15.30 and continues beyond the regulatory time until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e115	On 8 March 2007, the Presidency set up a selection panel to propose a new pension scheme for gross domestic product representatives, members of the government, judges of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman of the Stortinge for administration and the national auditor. The Johnsen Committee took its position on June 9th this year. With today's presidency attitude, Stortinget is invited to make a fundamental decision on the broad lines to be used for the new pension schemes. What remains after such a decision is made is the legal work itself. The Presidency is in favour of the Stortinget asking the Government to draw up legislative proposals in line with the principles adopted here today. The government through the ministry has the necessary expertise in pension legislation and is also responsible for promoting equivalent legislation for other groups. Therefore, it seems most practical and effective that the Government is also responsible for this legal work. What has separated the pension scheme for those groups from other public service pensions is in particular two aspects: firstly, it has been shorter. Secondly, the pension has been regulated in accordance with the wage regulation of the different groups at all times and not in relation to the basic amount of social security. A single presidency is in favour of a new pension scheme based on the majority position of the Johnsen Committee, the so-called building block model. The new model will ensure that pensions for the groups in question follow the same basic principle as pensions for other groups in society and that the Storting has already taken a decision through the pension settlement. I believe that we are in the process of having financial arrangements that are broadly equivalent to the arrangements that apply to employees, with the adjustments that are necessary, because depositors and government members have a trustworthiness, not a job. The majority of the Johnsen Committee suggests that political activities rarely constitute the overall professional career and that the pension must be seen in a more life-cycle context. This speaks for a net defined benefit pension scheme, each year in employment providing a pension of a certain size. The building block model is life-cycle based, and every year in the workplace or office will count. The model is a net scheme and therefore excluding coordination. There is a ceiling on the pension base of 12 G. To get a pension roughly equal to 66 pst. on the basis of the pension basis, the new plan will require a vesting period of approx. 30 years. The regulation of the pension is done in the same way as in new popular protection, i.e. that it is regulated by wage and salary growth while the current pension is regulated by wage and salary growth and then deducted from a fixed factor of 0,75 pst. The pension can be taken from 62 years of age and life expectancy adjustment is introduced in accordance with the same principle as in new social security. No excess shall be paid in the new scheme. The increase decided in our new pension scheme to apply to new representatives from the current harvest. Those with full earnings in previous schemes will keep it, while those with partial earnings will have earnings calculated partly after new ones, partly after old schemes. The majority of the sample argued that the new regulation rules would apply to all representatives, i.e. also for future current pensions for those with old-age earnings. But there's this guy's at this point in the sample. A minority believes that it is legally very doubtful whether such a rule can be enforced. The Presidency assumes that the Government makes an independent assessment of the constitutionality of such a rule in the context of the legislative work. The Supreme Court judges, civil ombudsman and the national auditor appointed/elected after 1 January 2011 and following the implementation of new public funds shall, on the basis of the proposal, have a public occupational pension under the State Pension Fund Act. Supreme Court judges appointed and Civil Ombudsman and National Auditor elected before that date shall continue the performance of the closed scheme. In the case of post-wage and waiting-paid arrangements for high-wage representatives, the Presidency will come back to this. These schemes are closely linked to the Stortinget as an employer of the representative and should therefore be further addressed here. There is reason to believe that new rules for compensation for current post-employment benefits and waiting pay schemes can be adopted at the same time as the new pension rules. Let me just draw attention to a typographical error in I and II. The word ‘members of the Government’ shall also be inserted in the text. This recommends the unanimity of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e141	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debates on cases 2, 3, 4 and 5 be discussed together. [[See page 1118]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e198	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that members of the Government have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up for the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e211	It's a big day today. The Committee on Transport and Communications has committed itself to a good review of the 2010 budget, which is to be adopted by ME today. This is the first budgetary procedure for a new committee. There have been great efforts by all the members and fractions who have shown a great commitment to the sector, just enough with different political solutions to the challenges we face. Transportation is a field that engages very wide. Few things mean so much to people's everyday lives as just transportation. It has also been shown in the Committee's hearings. We have carried out broad hearings, with actually between 60 and 70 different organisations that have been within. There is more than ever, and it shows great interest in its work. The result has been a thorough recommendation by the Committee, and in important areas it has also led to positive changes. Both in terms of traffic safety, lightning and double-track Oslo-Ski, the budget management of the Stortinge has made important progress. It is said clearly that one has to advance the double track from Oslo to Ski in time. The Committee is convinced that it will come sooner than it was proposed. This will mean a lot for the many travelers on this route. I am also particularly pleased that there has been an increase in the 5 million SEK of Safe Traffic. kr. This was brought up by the Christian People's Party with the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa in spontaneous Question Time on 18 November. All the time the minister gave a positive signal, this has now been followed up by the Storting. Midwayers are a particularly important measure to avoid meeting accidents. The Christian People's Party is therefore satisfied with an increase, even though he is on a modest 15 million. kr. We also get our own project organisation for lightning. A large and wide majority of the Right, Government Party and Christian People's Party have decided that the preparation of lightning trains should be organised in their own project organisation. What is now important is that we get a wide range of services that capture both signals and competences from a wide range of environments. This work shall be clear so as to allow the Committee to take a final position on the issue of short-haul trains during the examination of the national transport plan in 2013. The Christian People's Party also found it very gratifying that this time there is a joint committee that supports the plans to establish a transport corridor from Narvik to China, based on the existing rail network through Sweden, Finland, Russia and China. A few years ago, there was a parliamentary leader from the Christian People's Party who said that a good budget had become even better after the treatment in Stortinget. I record that the government has very modestly benefited from this ability to make the budget even better. On the other hand, the Christian People's Party has done so in its alternative proposal, by way of example: increase the number of runs by 150 million. SEK to runway, 150 million. kr on the road and 150 mill. kr for bicycles and safe school beds. I would like to point out a good example that could make the budget even better. Better organisation for cyclists brings great social benefits in terms of better traffic management, less energy use, less air pollution, positive health benefits and less noise. The Transport Economic Institute believes that investments in related bicycle networks could provide a net benefit of more than three times the cost. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that a state support system must be created that allows municipalities to invest in the construction of walking and cycling roads. Our transport system must be for everyone. I am therefore disappointed that the Government has broken its own promise of better train stations for disabled people. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the work of ensuring universally designed train stations does not stop, and is not satisfied with the efforts of the Government to add to this budget. The Christian People's Party is also busy having a well-functioning TT system. Unfortunately, too many today experience this scheme as inadequate, among other things. The study of the members of the Norwegian Blind Alliance shows. This is an important matter for the Christian People's Party. Although it has not succeeded in increasing the promises for this purpose in this round, this is a matter the Christian People's Party will continue to work on. This year, Bergensbanen is 100 years old. For a viable hundred-year-old, one of the best reasons would be to get the Ringeriksbahn – which includes a new line between Sandvika and Hönefoss – in place. The Ringeriks course would shorten Bergensbanen by 60 km and travel time by about 50 minutes. With the budget agreed today, we do not have the framework of the national transport plan, although this government has had at its disposal well over 200 billion dollars. This is more than any previous government has been in the vicinity of having space for action. However, the result is that transport has not been given the priority of the sector, and has not been able to meet the needs we see today in the near future. Today we have a lag in the road sector. Roads over 1,100 km have been downgraded, and we have major challenges in terms of road safety. The one who has said this clearly is Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. He has demanded far stronger bets both on the road and on the railway. To the evening post, he said: ‘Norway has been left in arrears in the solution to the national infrastructure needs both in terms of rail and road.’ This is a situation that we have to see there, even when we spend more oil money than ever before. That is why I think there is a need for innovation and time for reorganization. There needs to be greater care for projects that go beyond time. We need to put in place a funding system where start-up and planned projects can be implemented more closely. It must facilitate new funding possibilities and alternative forms of organisation. The railway system, the state road system and the Coastal Agency must have greater freedom of action in order to solve their tasks. These etats should therefore be converted into state units. Also in this area, Sigbjørn Johnsen has spoken wisely. He has said that we need to reorganise relations and introduce new forms of funding, such as OPS and project financing. The Christian People's Party agrees with Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen. We have a big maintenance run on our roads. As of 1 January, the county assumed responsibility for a large number of highways. The government has promised that there will be sufficient money when large parts of the national road network are now transferred to the county. For the Christian People's Party, this is important. We have therefore made a proposal for an extra billion in connection with the municipal bill. I'm worried about the bill state no lemps over to the county. This can lead to poor roads — a road that is broken down and dangerous to traffic across our country. These days, there are climate negotiations in Copenhagen. The climate threat must be taken seriously. Transport is one of the greatest challenges for sustainable development in the world today. Environmental pressures from the transport sector contribute to high social costs, and energy consumption in the sector is high and increasing. That's why the Christian People's Party has been betting in addition to the government's proposal for rail, bicycle and bike and pedestrian routes. But the Christian People's Party supports the government's investment in InterCity. Train effort in Austland is very important. We want to prioritize passenger transport in densely populated areas, and to further ensure that several crossing tracks are built to facilitate more goods on the road. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions in the setting where the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e261	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e266	The last year has been marked by a global financial crisis, which has led millions into unemployment. The majority, consisting of the Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party, write in the budget statement the following comment: ‘The majority will also recall the importance of taking the financial crisis seriously. In the majority’s view, the current government has not done enough to secure Norwegian jobs. The majority want to contribute to lower unemployment by increasing investment in the transport sector.» This is alarming. These parties, including the Christian People's Party, therefore believe that the Government has not taken the financial crisis seriously – with one of the largest action packages in the world, with record-breaking commitment to trade in 2009 and 2010 and with Europe's lowest unemployment as a result. On the contrary, the Government has gained great recognition in domestic and foreign countries to be an active country and have an offensive price policy. My question is: Does the Christian People's Party believe that the right parties have better answers to the financial crisis than the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e278	There is no doubt that the Government has made a great deal of effort when it comes to both fighting unemployment and seeing the potential for the financial crisis. But for the Christian People's Party it was important to go in already when the financial crisis came over a year ago and we were dealing with the budget – we thought that the government should have been on the track already that time. The sooner we go in when we have a financial crisis, the better we get. What we want to point out is that when it comes to transport, we have a structure in our country where we can make big investments. Yes, large increases have been proposed in the licenses, but we could have actually done even more in this area. I also mean that with the slowdown we have on our roads, and with the investment needs we have in the field of transport today, it's actually just to look around in the country. Then we'll be able to establish that the government could do a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e287	Let me praise the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control and for his good observations on what Parliament has actually done to the budget. I was a little nervous that the committee leader, former Environment Minister, would not come into Copenhagen at all, but when there was 1 minute left, the climate issue emerged. Otherwise, I perceive that it was important for the Christian People's Party to complain about the government's efforts in the transport sector. In 2005, when the leader was in government as Minister for the Protection of the Environment, the licences to the railways were SEK 1.3 billion – and on the way down. Now we have multiple bets. The Christian People's Party behaves very much with the Progress Party. Where does Hareide think one sheep most about the climate – with the Progress Party or with SV and the other red-green?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e294	The fact that I ended up with the climate doesn't mean that I didn't think it was important. I chose to record it at the end of my article just to find out how important it is. I want to praise the government for having increased the stakes on the railway. The representative of Langeland was also present at the Railway Agency, where they said that one of the challenges now is not the right size of the permissions, but how one benefits them. What I'm busy about is that we're going to get further investment on the railway. The Christian People's Party has also chosen to increase precisely that part of the budget for rail, because we think it is important. Christian People's Party is a center party. We search both the right side and the left side to get an overview of important areas. As I said here, a good budget could even be better in this area if the government had chosen to seek more support from the Christian People's Party, because right on the railway, we have invested more than the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e303	Christian People's Party has experience from four years in government with the Left and Right, supported by the Advance Party, a time that was not exactly known for a very good bet on traffic – perhaps rather the opposite. The Christian People's Party has been following the red-green government over the past five years and seeing what has been put in place by bets, a bet that is famous as historical good. So from the last budget presented by Bondevik II in 2005, it's 50 pst. increase until 2009. When we see what the chairman of the committee has chosen to support comments from the right-hand side of the committee's position, my question is: how does the representative Hareide think he will get a pass in the right-wing parties for an historic good bet now, when you didn't get it earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e312	I notice that the three government parties are busy going back far in time when they are going to take replicas today. I thought it was important to stress that in the last four years there has been a room for action where over 220 billion new people have joined the economy. No government has been in the vicinity of having such a room for action. Of course, the transport sector has increased. Yet he has not got his representative share when we see the enormous increase that has been. When we see the need out there, I will not be aware that this is a historic commitment, given the space of action that the sitting government has had, from the 2006 budget until the budget we are now to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e319	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e323	As we discuss transportation, world leaders discuss the climate challenge in Copenhagen. There are high expectations for the climate summit, and that is why. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has concluded that human greenhouse gas emissions have caused most of the observed global temperature increase since the mid-1900s. This has resulted in an increase in the incidence of heavy rainfall over most rural areas. In some places, this means that entire land areas are at risk of being under water, and in Copenhagen, people are fighting for their livelihood. For us, it means more extreme weather, with floods, stronger winds and more races, which we already notice in budgetary terms. Greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease. In the transport sector, greenhouse gas emissions have grown sharply in the last decades, with the sector now accounting for nearly one third of domestic emissions, in the larger cities for half. This means that we also need to take action in this sector to reduce emissions. The red-green majority has started work. Since we took over, we have, to mention something: trebled the investment in the railway, and we are now investigating hasty doubled the state aid for public transport in the largest cities concluded four-year agreements for reduced car traffic in Trondheim and Kristiansand And on the other hand, we are implementing a conversion of the car tax, which has already resulted in a greener car fleet, and we are making clear sales requirements for biofuels, and that the fuel should be environmentally sound, we are strengthening maritime traffic with safer shipping, better ports and cohesion of maritime-road charges, we are implementing a comprehensive transport policy where we are betting on rail, public transport and reduced car use in the major cities, while building roads in the districts where there are no other alternatives In particular, as a result of these measures, the growth forecast for road traffic emissions has been adjusted from 30 to 40 pst. in 2020 to below 20 p.m. Reduced climate emissions are the main benefits of this investment, but it is also good for business. Reduced car traffic provides better access to freight traffic. This has been understood by industry actors and supports the proposal for car-restrictive measures. Therefore, the NHO and the LVB are allies of the Government in the matter of limiting the use of cars and pricing. So what's the opposition's option? The most glaring example was Arne Sortevik's reading in the Newspaper of November this year, where he hopes for failure at the Copenhagen climate summit and writes: ‘I’m concerned that the decision that can be taken in Copenhagen will make it more difficult to pursue good transport policy in Norway.’ I do not expect Mr Sortevik to listen to the Government, but I regret that he does not listen to the NHO and the transport operators either. We are implementing an outstanding high level of road, rail and shipping through the 2010 budget proposal. This is the final proof that we're serious about our great transport effort. We're not just saying it. The evening post wrote on October 14th: ‘On paper and in reality, this is the strongest road and rail investment in Norway’s history.’ The growth of NOK 4.7 billion gives an increase of 21.2 pst. And I want to give a concrete example of what this means on the road side. We're increasing the budget for road investments by 34 pst. We're launching a lot of big projects all over the country, and the high level allows us to lay asphalt at 80 miles by road. It's the same distance as Majorstua to the Sea. Growth means another year with a massive upgrading of the railway, with over 10 billion kroner for rail purposes – an increase of 15 pst. The main goal for us in terms of train traffic is to get it more reliable. We cannot live over time with conditions that we have had in the East lately, with great delays and cancellations. And let me underline: railway investments are now incredibly three times higher than in Bondevik's last draft budget. I record that the opposition criticises us that a plus of NOK 4.7 billion is too small, and that this represents too little escalation compared to the NTP. No, in NTP, which was treated in this room less than six months ago, it says on s. 9: ‘Depending on the economic cycle, a gradual escalation is therefore envisaged during the first part of the planning period.’ There must be way of short memory in the opposition. There can be no doubt that this budget represents a solid escalation, perhaps more than the opposition had ventured to hope. Traffic safety and zero vision of not being killed or seriously injured in traffic are one of the main heart issues of the Workers' Party. In 2010, we're going to spend 765 million. kr on road safety, and I am pleased that the red-green fraction has strengthened the budget for road safety by 15 million. NOK, especially Safe Traffic with five million. kr, and that the opposition has joined this proposal. The organisation is responsible for invaluable awareness-raising, and we have stressed in particular that the increase will be used to reduce youth accidents. The great effort against the race must also be underlined, where we almost double the effort. For the inhabitants of Ålvundeid and the Ålvundfjord, who now get a new tunnel in the Indwelling Beach, it is easy to see that this is important, yes vital. I would also like to mention aviation purposes and the ports where the Government also delivers in relation to the NTP. On June 26, this year, Senja, on Water Island, on Reinøya and on Sjursnes and many other places in Troms. Then the county councils presented the county road map for the next ten years. At Sjursnes they had been waiting for asphalt cover for 33 years, and the road was marked by Dagbladet to Norway's worst. At Senja, the Torsken package came in place with racial protection and better accessibility – crucial for fish exports. On Reinøya, the population cheered for an underwater tunnel to replace the old ferry, a battle cause that was already old when, as a young politician, I entered the county in the early '90s. Greater roadlifts have never been taken in Troms, and this is possible only because the Government has implemented an administrative reform that gives the counties responsibility for a large part of the highways, and – not least – compensated the counties abundantly for this. According to Nordlys, the atmosphere stood on the roof, and there was spontaneous applause in the county council when the road plan was adopted last week. Not one state politician – not even from the Party of Advancement, Right or Christian People’s Party – stated that this should not be the responsibility of the state politicians in Troms. These are good examples of the modern transport policy for which the red-green parties stand. Modern transport policy is about linking Norway together. We bind local communities, regions and the country physically and mentally closer to each other. All over the country, we find symbols on it – along the coast of the West with amazing tunnel and bridge projects, in North Norway with an airport system that binds the country to the rest of Norway and the world, between Bergen and Oslo, where the nation more than 100 years ago started a demanding and very bold train connection across the high mountain to bind the country's two largest cities together. The election was a choice of value. Instead of tax cuts and market liberalism, the red-green majority will build up well-being and the Community solution. We will continue a course towards bringing together Norway, increasing employment, strengthening industry and maintaining a strong public sector. We will continue and strengthen efforts to cut climate emissions, including in the transport sector. And we're going to keep working to tie Norway together. During the previous period, the red-green majority made a shift in the pace of transport policy. We over-completed the national transport plan, and we have facilitated the largest transport promise in recent times with a new national transport plan for the next decade. We're going to spend another $100 billion. We've already started the job. Finally, let me thank the committee, and not least the chairman of the committee, for the good cooperation on the budgetary procedure, and I refer to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e410	The representative Bear Surface talked a lot about climate, and it's important to do something about the climate and not just talk. Then maybe the representative is proud that she's in on a route down, namely the Bratsberg Railway in Telemark. But my question is, that's how the government is now transferring more than 17 000 km with other national roads to the county municipalities. Already now, we experience that county councils are taking money and using it for other types of measures. I would like to challenge the representative Bjørnflaten on: if she thinks it's okay that road money goes for example. for public/bus services, or is it such that, for example: Telemark County, which had to take 15 million. SEK in order to maintain its collective offer, take a new 12 million. kr to maintain the Bratsberg track? Or is it that the railway is actually the responsibility of the state? And isn't it that one should make sure that the state takes responsibility for the roads, and not send a bomb over to the county councils, which is now being done by transferring the other highways?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e417	As the representative probably got along, I dedicated considerable time in my contribution to the administrative reform, which I am very pleased that we have got in place. I have the principle that politicians are best able to make decisions the closer they are to the issue. I believe that state policies are fully capable of making good decisions on transport policy. And, as I referred to, in the debate on the County Roadmap in Troms last week, it was not, therefore, a single state politician, nor from the opposition parties in this process, who thought that they should not have that responsibility. At least they didn't express it. First of all, I believe that the state politicians are going to take care of their responsibilities, in a very good way. We see that this means that the states can now realise large projects that they may have been working on for 30-40 years. I also believe that this contributes to a good bet on transportation, even in the counties, not least by the fact that the government has compensated the states as it has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e426	I am recording that the representative believes that spending more money on transportation and on the road that then provides fewer kilometres is of the good thing. I don't share that view. When it is the case that the transport sector has a large potential to reduce environmentally harmful emissions by investing more in rail, I wonder what the representative thinks about the government's investment by already amounting to 800 million. kr below at the beginning of the first year of the implementation of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e433	There is no doubt that the government's efforts have been on the road, on the road and on the road, is a bet that we have not seen in the past. And as I said, the level we are at now in terms of appropriations for the track is three times higher than the level of the Bondevik government was on. So three times we've given up the level to the path. Then there is no doubt that the Stortinge said in connection with the national transport plan that we should have a stepping-up. We're doing very well with that escalation. On Monday, the Committee had a positive meeting with the Railway Agency, where the Director of the Railway Agency clearly stated that they had received what they had requested, and not least, they had been given what they had the capacity to do, and this was a very good basis for stepping up and delivering in relation to the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e440	I would like to remind the representative of Bjørnflaten that it may not be so strange that the representatives of the Christian People's Party in the county did not say anything about the administration reform since the Christian People's Party supported her. But I want to ask a question. The representative Bjørnflaten asks questions about the economic cycle. So we're going to spend more oil money than ever. We do not reach the limits of the NTP, nor does the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget proposal. Then we'll have to think about it either way. Sigbjørn Johnsen opens up to this when he now points to this with project funding. When we know that we are currently using oil money as if we were in 2018–2019, is there something the representative of Bjørnflaten would like to assess now? Because we know that it's going to be demanding years to follow up on the commitments that we have for the next four years. Will project funding be something the representative of the Bjørnflaten will assess?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e447	First of all, I would like to thank the Christian People's Party representative for the clarification on administrative reform. Then it is not that the Government is critical of project funding – on the contrary. We have included three projects in the State budget, which have their own items, just to ensure funding that goes over time. What is our objection to OPS, which is what the opposition has pointed out, is that the state is not short of money to build a road. The state has enough money. That's why we now have a big effort going on, where, for example. road investment increases by 34 pst. The back of OPS is that the State then has to borrow money for private purposes. That means some people make on this, get interest, etc. Instead, we're actually going to spend that money building more roads. So saying that we're critical of project funding is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e454	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e457	Today we are going to consider and adopt another so-called historic budget for the transport sector. It's probably the most historic thing about this budget is that in 2010 we might have to build a new 12 km motorway – it's actually shorter than the distance from Oslo center to Sandvika – and we're going to build 9-10 km midway, which is even shorter. Of course it has to be paved, of course it has to be laid a few kilometers with new rails too, of course it has to be built a little bit at some airports, and we're going to do the jam a little bit along parts of our coast as well. Yes, something actually has to be done. But the big challenge is that it is only so far from the huge needs that are out there in each municipality, in each state, and not least across the country, in all the areas covered by the transport sector – from roads and railways, airports and maritime transport to broadband and emergency networks. I also think it's pretty amazing that out of a budget of over 28 billion dollars, the bulk of the population gets allowed to adjust the budget with ridiculous 20 million dollars. kr. The Central Party's Ola Borten Moe's criticism of the Government's arrogance is probably absolutely in place, for it is clear that with the Government's arrogance of allowing the Storting to make changes to the budget, the depositors of the government parties have been converted into a government agency. Former county rapporteur at Telemark Andreas Kjær from the Center Party has said several times that working on transportation is like working in the perspective of eternity. I can sign that it can often feel like this when you see how incredibly small it is. For me and the Progress Party, the proposal is based on the majority, far from the ambitions of the Progress Party. Because in our proposal for a State budget, we are adding to a commitment that means a strong acceleration of many very important road and rail projects. We will start building up a 2,300 km motorway and a strong extension of the railway network, in line with the core network investigation, both on the road and on the railway. The proposal of the Progress Party also means that we will be at full speed to ensure that, over 20-25 years, we will have one of the world's most efficient, modern and environmentally friendly road and rail networks ready to meet the future's transport needs. I would like to go on in my post to take up some of the most important areas of our alternative state budget. In the case of railway, the Progress Party will be committed to a strong expansion of today’s rail system. We want to add the majority of airlocks on high-speed trains to multiple hundreds of billions of dollars in the drawer once and for all. For everyone in the hall knows how hard it is to be able to shake out a billion or two extras from the red-green government, whether it is about money to go, or it is about money to the railway. When we know that of the current network of 4,114 km, it's only 144 km, or just 5 pst, which is arranged for speeds over 160 km/h, let's just stick our finger in the ground and drop the high-speed dream and make sure to double the number of kilometers where the speed of the routes can be increased up to 200-250 km/h. This would really mean a huge difference, and that would mean that we had a railway network that would meet tomorrow's railway needs. The Progress Party therefore proposes that in 2010 we increase the rail budget by SEK 6.5 billion in addition to the frameworks laid down by the Government. This means that important projects, such as Oslo-Ski, Eidangerparllen, the Rome Railway, the Dwarf Valley Tunnel and electrification of, among others. The racetrack and the Meråker track, can be started up much faster than what the big crowd has built up to today. In addition to investments in the rail network, it is also important to ensure the maintenance of the rail network currently in place. In addition, provision must also be made to ensure level crossings and other points of accident on and at the lines. It is unsustainable that trains are constantly standing because the signalling systems are not working, or that overhead lines are falling, etc. Continued delays, problems on the web, etc. helps people to lose faith in the railway as a means of transport and to choose other means of transport. The Progress Party believes that this must have a very high focus in 2010. I would therefore like to specifically challenge the Council of States whether she will inform the Storting of what measures have now been taken and what will be done to prevent all the constant interruptions we now have on the railway network. The Progress Party proposes for 2010 to set aside more than DKK 20 billion to accelerate the development of a number of important road projects across the country. I would also like to allow myself to point to some very unfortunate sections that the Progress Party wants to ensure that the development of as soon as possible starts. As long as you can get the plans completed, the expansion will start in 2010. This applies, inter alia, to: the highly accidental routes on the E39 from Kristiansand to Sandnes, E18 through Agder and Telemark and E6 through the Gudbrand valley. These are sections where accidents often occur and which should have been built out a long time ago. Many have been planned for over 20 years. I record that all the lots express clearly that they are engaged in road safety work. We are therefore pleased to see that Safety Traffic increases its limits by 5 million. They can intensify their prevention work specifically directed at children and young people. That is very good, and we wholeheartedly support this strengthening of Safe Traffic. Traffic safety and efforts to reduce the number of people who are seriously injured and killed are also about having more thoughts in their heads at once. Unlike the Council of State, we believe that this is more than just an attitude and behaviour of the individual driver. The road must also take account of the fact that the drivers are people who can make mistakes, and the road must allow the drivers to make mistakes without automatically having disastrous and fatal consequences. Multi-field roads with middle parts are the simplest and most effective means of reducing heavy traffic damage and fatalities. According to the head of road safety in the State Road Administration, Finn Harald Amundsen, highway development reduces the number of fatal accidents by 80-90 pst. Two independent reports, from Folksam and the Swedish sister organisation NTF, show that 70-72 pst. the fatal accidents in traffic are due to poor roads. However, Norway has worse roads than Sweden, and 33 pst. Of those who died on the roads in 2008, 38 died in a meeting accident. dead in excursions and 9 pst. in cross-accident situations. In the Progress Party's proposal for a national transport plan, we went in to spend almost three times as much money as the Government on safe, safe and environmentally friendly roads, and this plan we are following loyally in our alternative state budget for 2010. In addition, the progress batch will approve 110 km/h as the speed limit on the best motorways in order to improve traffic flow and increase capacity per. hours on the best roads. Finally, I also need to enter into the establishment of the new emergency network, which has ridden the government as a mare for several years, where the first stage of development has so far started after several years of delay, and where we were informed last week that costs are increasing by over 100 million. kr in addition to what was initially foreseen. One could have discussed the constant delays and cost speeches, but I am much more concerned to make sure that you are finally putting in place the emergency network that all the employees working on the front line in the emergency situations have been waiting for, and that they will now get the very valuable tool in place both in terms of their own safety and in order to make their job the best possible in an accident location or in an action. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice or Industry can confirm that the development of the first stage of construction of the emergency network is now actually on track. Finally, I would like to call on the majority to vote in favour of the 2010 proposals of the Progress Party on the Transport Budget. I understand that it's probably unlikely, but it's allowed to turn around in time, so I look forward to the further debate today. I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e510	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e516	I can already confirm that we are not going to vote in favour of the draft budget of the Progress Party. In order to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, many measures have to be effective. It's about information and training, it's about control and monitoring, and it's about action on the road. We can't just build ourselves out of traffic accidents. If everyone had kept the speed limits, there would be 50 fewer killed on Norwegian roads. Police checks and photoboxes are the most effective measures to slow down. The Progress Party has arranged for the closure of the Printing Police and will also terminate average measurements of speed between the photo-boxes, among others. on the grounds that it is dangerous if the road users follow the speedometer. Does the Progress Party consider that following speed limits is dangerous for traffic? And: Does the Progress Party agree that we cannot build ourselves out of all the traffic accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e525	In fact, the Progress Party – and to the extent that it has also clearly stated that the traffic manager in the State Road Service – believes that building a motorway also reduces the number of fatalities in traffic by 80-100 pst. And the Progress Party, unlike the Government, which will only build 230 km of highway, will build 2,300 km of highway. This means that the number of people injured and killed in traffic will be greatly reduced. As the representative Susanne Bratli knows, if she reads the suspension, the Progress Party has many good measures for road safety, both in terms of road construction, in terms of information measures, and in terms of other road safety measures. If you read the statement, you will see that the Progress Party is concerned with road safety and promotes the proposals that actually work in terms of road safety. Physical measures are the best measures and are the immediate ones. In fact, sometimes you can make mistakes, without having disastrous consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e532	The representative Hoksrud tried to ridicule this good budget that we are presenting today. It makes me start by telling a good story from the reality that the Progress Party had power. In three budgets, as they negotiated with Bondevik II, they were able to negotiate – and note this! - One million. kr for increased road maintenance. That was a bit of an achievement! I would call that a historic saying for the Progress Party. Then it is that greenhouse gas emissions cost. If one runs more cars, if one builds more highways, Vegvesenet says there will be more emissions, then there will be more damage due to greenhouse gas emissions. It'll be more expensive for taxpayers when you do this. Of course, it's even worse for poor people in the third world, but it's not so 'hid' for the Progress Party. My question is, is it that a 75 m wide motorway on which many cars can run is better than a lightning train in Norway, if you want to bet on reducing greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e541	I find it interesting as far as the representative for Langeland is concerned. What you know is that the technology in the automotive industry has now come very far, and it's coming very much further. I think that the climate challenges for Hallgeir Langeland on the car side will be gone in a few years, precisely because you have technology that ensures that in the future it will not be emissions from the car park. So I don't think of it as a big problem. I think it's actually also that it's much more sensible to make sure that we build good, environmentally friendly roads instead of building a high-speed train, which also has large emissions. How the representative of Langeland can guarantee that emissions from high-speed trains in Norway are from clean energy as hydropower, I would like to know. We see – and we know – that we are importing a lot of power from polluting energy sources. So I think that also the representative Langeland will see that when the car park gradually becomes completely climate neutral, then this won't be a problem. Then it's good with good, safe, safe and environmentally friendly roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e548	I want to go back to road safety. I registered that the representative Hoksrud talked a lot about it. At the same time, I heard a little about the desire for mind-creating work. I agree with the representative that safe roads, physically better roads, are important, but it cannot relieve us of our own responsibility when we are driving a car. Then we are quite surprised when the Progress Party in a number of contexts has proposed both increasing speed and removing the Pressure Police; in the summer, it was even suggested that you have alcohol sales at the gas stations. How does this relate to the fact that speed, rush and lack of safety belt use are some of the main causes of fatal accidents on Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e553	I think it is very good that the representative is concerned with road safety. The problem is that at that time some of the proposals that the Progress Party has actually promoted in this Chamber, which the Progress Party has taken up and which relate to road safety, should have been supported. In the last period, we have been promoting a proposal on road safety halls, which we know has had a good effect. There is a hall in Rogaland, one in Trondelag, one in Telemark, and an evaluation has been carried out to show that this is a good road safety measure and is an attitude-creating one. I myself have been in Kristiansand and seen the project 18+. It is a very good measure to gain attitudes among young drivers, and we wholeheartedly support them. We have road safety – safe traffic, I think it's called, in Hallingdal, which is also a typical project where you're concerned about this with awareness-raising work. So is the Progress Party. Therefore, we have proposed to set at DKK 1 billion for road safety measures, of which awareness-raising measures are also part. But we also believe, and there is evidence, that the physical measures are the simplest steps that can be taken quickly to do something about the number of fatalities in traffic. Midwayers are a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e560	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e563	After the list was high in the NTP six months ago, it was with considerable expectation that we looked forward to the Government's budget proposals for transport. Unfortunately, however, the level of ambition in NTP is correctly escalated, but the level of ambition in NTP is not followed up for 2010. The right has greater ambitions. Right rates for the future with modern transport solutions. We have ambitions to solve the big problems using new and modern tools. I'll come back to this eventually. It is that large distances and scattered settlements make us dependent on good transport solutions. An efficient infrastructure is essential to ensure the competitiveness of businesses in District Norway and to ensure good urban accessibility. These needs make it necessary to facilitate action and efficient and safe transport. The right considers that the problems and shortcomings in the transport sector over many years have become so serious and extensive that significant innovation and new solutions are needed. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Right has proposed that the State share of road investment should be increased. Right-wing wants to follow-up adopted NTP, and will therefore increase the appropriations for road investment by a total of DKK 1 billion compared to that resulting from the Government’s proposal. This billion is in our option divided by 50 million. SEK to individual project, 150 million. kr to the required race protection on the highways and 600 mill. kr to road safety measures/middles. So we are pleased that the government parties now support the Right's proposal to grant $5 million. kr extra to Safe Traffic. We have seen more examples of the fact that the State Road Service has not had planning resources to meet the policy objectives of more comprehensive and distance-based plans and new solutions such as: OPS will require. That is why the Right proposes 200 million. kr for forced planning and design of road safety measures and major coherent projects. So the right-hand overall budget proposal complements the government's approach where this does not meet the needs, namely in terms of road safety and racial protection. Road construction is, in the Right's view, both a good rural policy and a good industrial policy. Better roads are also essential to move forward towards the vision of zero fatalities and serious injuries in traffic. The right has gone to battle against traffic death. We have invited the Government and the Minister of Transport. The fight requires a stronger bet on pitfalls than the government put forward in its 2010 proposal. It must be possible to claim that 9 to 10 km will be puzzled when the target is 250 km. With the Right Draft Budget, this number will be six or sevenfold. The number of meeting accidents on Norwegian roads could be significantly reduced and probably many lives would be saved. The use of non-traditional instruments is also required by large maintenance kits on the road and on the road. Therefore, the right considers that it is necessary to establish a separate maintenance fund for transport purposes in order to meet the challenges of the enormous delays in road and track maintenance. This fund shall be of NOK 50 billion in our opinion, and the return shall be in addition to ordinary appropriations. For the proposed fund of the year, it would give a return of approximately NOK 2 billion for maintenance in 2010. Next year, the amount would increase to NOK 2.5 billion, of which SEK 500 million. kr to the railway – in other words, as much as the railway has at its disposal for regular maintenance. Only in this way is it possible to take the huge maintenance kits to the road and track within a reasonable time. In the right, we are committed to finding new solutions that can provide faster and more rational development. In many countries it is natural to compare with, the many good examples we could learn from. If the government could only freshen up from its private allergy, it would have been possible to get to much more quickly, within both road and track. We note that the government's announced model for the construction of infrastructure, the so-called project finance operation in Soria Moria, has been scrapped. Filling this concept with a model that applies to a couple of projects where you create your own budget line is at best a very bad excuse. Project funding, or project organisation as we know it from other countries, is in any case not. I remind you that budget lines are also subject to assessment and any cuts, as the budget is in its entirety. At best, this is no more than noble ambitions and goals. They do not have the same obligations and obligations as project financing, e.g.: according to the Swedish model, which involves the creation of a dedicated company, responsibility and the possibility of independent financial instruments such as: borrowing. Or we shouldn't go that far. Here in the country we have used the same model for the development of the OSL Gardermoen. Therefore, the right considers it even more important to continue to work on road construction through Public Private Cooperation, or OPS. A model all actors want to use more of in Norway, just not the Government. On the right, it wants to set up three to five OPS projects annually over the years to come. Experience from the first OPS projects that have been completed is such a good experience, including: with halved construction time and improved cost control, that the model should be continued on appropriate sections of road and rail development. For 2010, we propose that the following three sections should be organised and financed: the completion of E18 from Akershus to the Swedish border, rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika-parsellen and E39 south of Bergen with the new motorway between Bergen and Os. Another major challenge facing Norway is to stimulate more public transport. The right stresses that good collective solutions are important not only for the environment but also for a smooth transport system. A stronger commitment to public transport in large cities is essential in order to reduce car use and increase the collective share. But that's not the same thing as just focusing on and betting on road pricing or rush time charges. We in the Right believe it is good that the Government continues the very successful innovation of the Bondevik II government, the so-called reward scheme. But the Right regrets that the Government does not want to increase the pot to premiere and therefore, unlike the Government, proposes a massive increase of 100 million. SEK to this scheme for the next year. At the same time, we are critical that the Government is now more or less sneaking into the premise of the scheme, from being an effective incentive mechanism for the metropolitan regions to increase the collective share to become an instrument to persuade cities to introduce a rush-time tax. The reward scheme was, as you know, an important operational measure in the climate agreement. The right will maintain the original intention and specify that no place has been adopted, either in the rationale for the establishment of the scheme or in the climate agreement, that this should be a rush time charge. In order to contribute to further good incentives for reductions in car traffic, we also want the State budget to provide over €3 billion over 10 years for investment in separate collective tracks and urban railways in the long term. Modern quality, service and offer requirements require that the organisation of their responsibilities by the State also within the collective system is as appropriate and effective as possible. Therefore, the right will use project finance and OPS for the construction of new double tracks and the development of the InterCity triangle. We also want to modernise the Railway Agency for the benefit of train users and, in this context, refer to an excellent initiative in the Committee, where we in the Right propose to transform the Railway Agency into two State limited liability companies. We have also asked on several occasions for an action plan for multiple crossing tracks on the railway. These are important measures to increase the capacity of the rail network for both freight and passenger traffic. From the Railway Station we are told that the capacity of goods on the track can probably be doubled by building several crossing tracks. The right will also liquidate the train monopoly to ensure that train users are given the best possible rail offer. For example, the outsourcing of passenger services on Gjøvikban has been a major success. We also believe that the use of tenders with contractual terms and penalties will be a far more effective tool to ensure the quality of public services. I just want to bring up the proposals where the Right is the co-sponsor, and then I'll draw attention to an incubation in XXIII, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the Moss Airport concession terms and conditions so as to remove passenger ceilings [[...]] It shall be corrected to: ‘to remove take-offs on the number of flight movements; [[...]] [[...]] I ask that this be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e610	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he has referred to, and he has also made the correction that he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e615	In a major survey of business leaders worldwide, 37 business leaders in Norway and 73 in Botswana were asked about their subjective perception of road standards. Based on the answers given, the Right concluded that the roads in Botswana were better than the roads in Norway. It was used frequently in the election campaign, and what I'm really wondering is whether the Right still believes that the roads in Botswana are better than the roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e622	It was an interesting question to get in a budget debate in Stortinget. If the representative de Ruiter had read our alternative transport plan carefully, he would have seen that there was a long list of countries where Norway and Botswana were relatively low. The entire study was international. So we referred to the study where business leaders in the countries that this particular happened to have expressed themselves. We did not comment on the study as such. We referred to what these business leaders had said. We made that clear in every context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e630	I'm not going to talk about the Right Mantra, OPS, but about an allergy and a schizophrenia. Allergy is a rush-time charge. The NHO, the locomotive owners and other groupings would like to have fewer queues on the roads. Stockholm and London have introduced a rush-time charge. Business wants it too, because they can spend more money, and we can get less greenhouse gas emissions. The right sign on the climate agreement, which says that one should have reduced car traffic. What is the Right to reduce car traffic, to which they have committed themselves in the climate agreement, if this is not the case? And then there's highways. The right shall build a lot of motorways, and they shall be involved in the construction of a lightning train, if it is profitable. Ottmar Grein, the director of Deutsche Bahn, said to me this summer: The lucky thing about Norway is that one has not built so many motorways, because then the customer base and the economy of the lightning train are improved. Isn't there something that can go up for the Right even afterwards, that one can't build all these motorways?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e639	I think it is interesting that the representative Langeland mentions the climate agreement in every context. As most people know, the climate agreement is a compromise that got the quality that it got, after all, because the Right, Left and Christian People's Party strongly pushed the government parties against what they themselves had presented in the climate announcement. We rarely hear about what was in the original climate communication. One of the things we put into our climate settlement with the government was just the reward scheme, which was the Bondevik government's design to increase public transport in cities. One requirement we made was that it should be doubled, which the government of course followed up. We and several others have said that this has to be increased further, and so in this budget we feel that there are no increases at all – except for a price adjustment. The fact that Langeland then stands and turns around in terms of the climate agreement and the reward system sounds a little hollow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e646	I record that the Right does not want to support the innovation with a compensation scheme for differences in fuel, on the grounds that districts are set up against central strokes. I also register that the Right Cuts for the purchase of unprofitable postal services of 250 million kroner. kr. Where do they live, for which the country pays the purchase? My question to the Right will then be: Can you end this by saying that the Right thinks it's okay that the districts have expensive petrol, or that they don't have, for example. Saturday mail? Does the Right have any district policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e653	I might need a little more than one minute to answer the last question, but I'm going to focus on...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e658	I'm afraid the representative has no more than one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e661	...a couple of her questions. To take the post office first: it is such that the post office itself wanted to stop the banking services on which they lose a lot of money. We have heard that repeatedly from the Post Office's management. In addition, the Post has reduced its volume, both because of the financial crisis and because people have fewer postal items than before. You use electronic mail. Then we believe that it must be right to adjust and streamline one's business within the Post Office. But it is important for me to be told – because we are also concerned with District Norway – that we do not want to weaken the requirement of six days' burden, nor of unit sport, which I have noticed that this representative has been out and said on a few occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e668	Then the President is afraid that one minute is over. The cord shift is also over. The next speaker is Hallgeir H. Langeland, who will be the last speaker before the Storting ends his negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e675	It was an honor to have the last word before the peace award ceremony – it was fine! Let me just hope that the Right comes back to answer me the line that I had to them, about what measures they want to take to bring down car traffic in the cities. They couldn't answer that, and they couldn't answer why they're the schizophrenics when it comes to highways and lightning trains. We're supposed to have: yes, thank you, both of you! But then one reduces the pay to one of them. The government – and especially SV – has received some criticism for lack of investment in climate, and in particular the criticism was hard in the energy and environmental debate here some days ago – not so hard today for some reason. In any case, it is important for SV to clarify that the meeting that is now going to take place in Copenhagen is very important for us. Then we also have to remember that one third of our emissions come from car traffic. Then we must do something about it too! So I just want to rip up a little bit in history. It's usually a little uncomfortable, but it was actually so that greenhouse gas emissions were not something that the red-green government invented in 2005. In fact, something happened before that – not least Bondevik I contributed, even though Bondevik I became a small whole when the government went off because of gas power plants. When they got back into position – like Bondevik II – they were builders with smiles about their mouths that built heavily impurising gas power stations on Kårstø and highly impurifying gas power stations on Snykvit. There's the huge emissions. So I said in a line to the Christian People's Party that in the 2006 budget, the promises for trains went down, but the tax haven went up. So that's what we've changed. Now the rails go up, and the tax haven goes down. What we think is a good policy for the community and a good policy for the railways, the climate and the environment. But of course, we can do better at home than we do. At its national meeting, SV has agreed to a railway framework of 10 billion kroner. Then we could spend even more money on trains and greenhouse gas reduction than we can do with the framework we have today, even if this government has got a multiple in relation to former bourgeois governments. So it's not right that we don't do anything, we do a lot of things. In my own country and the Minister for Transport, we have now spent billions of dollars building double tracks and freight terminals. In fact, on North Jären, transport is 70 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. Now this government is helping to bring down greenhouse gas emissions there. If the Stavanger region now tightens up and makes proper applications from the payroll scheme, they will also be able to get pots – more money to spend more on the collective. I also want to say – something that is an important matter for SV – that the Government has allowed 6 million in the current year. kr for the planning of the city track on the North Jären. I would also say to those who say that we are too small on trains, that at least we have a project that is not small money, and that is double-track Oslo-Ski. $12 billion, which we're now starting with, is not a little bit smaller. The project to execute. The project is project-funded, and it is a huge effort that will have a major impact on the climate. I think – for the moment to start with my first conclusion – that we have the Right, Left and Christian People's Party out of government, turns out to be speeding up bets on trains and train development. That's why it's important, I think, for those who are busy with the train, both train directors and other important people I'm listening to here, that they have to bet hard on the fact that the red-green government continues. So I say, when it's climate, we have to do more home. I totally agree with that, because the climate is about solidarity. It is not primarily we who are currently being hit by greenhouse gas emissions, it is people in the poor countries. They're the ones who die of our emissions. It is the West that has been responsible for emissions, which is why we must be in Copenhagen. We have a much greater responsibility than the poor countries. But it also affects us at home. Therefore, it is a bit fun with the Progress Party that tried to explain that road maintenance, race protection, etc. are more expensive now because of greenhouse gas emissions, but they indicate that we are just exaggerating here. But I want to tell the Progress Party that it also costs to run pollution in Norway – when it applies to the budgets we are talking about today. Tax payers are getting confused about a policy which is that one does not take the climate problem seriously. The Peace Prize winner Obama, who is here today – but he is not here for some reason – also talks about lightning. Schwarzenegger has been given multiple numbers to build lightning trains in his state, but the Peace Prize winner Obama also has the desire and goals to build high-speed trains in the United States. If he now gets his troops out of Afghanistan after a while, he'll be able to afford it too. But what's my point is that these days it's 100 years since the Bergensbana was opened by the King. It was a transport revolution for Norway. It led to a completely different mobility. There were brave politicians who were behind this. Now we who are here can start a new transport revolution. We can place a lot of national aircraft on the ground. We can get many car trains and cars off the roads by going in for what the Storting has said, to have the construction of lightning trains as a goal. Let me take an item that's not so much seen when it's for trains – it's just a road that counts when it's for traffic safety. But traffic safety is actually much more – even against having good collective offers, including trains. I am very happy that we at Stortinget managed to get 15 million. kr to middle parts and 5 mill. kr to Safe Traffic, so that we can work with holding work, but we also have to think about what we actually do in relation to the train effort. In Japan, Shinkansen has been driving for 45 years. He's transported four billion people. There have been no accidents on the journeys. If all four billion people were out driving cars on bad or good highways, would there be more traffic accidents? Here we have to be a little more visionary about how to deal with different problems – so the train is partly a solution to this problem as well. If we move hundreds of thousands of vehicles and cars away from the roads, there must be fewer accidents. There'll be less noise, there'll be less road wear and there'll be less polluting traffic. I'm actually a very bad man for the climate as I travel now. If I'm going to take the train, it takes me 14 hours to go on the weekend. If I take the plane, I come out with six hours a weekend. But if we get this lightning train, I can not only travel environmentally friendly, but I can also spend much less time – four hours more. On that trip I can also sit with my PC, my e-mail, my mobile phone and be fenced up to the world of the world – almost have a home office on the lightning train on my journey to Oslo. This summer I drove fast with the director of Deutsche Bank. He said – what Right did not respond to – that one of the most important things for Norway and profitability in relation to lynchage is that we do not have competing motorways, as they do in Germany. You must not use the Right Motor Paths to destroy the payroll of the lynchage. Then they have to do as SV and government. There's other things to talk about than a lightning train, even if it doesn't sound like this. This government has now taken important steps, not least in the relationship between the city and the country. We're aware that we're differentiating policies in cities and countries, we're making sure that there's a greater focus on racial protection, we're doing something about racial protection, we're doing a road maintenance in the districts. It's very important. As President of the Lion Hill MC Club, I can also say that the Government has actually invested more in road maintenance. It's one of the most famous points in these environments. We're betting a lot more on walking and cycling roads. We are investing a lot more in ports – at least I got it – we are investing a lot more in traffic safety, and we are clearing paths in the north. I think the Norwegian people have reason to be satisfied with what the red-green government is now doing within the budgets that we are dealing with today. Then I'd rather come back in line change, if there was something that was not quite 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e722	SV knows that express buses have record low energy consumption per person. passenger kilometres, and express buses are a very environmentally friendly form of passenger transport. That is why, among other things, The representative of Langeland in the election campaign high on the track and promised express buses between Skudesneshavn and Haugesund. We know that increased use of electricity will lead to increased imports of coal from Poland and Denmark. The environmental profile of the lynch train has been slaughtered by the expert group on environmental studies from the Swedish Ministry of Finance. At the same time, we know that SV does not want to expand hydropower or gas power in Norway. What coal and nuclear power stations should SV buy power from to drive the light train? And is this a policy that takes the climate seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e729	I can guarantee that we will not purchase nuclear power from the nuclear power plant the Progress Party will build in Norway. It is simply the policy of the Progress Party that they will move forward on that project. Of course, we should focus on climate policies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and not increase them, as the Progress Party makes its proposals. Of course, then we should listen to most people too. Of those who come from the West, 87 say pst. they want a quick solution; they want to be able to choose more environmentally friendly. So there I'm completely in line with most people, and I'm very happy that this time I can support most people. When it comes to express buses, I travel very often between Stavanger and Haugesund by bus. It's very favorable. Of course, we should be involved in spreading out, so that not all of them are in their own car and are far and far ahead of us with their own cars, as the Progress Party prefers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e739	I'm going to promise to take a real lead in the Right's policy for Langeland on a later occasion. Today I am concerned with his policy, and SV is in many ways very high on the path in climate issues – perhaps especially in party speeches. With the biodiesel case fresh in mind: SV in the government really had the opportunity to take political action, and so they suggest charging instead. SV has also previously had very bold proposals to propose measures to limit passenger car use through the charging system. In this budget, the Right has promoted two concrete proposals that can bring us closer to the climate objectives, in concrete terms, with fuel and emissions requirements within our collective means of transport and public vehicles within a reasonable time. Why on earth does SV not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e748	I'm very happy that the Right is out of government, because then they come up with some creative suggestions, unlike when they're in government, because then they sit still and hope that no one sees them in position, and reduces the taxes to people the most – no, not to people the most, but to rich people the most. [[Laughter]] What's the point here in relation to biodiesel is, I think, that it's messed up by the Government and by us here on the Stortinget. We should be able to solve her before she was attached as she was. So that's the answer to that. I think the proposals that Right has when it comes to public transport and purchasing – I have told Halleraker before – are interesting suggestions, which I think we can work together to achieve in some way in the future. I'm not interested in discussing this matter further with Halleraker. But when it comes to OPS, the rush rate and these things here, I understand that we have to work with the Right – at least in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with waste time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e757	It's exciting to be right on the storyteller Langeland. It creates cheerfulness both in the hall and especially in the lodge. But some of the history becomes very subjective. This is what we see as CO2 emissions. During the Bondevik II regime, they went down. I still want to ask a completely different question. A theme not covered by Langeland, but which I know is that SV and the representative of Langeland are interested in, applies to the sick and the walking. The representative of Langeland was involved in a historic effort in the national transport plan that is not being followed up. We know that for 2010 there are three kilometres of pedestrian and bicycle roads in urban cities in Norway with the budget that lies here. My question is: Will the representative Langeland work for us to get much stronger bets – not in 2010 but in the next few years’ budget – for those who are walking and looking?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e769	Yes, I thought that the Christian People's Party's work on bicycles has been commendable now when they're out of government, and many of the things that come from the Christian People's Party, we've joined in the text that's written. I would like us to work together to get more on walking and cycling roads, because I think that is very important. It is important to get people to ride and go, because then they get better health, among other things. So here it's definitely a goal for me to get extra bets on walking and cycling paths, and preferably in cooperation with the Christian People's Party. In terms of history and so it's true that greenhouse gas emissions went down with Bondevik II, but that's because things they had built, didn't get fired up. When the gas power plants that they had built were fired, it is clear that they were slipping out. So sin, however, stems from Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e776	So the chord change is over. The majority is now suspending its negotiations, and the President will recall that the meeting will be resumed at noon. 3:30. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11:36. - - I don't know. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e791	The decision continues to deal with the case No. Two, three, four and five on Agenda No. 28.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e794	I will honestly admit that after being high up and listening to President Obama, we may need to drop a little before we're grounded enough to talk about transport – but it's an important topic as well as what we have for us today. At first, I would like to begin by saying that I think the representative Hareide has managed the committee's work in a very good way, and that seems to me to have made us switch on the tone in a good way at the beginning of the period. The center party wants to build the country. Therefore, the link between industry and transport is so important. Good transport solutions are essential for creating new jobs and for people to live where they want to live. We are in the process of changing the pace of transport policy. We are equipping the infrastructure to make everyday life easier for people, to take the climate challenges seriously, to make society more accessible to everyone and to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. Transnova and research into new technologies are important tools for getting a smarter and greener transport sector. We can bet on both environmentally friendly transport and taking business into account. The most targeted investment on the railway means that we can move a lot of freight from road to rail. In the 2010 state budget, we're going to spend 27 billion dollars. It's growth of NOK 4.7 billion, or 21 pst, compared to 2009. It represents a major uplift for the road and rail networks throughout the country. Through the administrative reform, we have strengthened the appropriations for the new county road network by NOK 1 billion. In addition, the new interest compensation scheme that will trigger new activity in the counties will amount to NOK 2 billion. I'm very happy about that. It is very important that regional politicians be given priority and to bet and link industry and transport in this way. That means we get a total activity growth on the county road network, excluding racial protection funds, for a total of 49.5 pst. This effort will improve the promotion of people and businesses, it will reduce the number of people killed and seriously injured in the transport sector and facilitate more people to travel collectively. I am proud that we have increased the appropriations for road and rail purposes by 9 billion kroner – a growth of almost 50 pst. compared to the level in 2005. In addition, there is a strong commitment to maritime transport, which is also important in order for us to get to the good link that we need when we are going to put the country into operation. We underline in the budget statement that we are adding up to a step forward in the first four-year period, in addition to the escalation in the first four-year period to the six-year period. This was also indicated in the national transport plan. In the coming years, we will be stepping up as the planning of new projects is completed, and the projects will be ready for launch. However, I am very pleased with the strong phase-in we have of funds in the 2010 budget. The centre party wants a differentiated transport policy. This has to happen if we're going to make use of the whole country. Increased investment in transport will mean an increased commitment to the development and maintenance of the road network for District Norway, a good ferry service, race protection and improvement of ports and fairways. And for many of us, the short-haul airports are also an important collective offer. It's important that we have the cross subsidisation that we have, which makes it possible to maintain those airports that are not profitable to operate. I also want to remind you that we are in the process of trying to provide more effective collective services in the districts. It'll be very interesting to see the experience from that. I have great expectations that we can get many exciting solutions even where there are not many who travel. In cities and urban areas, road still means a lot, but not least, rail and public transport will mean a lot. I also believe that the reward scheme, which has been discussed in the past, is important, but it must be provided that the municipalities are willing to take action to reduce car traffic. We're going to bet a lot on road safety in the next four years. With the last 20 million. NOK which we have put in place to deal with the budget, it is SEK 765 million. kr. There is a lot of money, and it is important that they come into action. Building safer roads is important, but I think a solid attitude-building work needs to be done. The number of fatal accidents is very often associated with speed, rush and lack of seat belt use, and in this context we need to work systematically to get more people to actually respect the guidelines and the laws we have. We have to put in super fast broadband. We're going to continue work on facilitating more capacity broadband. In parallel with the connection of the last households to the network, the capacity of the network needs to be significantly increased. This will be one of the important structural interventions that reduce distances, contribute to nutrient development and housing, and can make more jobs more remote. As I started with, the connection is nourishment and transportation important to the Center Party. It is then important to be able to say that the large road and rail operations to which the Government provides will reduce transport costs of approximately DKK 25 billion over the period 2010–2013. In the districts, it is estimated that 5.2 billion kroner in saved road transport costs. It means something to the business community. Thus, a strong road and rail effort is being set up to strengthen the transport supply to people and businesses across the country. I am also pleased that we have put in place a reintroduction of the fuel balance system. This will reduce transport costs where the price difference is greatest. Here, too, we're working on international clearance. But we're a little surprised that both the Right and the Left are so critical of that scheme. It will mean a lot to people, and it can also give the opportunity to participate in society, because the cost will be high when you see the price differences that are. I was almost tempted to invite Right on a car trip, assuming that they take the petrol costs. Then I am glad that we have received projects by our own mail. In this budget, there are three projects carried out under their own heading, and in the national transport plan, we warn that we should have new forms of contract over longer distances to look at investments, maintenance and operations in the context — in practice some kind of OPS contract, but without costly private debt financing. The state road service is developing this type of contract. It gets exciting, and one of the trials I might get in my home state, at E6, and I have great expectations for that. The centre party wishes to stimulate growth in maritime transport, while strengthening maritime safety and prevention of adverse events. Many good priorities have been identified in the national transport plan, and we also see clear results in this budget. I want to underline the importance of good fishing ports, which is a hub in very many coastal communities. It is also important for the Centre Party to put in place a heading along the coast for vessels carrying dangerous goods. For the Church and Røst, corridors have now been adopted far from the coast, and corridors for the rest of the coastal areas are now being worked on. It is also important to ensure that we have a fast-track service, in view of the freight forwarder and the passenger transporter it is, and in view of the offer of travel life. I am very pleased with the job done in the Ministry of Transport in that way. We in the Center Party believe that it is a good thing to have a residence throughout the country. Therefore, it is important to ensure good supply of public services. Postal services are part of this picture. The government has introduced cheaply enough state purchases of unprofitable postal services. It is important to ensure that you receive both the post office six days a week and that you can do a number of tasks, such as: banking services. Not everyone is still connected to the Internet bank, and many – perhaps in the oldest group – around the periphery are struggling. Therefore, I think it is affordable to have that safety valve, so that you can meet the challenges that exist where costs are high. It's looking to see that the opposition is tickling here. Sometimes I wonder if you want to advance the treatment of the Postal Directive. It's at least one thing that the Center Party is completely opposed to. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, will contribute to good communication solutions for the whole country, which reduce distances, provide optimism and ensure safe and good solutions. We're going to use the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e839	To make the whole country better used, there are a number of things you can do. Therefore, first an announcement: Where has it been made by the free-of-charge ferry project to the Centerpartiet? It has evolved from promise to publicity and finally silence. Free travel would be a good handshake to reduce transport costs in the district. The second question is: what economic conditions are there that require the NTP to be phased in and allocated less in the first planning year than the average in the 2010–2013 action programme? What are the economic conditions limiting the phase-in of NTP? Or is it really such that the government in the last period has not provided enough completed projects and has simply planned too little, given that it has not intended to spend any more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e846	Clearly, we are putting ourselves heavily on the road. As announced in the National Transport Plan, it was promised that a step-up would take place during the four-year period. That's exactly what we're doing. We're phased in an increase of 21 pst. in the present state budget, and has announced a further escalation in the national transport plan. I feel quite comfortable with that. In the case of free ferries, business actually rather wants better frequency, more departures, rather than having free ferries. That's what the government's been working on right now. You've secured a price reduction, and you're trying to get the frequency up, so you have more departures. I think that's a good solution for the future, which we're going to work on to get even more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e854	The representative of Sjelmo Nordås invited Right on a drive in the districts. I'd like to be in on that. I think that's a little pleasant. But I don't think it's the gas prices that would hit me the most when I get out of the districts. I think what would hit me the most is that there are lots of people who don't have access to proper broadband. We have analyses, statements from a lot of young people that unless there's good broadband in the districts, we don't move back. How can the Center Party be satisfied with the broadband bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e859	The centre party has invested significantly in broadband over the four years that have passed. It's now 0.2 pst, which doesn't have broadband. It is a bit of a promise that has happened since then, Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Odd Roger Enoksen spoke about broadband to everyone, and was flirted by. Now there's still to be an increase in capacity. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, together with the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, last year dropped a sample to look at how to develop capacity, ensure breadth, and ensure that the entire country gets better bandwidth on the band than it is today. That job is the basis of the Soria Moria statement that warns that this is a matter to be worked on in the next four years, to give it to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e866	The representative of Sjelmo Nordås takes up both the coast and the rapid route of his contribution. I'm glad, because I share the commitment that we need a fast route that delivers at least what we have today. In the budget we are now discussing, there are leaders for 2010. We also know that when we go into 2010, negotiations will be conducted. One of the things that has been assessed is to reduce the sailing pattern of the fast route, for example. during winter, from seven days to five days a week. It'll be evaluated. So my question to the representative of Sjelmo Nordås is: can she guarantee that she will work so that we at least succeed in creating the quality of the sailing pattern that we have today, and that the fast route will also go every day in winter time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e873	I recall the words of former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete in August/September, where she indicated that today's sailing pattern will continue and that all 34 ports will have calls. I think that is a good starting point for the negotiations that should be. It will ensure Coast Norway a good solution in the future. I feel confident that the current Minister for Transport is working on the same track.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e878	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e881	The Left's alternative state budget is a budget that prioritises transport and the environment. Our approach involves a strong strengthening of the commitment to a better train and collective provision and a better road play. In total, Left spends 940 million. kr more over the framework area than that resulting from the Government’s proposals. The left is concerned with accessibility and road safety, both in cities and districts. We support essentially the Government's proposal for a promise of a commitment to maintenance and investment framework on the road. However, we note that from the day one, there is a delay in the follow-up to the electoral commitments to follow up the national transport plan. Within the road effort, the Left in its alternative budget proposes a budget of 50 million. kr more for racial protection and a new scheme to reward municipalities on foot-and-mouth routes, with a framework of 50 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. We also give local public transport a significant boost through a doubling of the reward scheme, and we make the funds from it also available for bets on urban railway projects. The left is a follow-up to the targets we have set in our alternative national transport plan, with a four-hour journey time Oslo–Bergen and Oslo–Trondheim, three hours Oslo–Kristiansand and 80 minutes to the extremes of the intercity triangle in the East. This is the start of a future bet on a fully-fledged offer of high-speed trains, while at the same time triggering large parts of the potential of today's infrastructure development. Of the projects that are worth drawing out, new double tracks are Oslo–Ski, where we propose to get ahead of work. It is pointed out that this project stops due to a lack of capacity for planning work in the municipalities concerned. We'll give you 50 million. NOK to get ahead of this. The left proposes major planning appropriations for new double tracks, such as Hamar-Lillehammer, for new Ringeriksbahn and for new capacity through Oslo. The latter is a project that is demanding but difficult to get out of. In order to address this, there is a broad consensus to put in place double tracks in the intercity triangle in the east. It will provide for a new increase in capacity and the possibility of frequent take-offs. With today's infrastructure, the Oslo Tunnel is heavily loaded, and without a better solution to this east-west link through Oslo, I fear that this will be a significant bottleneck when the new double tracks are finished. This is something I have expectations that the Government will follow up. The left also proposes an allocation of 100 million. kr to strengthen maintenance on the Oslo network. This shall be used to limit settings and delays. The Copenhagen Climate Summit is currently underway and is an attempt to establish an obligatory agreement on climate pollution reductions. I had hoped that the government had supported the Left's alternative budget, where we have put in significant increases in collective and rail bets. Not only had this contributed to lower emissions – we had also had much left in the form of regional development and better communications for both businesses and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e900	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e903	The representative's tendency is 'high and light' when she boasts of the Left's alternative state budget. It is well to cover the lack of effort left had on the railway when they themselves put in government and had the Minister of Transport. It might seem that the longer the left gets away from power, the better they get, while in the government we actually add up for every year we sit in government. My question relates to a play that tended to have last week, and which she was so far inside in her article as well. It's on the traffic diversion in the Oslo area. With what we grant next year, we'll be able to make improvements on the railway, while the railway network won't be closed disproportionately long and hit the travelers extra much. Does the representative tend to feel that it is better to hit the passengers disproportionately by closing the railway network for longer periods of time to get maintenance done – which in turn reflects the lack of maintenance from when the Left put in power?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e912	I want to thank the representative Gorm Kjernli for the question, and I am very pleased that we have the same intention. We both represent Akershus, so I know what challenges we're facing. In the case of money use, it is that we use approx. as much money as you do. We have a lot more money to spend now, so I think it's a little unfair with the number exercise you're doing all the time – and the comparison with the money we had when we were in government. Then I think Gorm Kjernli should be happy with the means we put into the double track – the means of planning. The double track Oslo-Ski is delayed. We need 511 million. kr there, and the municipalities do not have money for planning. So a common promise, instead of criticizing each other, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e921	The President is uncertain as to whether the term ‘unforgivable’ is appropriate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e924	Let me congratulate the former Vice-Chairman of the Transport Committee on his financial position. It turns out to be the way Left now cuts, because a couple of cuts seem very strange to me – from a party occupied by the districts. One's cut in the 200-million post office. kr. I want the Left to explain the consequences. Is it that we don't get to open a post office on Saturday and don't get a refund on Saturday? Will there be fewer additions? What are the consequences of these cuts of 200 million? kr, as a mail service cut now? So it's like I'm very happy that the Left now is out of government in relation to the train effort that we're now getting. So if it were the 2005 budget of the Left that should be in order, we would not have had the money for the Oslo-Ski section alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e934	First, a comment for the post: the left has always put the users in the center. We have been a promoter of Post in Store and mail at the gas station, while other parties in this room have gone to the election to maintain all post offices. We all see that it was wise to think in the future. So that's how we expect the Post to be more efficient. The item has a monopoly in profitable areas and we believe that it can contribute with funding from its own budgets. If they cannot do so, the state will have to contribute, because we – as the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland – want us to have postal transport throughout the country, six days a week – leave no doubt about it. And then to the next question. I am absolutely sure that Mr H. Langeland would have voted in favour of the alternative budget of the Left. Reward scheme for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e943	When you hear the Left talk about transport challenges, it's very rare they move far beyond the Oslo area. I want to point to our tribal roads and to the important importance they have for business and people and to ensure settlement throughout the country. I'm a little uncertain about Left's involvement in these issues. It works, for example. with important projects like Rogfast, like Hordfast and other projects that we know are in time. My question to the Left is short and good: will the Left support these fjord crossings when it comes to political treatment? And the Left will be an active driver for us, for example. Will the West be reduced by overcoming as many of our feathers as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e950	I have noticed that the centre party in the election campaign has been around all over the country and told how little district friendly left is. That's actually not true. And I support the projects that the representative is talking about there – definitely. We haven't cut in there. What I had expected the representative to come in on was the cuts in some road sections. And it's not about cuts; it's just shifts. For what we discovered was that some sections of the road, which the Senterpartie sold out in the election campaign, were simply not finished. So we've pushed them out a little bit in time. We'll come back with them. In the meantime, for example, we are betting. in a four-hour journey to Bergen – it is good district policy, four hours to Trondheim – it is good district policy, and 50 million. kr more for racial protection – it is good district policy. [[The President clubs.]] The reward scheme for... yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e957	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e960	My ambition as the Council of State is to contribute to making the country smaller, safer and more environmentally friendly. One of the most obvious images of this government is that we have moved the debate on transportation from party speakers to money on the table. Plans are no longer just plans. Adding to railway works no longer creates plans for the archive; they plan projects to be realized. The railway system and the state road system have had much more to do. They'll get even more. I think they're happy for themselves, and it's a joy that's shared by many. The 2010 budget proposal amounts to $27.1 billion. There is a total growth of approximately SEK 4.7 billion, or 21.2 p.p., compared to the current budget for 2009. The government has increased the permits by 9 billion kroner, or 46.3 pst., since 2005 to road and road goals. The country is getting better bonded together, making it smaller as well. Security is an overriding objective of transport policy. Even if the accident rate so far in 2009 shows that the negative accident trend in 2008 has turned out to be far too high. With zero vision as a starting point and with a comprehensive accident analysis recently submitted, the work on road safety must be directed specifically at the most serious types of accidents and road users with a particularly high accident risk. Measures to prevent the most serious accidents – meeting accidents, road accidents, accidents caused by vulnerable road users – are therefore the highest priority. It's a safer road. It is also about responsible drivers. When the licenses for racial protection increase by 92 pst., it's about quality of life. It is a matter of greater security for all those who travel on the roads every day with great anxiety about what may come down – parents who are afraid to send the young on the school bus, about the transport of food that is at risk of life and health. The transport sector is over-exploited in Norway. There have been several speakers today. Here the new radical grip is required. A bold policy is required if we are to reach the goals we have seen. The target must in the long term be a fleet consisting of low-end or zero-eject cars. So stimulating new technologies that can be competitive in relation to the technology we know today is crucial. We're in good shape. If we look at emissions from new cars, it happened very little before 2005. After 2005 and until now, emissions from new cars have been reduced by about 10 %. 15 pst. The target by 2012 is 30 pst. An emission blackout has become much more expensive, while cars with lower emissions have been cheaper than $50,000. In the 2010 state budget, the one-off charge will be tightened further. That means we're on the path. When, at these times, a large political party may propose to cut the trajectories of Transnova, the transport sector's response to Enova, it underlines that one will not take seriously. Transnova is intended to stimulate the new infrastructure needed by a low-emission or zero-emission car fleet. Transnova is an innovation that has come to be. Transnova will be one of the main targets for achieving climate targets in the transport sector. A new car park is not enough in itself. We also need a change in urban areas from private cars to more collectively. Here's the pruning system central. Cities with the most radical grips to reduce car usage will be premiered. The government proposes $6.5 billion for road investment. It is an increase of SEK 1.67 billion, or more than 34 p.p., compared to 2009. 17 000 km of road and 77 ferries are transferred from the country to the county municipalities. The reform also requires the county councils to design the supply for most of Ferje-Noreg in the future. It is such that the county councils will have a larger financial framework to manage the road network they take over than is currently used by the state on the same road network. Let me say in connection with ferries that the work of further developing a new national ferry card is in progress. The plan is that road users will be able to use a map for all national road ferries, and also for the county road ferries where the county authorities will facilitate it. The investments in the railway infrastructure will be SEK 3.9 billion, an increase of 22.5 pst. Yesterday I was delighted to give the Railway Agency a mission, together with the Swedish Banverket, to define the role that the Meråkerbahn can play in the Nordic transport system in the future. A central point of this work is the identification of costs against the positive regional effects of electrification of the Meråkerbahn. That seems to me to be a good picture of the development in the railway field in recent years. This is a stretch that was on a sod bed, which is now able to tolerate heavier trains faster. So we're going to take the next step. Measurement of the results of railway interoperability may take time. Especially in the Oslo area, the railway runs for many years with too low runs for operation and maintenance, tight traffic, high wear and tear and old technical installations with high complexity. The Oslo project shall involve an effort of DKK 2 billion over four years. This exceptional high effort on the maintenance of the Oslo railway area will eventually result in a much better quality of train services with ring-links far beyond the Oslo area – especially after the completion of the work on the West Corridor in 2011. The government has launched railway installations, which include double-track extension from Oslo, in the Vestfold and Gevingåsen tunnel on the Nordlandsbanen. The double-track Sandnes – Stavanger shall be formally opened on Monday. In 2010, these installations shall be continued with the most rational progress possible. The forthcoming take-up of the high-speed rail shall have as its objective the construction of the high-speed rail. In a short time, the Ministry of Transport will send a concrete assignment to the Railway Agency with implementation in 2010 and 2011. The distribution shall propose different action options for the development of long-distance passenger transport by train. It shall be played on external actors and international competences. An open and inclusive process in-progress shall be highlighted. Avinor faces major investment and financing challenges in the coming years, not least when it comes to security. In addition to the investment incentive for security measures at regional airports of 50 million. The Government proposes that in 2010 the government loan be subject to a repayment waiver that financed the expansion of Gardermoen. Nor is it planned to exchange Avinor next year. Overall, these measures will help Avinor to implement the necessary collateral investments. When I read the settings, I get to stress that this is a budget with a heart for the whole country. I wonder every time I see a political party that takes the burden of cutting into basic infrastructure for parts of the country. What we have in Norway, with big cities, towns, towns and villages, is one of the strongest qualities in this country. What is it that makes some parties think that only people in central strokes should have the post six days a week? Why should non-constructed people have access to basic banking services? The post has to go. When necessary, the Government will also set up there. Why does one create another uncertainty about the airport structure? We have to understand what these mean for people and businesses who use them in their daily work. Why is it so hard to even out the differences in fuel prices? I don't understand this commitment. It's an attack on parts of Norway's population. For the Government, it's important to bet on transportation to give people real freedom of choice with regard to where they want to go. Then I have to be allowed to say that the government has documented both the will and the ability so far to bet on transportation. For my part, I have been delighted to see that Steinkjer has become a new city, because E6 is improved. I've met young people in Finnøy who've got their mainland connection. I've met people in Kjøsnesfjorden who don't have to look up along the mountain sides for race, because they've got a new tunnel. I've been in Farsund and I've seen optimism because the Lister package is now being realized. The 2010 budget is an important step in the right direction to make the country smaller, safer and more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1016	The councils said she was proud of the budget. Then I realize that the Council of State is proud that the Bratsberg Railway is being laid down in Telemark. My question is that the Road Service now requires 500 million kroner. to take responsibility for the design of the new county road network. So now we see that one county authority after another is considering taking the money – we have seen examples that someone has already done so – from the road budget to public transport or other services in the county. In addition, we know that the State Road Service has chosen not to undertake repair work on tunnels and other things, because the counties are going to take over it, and then they can only get those challenges caught. I wonder how a government council from a party that tries to make itself a party occupied by the districts may be concerned that it is the roads in the districts that will suffer – the roads that have the least traffic and the roads that there is the least need to make repairs, and you have to take it where it is most important. Then you give priority to the districts and make sure that people can’t live in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1025	I do not share the presentation of this case by the Progress Party. On the contrary, for the 17 000 km of road and the ferry services currently to be taken over by the county municipalities, they receive, in addition to free revenues, DKK 1 billion for distribution, a loan scheme corresponding to DKK 2 billion for interest compensation, and a five billion for roads. That means they have more to go than before. Then some have tried to rematch with road administration. It goes without saying that this transfer is entirely dependent on a good interaction between the State Road Administration and the county municipalities. That's what I think we're going to get. And the State Road Service must have the means to pay for the people who are going to do the tasks of county councils. What they now have the possibility of seeing is different work and different areas in a context. So I have to say that it probably bothers me a little bit too that the county councils are now doing well to spend money on other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1032	I want to ask the Council of State a little bit about the high-speed initiative. After all, the size has been a driving force in this case for several years – and then a large majority on the Stortinget, in fact. Then you can get the impression that there have been resistance and forces both in the government apparatus and in the underlife against these ideas. I hope I'm wrong – and I also think that the Council's posts carry a promising commandment that I do. There is a need for ‘significant resources in 2010’, says the Committee. I have a few questions. How much resources does the Council of State see as necessary? So to this with project organisation. How will the project organisation be composed, and what will be the role of the Railway Agency after the Stortingen request for a separate project organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1039	Let me first say that I think the plans that have been – let's say – the air and discussion in different contexts are exciting and forward-looking. So from the Government's side, we see a three-part job. These days, as I said in my article, work one with a mandate for a distribution. Then this distribution is to be delivered to the Railway Agency, which will be assigned to continue the work, but by playing both on external players and on international expertise. I have seen that the term ‘project organisation’ is named and underlined in that context, and the project organisation will be. So the government is going to come up with a recommendation and a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1044	I would like to say, like the representative Halleraker, that the Council of State signaled in relation to the lightning train and its layout, I thought it was constructive. But I have another question, and it concerns the TT regime, which is also listed in the budget setting. After all, it is an important tool for achieving the objectives of the Discrimination and Equality Act. Majority — i.e. Government Party, Right and Christian People's Party – has registered a strong desire from user organisations to get a more similar practice from both local and local authorities on this scheme. Today, some people have no possibility of getting out more than actually one day of the month because the TT scheme is not good enough. Now there is a testing scheme, and in the light of this testing scheme, will the Council of State come back with a case to raise the quality and quantity of the TT scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1052	Like its leader, I am also concerned that both TT schemes and other accessibility measures should be improved. In this field, there have been very many words of honor for a long time. Then a law passed on the road. We have now done so with a new law on discrimination. Then we can't follow up – of course it has to do with the fact that there's a lot of money. The answer to the question is yes. An evaluation shall be carried out following an examination scheme. And then we'll see how we're going to follow this up. Let me also say that, in view of facilitating more accessibility, I have invited the Government's Disability Council and representatives from the disabled people's organisations to a meeting in January to see how we can get on together. Seventh and last, unfortunately, much of this is about budget counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1059	It's tempting to comment on both mail delivery and fuel subsidies, but I'm going to focus on what I was going to ask about, and what the Minister for Transport was also talking about. This is the Oslo Tunnel, which is the hub of the railway system itself in our country. Now this tunnel has only two tracks, while on both sides – both east and west – there will be four tracks. The tunnel is almost fully exploited as it is per. today. We get in a situation where there are four tracks on both sides, but only two tracks through the tunnel. Is the Council satisfied with this, or does she see the need for this to be a problem and that we really need a new tunnel? We know that in that case will take a very long time to plan, because it's a demanding area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1064	Let me first say that I'm obviously not satisfied with the situation as he is now in the Oslo area. I think it is imperative to wake up to messages of different kinds of delay. Then I've seen that some parties have written in the settings -- I don't know if I've read the settings carefully enough, but at least I think that the Right Party and the Advance Party have shown it -- that there have been great omissions here for a long time. Indeed, it is like one on the railway infrastructure now struggling with – long-term omissions, high use of the infrastructure that exists, and a large amount of work on the railway network as part of efforts to improve long-term operational stability. So the situation is going to get better, but it'll take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1071	We're going back to the ferry. For balancing regional price differences, the Government spends 20 million. kr. The user payment on all national roads in one year is NOK 2 billion. It says a little bit about the perspective. I guess that's also one of the reasons, even if it's not expressed, for the Center Party when, relatively quickly after the election, you have chosen to delete the program post to bet on free ferries. We heard the reason earlier here from a colleague of the Council of State – in the same party – and it was that we want to bet on increased opening time and better frequency. But it's the way that the ferries that move to the counties have the same amount of money as they get in 2009. How will the Council of State ensure that the ferry offer actually improves when the responsibility is transferred from the state to 19 counties? How will the frequency, opening time – at all, the ferry service – improve after this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1078	I've registered a big commitment to being able to influence, not least in the supply situation that now most of the ferries have already been in. There are some ferry connections yet to light up on offer. Seeing ferry services in conjunction with other public transport is important for municipalities. For my part, I see it this way: moving so many of the ferries closer to where people travel, also responsible, it's of the good. This will allow the county councils to look at this with new eyes in the hands of the passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1083	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1086	In high school, everyone in class had to make a verse of Håvamål. That verse I pugged, is still sitting and is with me as a thread of my political commitment: ‘You were better off on the ground’ than man-white. D’are better than gold in the front garden; white is the poor man’s comfort.’ What we know is that the man-made climate change will put us on a huge test, and that we have to act now, before it's too late. Climate change has been said to be comparable to a frog and boiling water. If you put a frog in a pot of boiling water, it will jump out immediately. But if you put a frog in a pot of temperate water and boil it up slowly, the frog will stay in the water until it is boiled. I do not intend to be cooked, or too late to realize that it is too hot. We need to take climate change seriously in all areas, especially in the transport sector. One third of Norway’s domestic greenhouse gas emissions come from this sector. We have a great job to do to cut here. The 2010 State Budget is enough of a budget to show that the Government is betting on environmentally friendly railways. Railway appropriations have increased annually since 2005 and by 15 pst. next year's growth, we are well on track to achieve the objectives of an ambitious transport plan. Projects under way are being followed up, new projects are being launched, and new double-track Oslo–Ski, which is a matter before I was born, gets a separate entry in the budget of 130 million. kr for planning purposes. It's the red-green government that makes sure this comes into place, and I have to admit that I'm actually a little proud of. When train traffic stops in the Oslo area in a rush, 80,000 people have problems getting to or from work. We have to fix this. Next year, 470 million. kr for railway improvements. Two billion will be spent over the next four years, and the 470 million will do what you have to do in 2010 without disproportionately overcoming traffic disruption and hitting the travellers. I am pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party are working with the Government to maintain the pressure on the investigation of high-speed trains for at least 250 km/h, with construction as a goal. It is good that it is a broad political majority that wants trains to compete with flights between the major Norwegian cities. After decades of neglect, the state of Norwegian railway is not on top. Much has to be done to get it into standard, but at the same time we have to think more forward-looking. Norway has a lot of traffic on domestic flights. The potential for high-speed rails is present. There is much that is not at stake in the policy of the Progress Party, but in the case of high-speed rails, it takes cake if possible. For in the budget setting, the Progress Party refers to train lines built for 250 km/h as a direct grotesque in terms of nature intervention and calls it an airlock. It is touching with the concern of the Advance Party for nature, but then – in the next section – they take a positive view of any privately funded high-speed rail system. What are you giving me? State-funded high-speed trains are grotesque, but if it's private, it can obviously be as grotesque as it pleases. Make sure it's the one that can. The reward scheme for better public transport and less car use is the State instrument we have for improving public transport around urban areas. In order to improve the climate, we need to reduce car traffic and increase the proportion of public travellers. The reward scheme is a targeted grant. It doubled in 2009 and will double over the four-year period. Transnova is another important measure for more climate-friendly transport. The testing scheme has been successful, with 52 million. kr is granted in 2010. The Labour Party and the other government parties also say in the government statement that we want to make Transnova a permanent body. The potential for their activities is great. It is probably the case that when Bergensbanen was built 100 years ago, the budget for transport accounted for a larger proportion of the total budget than the 2010 budget for transport, but it does not distance us from the fact that there is a historical commitment to transport we are in the process of implementing. €10 billion for rail will create a more climate-friendly transport system in Norway. My grandchildren won't judge me on how we managed the 2010 financial crisis, but on what we did to counteract global climate change. I want to see my future grandchildren in my eyes, not give up in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1123	I can't wait to say with the address of the previous speaker that I think the frog can bathe safely. The bath water is still going to have a comfortable temperature. The budget for 2010 is currently being discussed by the Stortinget. It is the first financial year of a new national transport plan for the period 2010–2019, which the Stortingen dealt with in June following extensive work. The Norwegian people have no reason to be satisfied with the budget. No one in need of transport has reason to be satisfied with the budget. The starting point for the new year and the new budget 2010 is that Norway has widened the gap between transport needs and infrastructure standards over a long period of time. By the end of 2010, the oil fund will be close to NOK 2 600 billion. Never has Norway been richer. Nevertheless, we have never had a greater gap between transport needs and standard on road and rail. In one of the world’s richest countries, poor transport policy provides Norway with a road network and a rail network that is among Europe’s worst, most remote and most worn out. Let me particularly stress that Norway needs to build a lot more way and do it much faster than the Government and the other parties add up to. The progress party will build a lot more way, and we'll do it a lot faster. Climate is in focus. Whether theories and data are erroneous, fixed, deficient or one-sided, the conclusions can be bad and the consequences can be disastrous. This applies not least in the transport sector. When the Progress Party will build more roads, much faster, it will provide more efficient transport. It involves faster transport, safer transport and energy-efficient transport. Better roads, which are energy-efficient roads, are also environmentally friendly roads. This is why new roads across Europe are also being built in countries that are all participating in climate meetings. As shown in the study by Sintef, one of Europe’s largest independent research institutes, good roads provide less greenhouse gas emissions. I know that the Transport Economic Institute recently produced a report that argues the opposite – that the best way to reduce emissions from the road sector is not to build better roads. But I know a little about the data base in that report, and I also know that the conclusion will be met by SINTEF. For the Progress Party, it stands out: we believe Norway needs a much better path, quickly. For most people in this country, it's actually crucial. Traffic history in the back for many decades is too small and too late. There is a aftermath on the modernisation and maintenance of the road network, the rail network, yes, the entire transport network, worked up over many decades with many governments, including Stoltenberg I and II and labour party governments before that time. In the view of the Progress Party, a new national transport plan and the State budget for 2010 will not change. A $20 million settlement. Nor does the 2010 budget make any difference. Unfortunately, the history of transport in the future seems to be influenced by exactly the same thing: too little and too late. It will take between 50 and 70 years before we get a transport sector with modern and safe roads and a modern railway that is not standing, but going. The gap between needs and standards will be difficult for many decades if the policy is not changed. The national transport plan, which should be the starting point for the budget, does not in any way cover the need for investment and maintenance. The 2010 state budget also does not cover the first year of the plan. It is, according to the point of view of the Progress Party, a deplorable start from a government that continues to boast of the journey promise of time – but the measurement is crowns towards the back and not towards the need in the future. The need for the renewal and modernisation of transport policy is great. In the 2010 government budget, the Government’s ‘renewal contribution’ is that 17 000 km of bad roads are being moved to the counties and 78 of the current 95 national road link are also being moved. The Progress Party will stop the administrative reform, we will increase the maintenance effort on the other national roads today – with state resources, not with loans to county municipalities. The Progress Party will start work on introducing free national roads paid by state resources; we will not let the ferries sail their own sea – so to speak – under the direction of 19 different states. The Progress Party believes that administrative reform is bad transport policy. Another ‘renewal’ from the Government in budgetary terms is that the E16 over Filefjell and E6 west of Alta have received their own entries on the State budget. It is obviously meant to be a kind of response to the earlier commitments made by the Workers' Party on project financing. Own entry on the State budget is not project finance; it is not even close to a poor imitation of project funding. The renewal of transport policy is completely lacking. It's wanted by many. Not least was the call for proposals for work on the national transport plan. It came in, among others. from the lords of Sigbjørn Johnsen, at that time the county of Hedmark, and Matz Sandman, the councillor of Buskerud. In a chronicle in the Evening Post in 2008, they are calling for new tracks and saying the following: ‘The time is therefore overdue to rethink in relation to society’s needs for infrastructure investment.’ These two gentlemen also say that road and rail must be given freedom of action: ‘The Railway Agency and the State Road Administration should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks, as is the case with Avinor for aviation and Entra for state building needs.’ This is what Sigbjørn Johnsen and Matz Sandman said in 2008. The Progress Party has said the same for a long time. We said that when we presented our own national transport plan for 2010–2019, and we say it again in our alternative state budget for 2010. The Progress Party will renew its transport policy by using well-known organisational and financial tools to ensure state funding of necessary investments in road and rail. The Progress Party will, as Sigbjørn Johnsen has previously proposed, transform the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency into State companies or undertakings. In this way, the Progress Party will provide the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency with the Sigbjørn Johnsen in 2008 as ‘the freedom to act’. The Progress Party will use a government loan scheme and annual interest compensation from the State budget to provide long-term, clear and predictable funding. The Progress Party will eliminate uncertainty and unforeseeability regarding state financing of road and rail. I remember that government loans and interest compensation are not hokuspokus, there are tools that the Storting knows, and that the Storting uses. In addition, the Progress Party uses earmarked returns from parts of the oil fund to finance part of the investment in the infrastructure. The use of returns from the oil fund is also not new. In fact, the new thing is to do what the Stortinget has decided, to use the return on investment in Norway — precisely on road and rail. In the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, the Progress Party is following its own alternative national transport plan: more than SEK 60 billion more for transport than the Government's proposal. This is a journey promise. The Progress Party will be committed to ensuring that Norway, one of the world's richest countries, also has world-class infrastructure. In these days, Norway’s handball ladies are fighting for the World Cup medal. The Progress Party wants Norway to take the World Cup medal in road and rail. With clear funding, there may be a revolutionary renewal of the road network and the rail network in Norway – a renewal that can take place for 25 years, and not 70 years, which we can risk with this government, and a funding to be provided with government funds without the use of tolls. It is possible to do so financially, and it is possible to do so in terms of capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1178	The train capacity of travellers, as well as the shipment of goods, has a potential for growth. The railway has many future and current beekeepers – think to be so sought after and then accompliced in terms of just satisfying them. The time window is now such that people want to act environmentally friendly. Then the railway is a good alternative. Too many train is the only current option. The train not only competes by car, but also by bus – and in many places this is not the case. Year after year, the railway has been neglected. Many have a lot to answer for. The travellers' experiences of good travels are there, but most dominating are all the stories of delays, lack of seating, poor performance when the rails are smooth of ice, the snow too heavy or the heat creates curls on the rails – or the game that passed in front of the train just when the train arrived. And who hasn't heard of the signalling system? Most of them, I think. After today's plans, it will take 15 years for this to be corrected. Or what about overhead lines that have fallen down? The Council of State says that we should wait a long time for this to be corrected – it should be for such a long time. The result is frustrated travelers, with good reason. They have paid the full price and get a lack of value for the money. Employees working on and around trains do a formidable job. What is lacking is a lack of willingness to give political priority and organisation in terms of implementation. The promises in the campaign were many, bold and beautiful – but what does it help? When the government came into the offices, this was forgotten, and the result was 800 million. kr less in 2010 than that of the beautiful national transport plan – and that is only the first year. The problems are repeated year after year, and the same medicine is prescribed. The government shows no willingness to alternative treatment — neither to release to others with another type of funding, nor to look at other forms of operation. It is a shame to our country that it could best contribute to the reduction of hazardous environmental emissions by investing in the transport sector is absent. An offensive commitment to the development of Public Private Cooperation and the modernisation of the railway organisation is also not of the steps that the Government will take. The Plan Programme for Oslo-Ski shall be established by the Ministry of Transport. A more efficient planning process is important, and today's reports from the Council of State are positive. Experience with similar projects abroad is also good, and we need to use it actively. New double track between Oslo and Ski is the second largest project in the national transport plan. This track will be an important link in a future Scandinavian high-speed line, and the double track must be part of a comprehensive strategy for the new Eastfold route. The aim must be to avoid bottlenecks and curves with unnecessary speed limits and to achieve the best possible trasé choice adapted to a speed of both 160 km/h and 250 km/h. However, some tens of miles of action does not provide a summer. With all the unsolved necessary needs that lie there, significant, rapid and more offensive measures are required. There is no contrast between planning for fast trains and fast trains. Travellers are concerned with the year in which they can expect the train, and the train path, to be there, and not with crew shortages and capacity problems. As the Right sees it, it is necessary to allocate funds for the planning of routes and the establishment of cooperation between public authorities and private actors in terms of development and funding. The development of the double-track across the intercity triangle Skien, Lillehammer, Oslo, Halden – and the EU – is a very demanding investment on rail, but nevertheless necessary. That's the year of completion that's interesting for the users. This should be possible to complete during a 10-year period. In the eastern part of the country, it is imperative, for reasons of accessibility, also in a larger context of planning, taking into account where it is possible for people to live and whether they can easily get to work. A journey time from Halden to Oslo by train in one hour will open up completely different housing patterns than what we have today, and relieve the central metropolitan area. This will be good for both Oslo and the surrounding country. The right considers that a high level of public purchasing of passenger transport by train is necessary in order to provide the public with a good collective service and to reduce congestion problems in urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1206	Every year about 250 people are killed on Norwegian roads. In addition, thousands of people are injured. Although we see that the numbers of people killed and injured in traffic are falling, we still need to intensify our efforts. We need to intensify efforts to reduce the consequences of the accidents that occur and to intensify efforts to prevent accidents from occurring. Traffic accidents are major tragedies for the individual family, and they impose heavy costs on society. The zero vision, the desire for a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic, must be our leading driver in road safety work, and it is an important premise in transport policy. It is good road safety policy to bet on rail, as we do, because it moves people from car to train. It is good road safety policy to invest in better public transport, as we do, because it reduces the number of cars on the roads. The additional effect is that it is also good for the climate, which is not immaterial in these climate meeting times. Traffic safety work is based on a holistic approach, where many measures and agencies work together. There are no easy solutions, no quick fix, and we think it is important to stress that we can never build ourselves out of traffic accidents, as some batches give the impression. The opposition parties, especially the Advance Party and the Right, have a rhetoric about road safety that says that only they get a pass to build multiple motorways, we've solved the challenges. Motorways and roads with middle parts are an effective measure — yes. But we never want to build highways all over the country, nor do we want roads with middle parts all over the country. And we know that traffic accidents actually happen all over the country. It is therefore important that a balanced policy takes account of this. A recent analysis of road accidents by the state has been made by the road authorities. It shows that high speed is contributing to half of the fatal accidents on Norwegian roads. Driving in a drug-induced condition is contributing cause of 27 pst. of the fatal accidents. In addition, the analysis shows that the non-use of safety equipment largely results in fatal accidents. 41 pst. by dead persons in the car in 2008 did not use a seat belt. In addition, high speed has resulted in fatal accidents. That's why we in the Workers' Party believe that we don't need higher speed limits. We need a greater effort to get people to keep the speed limits that we actually have. We also need a greater effort to get more people to use the seat belt and drive without any rest. Police controls are the most effective measures in the short term. That's why we want more visible police on the roads. Breaking the Road Traffic Act is a crime in line with other offences, but the consequences can be so much greater. People die in traffic. Therefore, the government will strengthen the law enforcement police, as opposed to other parties, who believe that it should have been abolished. Automatic traffic control is another effective measure. The same thing is average measurement of the velocity between the photoboxes. The Party of Progress and the Right proposes to terminate the average measurement, inter alia: on the grounds that it is dangerous if road users follow the speedometer. When did speed limits become dangerous to traffic? Young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are overrepresented in serious road accidents. In Norway, 25 pst. of all road accident deaths in this age group, while representing 10 pst. of the population and accounts for approx. 7 pst. of traffic. We are therefore committed to putting in place good and effective measures to reduce the number of accidents involving young people, and we are pleased with the proposed Plan of Action against Youth Accidents, developed by the State Road Administration, the Police and Safety Traffic. Safe Traffic is doing a very good job in the awareness-raising work, especially for children and young people, and we are therefore very pleased that the entire committee joined the proposal to increase the funding for Safe Traffic by DKK 5 million, and that the increase in the allocation will be used to combat youth accidents. The depth analysis shows that road and road conditions may affect the outcome of an accident. The Labour Party therefore believes that action on the roads is also important. This involves both building new roads, implementing road safety measures on existing roads and strengthening maintenance. In the national transport plan, DKK 100 billion has been added over the next ten years. This is a historically high stake and a very good starting point for improving road safety. In 2009, efforts in road safety measures have doubled from last year and will be used on average 860 million. kr every year on road safety measures on the main roads over the next 10 years, an increase of 160 pst. In order to further strengthen road safety efforts, the red-green batches have proposed an increase of 15 million. kr next year, so that we can build even more middle parts than what was in the government proposal. The government budget proposal was a good budget proposal for improving road safety, and we have further strengthened the road safety profile. All in all, we are left with a budget proposal with a clear road safety profile, which will ensure that road accidents continue to decline and will help to build the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1234	I do not intend to compare either the budgetary procedure or climate change to the way frogs and toads relate to hot or warmer water, but simply state that this is not a budget that provides for backlogs and demands for new infrastructure in terms of both track, road and communications. Nor is it a budget that takes care of the whole country. Unfortunately, in 2010 and beyond, too, we will again experience that too many people will die or be destroyed for their lives in traffic. Over 70 pst. due to the fatal accidents caused by poor roads and small safety zones, Swedish Folksam notes. Worse still, so many young people become victims that as politicians we do not take the responsibility we should take. I would like to challenge the government parties here: is the responsibility that should be taken, namely to give our own people and our own business a road standard that is both safe and effective for the needs of society for the transport of people and goods? Well, in Norway, we have technical challenges with our topography, but we have all the prerequisites, through our good financial situation, to give our citizens a safe, safe and effective standard of way – to work, to school and to kindergarten. I would rather turn this upside down and ask: How in the world can we as a nation sacrifice more than 250 dead and over 1,000 hard muddy cities in traffic every year, when we are today sitting on information that miserable road standards are the cause of over 70 pst. of the accidents? This is a tragedy for those involved, and socially totally irresponsible. That is why the Progress Party has allocated far more funds than the Government to safe roads, over DKK 20 billion more, to the mid-term SEK 750 million. kr more, for other security measures 250 million. NOK more and for racial protection NOK 1 billion more. We can no longer allow ourselves as a nation to lose so many in traffic. In fact, someone has to take responsibility. We can afford it. What we can't afford is to lose so many. In North Norway, the government has failed both in road construction and in racial protection – regardless of whether the Workers' Party had to applaud Trom's county government. For North Norway it is a cut in relation to NTP of 190 million. NOK on the road side and SEK 123 million. kr on the race safety side only for corridor 8. It's cut at over $2 billion for the rest of the country. E105 from the Russian border to the Churches is exposed, despite beautiful promises during the election campaign. At all, there's a flau North Area bet. The progress part goes in by 100 million. kr more to E105 than the Government in the period. The government claims this is a bet on commerce. Well, history is full of emperors who haven't had any clothes at all, and here we have a new one without clothes. The Progress Party proposed an investigation into a new coastal road in Finnmark, a road that would well link the coast. This would be important for the fishing industry and the tourism industry and would put our coastal communities in a much better position in terms of population and business start-ups. Today Vardø, Båtsfjord, Berlevåg, Nordkap and many more end stations for roads that are not connected. Over the past 25 to 30 years, the coast of Finnmark has experienced a deportation there of 25 pst. the population has moved. The SSB has carried out living conditions studies which clearly establish that among the 15 worst municipalities in Norway, 11 or 12 are located in Finnmark, most of them on the coast. This is a proposal for an investigation and is not yet a construction case. It's amazing and critical that we have a government that doesn't want to expand the necessary infrastructure, that takes care of the needs of our societies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1254	The organisation and development of communication is one of the most important tasks of a government. This is an increasingly difficult task, as the different parts of a modern society are interdependent and individuals need more communication with public institutions. I would have preferred to talk about the need for and wish for a strong expansion of conventional communications, i.e. road and rail, in my home country, the Nord-Trøndelag. I cannot fail to mention that we have a deep hope that the Council of State will continue the planning of a joint project for the development of road and rail between Stjørdal and Steinkjer, a project that has merged with the municipalities concerned. The importance of electrification of the Trunder Railway has emerged in a recent analysis, which shows that trains driven by diesel locomotives have significantly greater emissions than buses — well to mark modern buses. Therefore, this applies not only to the Trønderbahn, but also to the Meråkerbahn, which should have been electrified a long time ago. However, I will mainly take the electronic part of the communication into account in this article. An increasingly important part of a modern society is electronic communications, i.e. ICT. In no area has technological development been as rapid as it is here. It is therefore difficult to make forward-looking and realistic planning in use. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has emphasised the right of digital all-persons to reduce distance disadvantages and to allow all citizens to use public electronic services and promised that the whole country would have access to high-speed networks by 2007. In this context, the draft budget refers to the fact that we currently have a coverage of 99.9 pst. on a fixed and wireless connection. The term ‘high-speed’ is based on a definition in St.melding. No 49 for 2002–2003. This is essentially what is today characterised as a ‘low-speed link’. This is the younger generation in no way satisfied with. There are also not many enterprises that have computer processing related to their business in a completely different location — many of them in time. A recent survey of young people, with questions about their wishes and opportunities to move back to their homes, shows that the most important thing besides jobs is data communications, i.e. broadband. With a good broadband coverage, jobs can also be created, we know that. For me, the possibility of good electronic communications is in line with other communications that we consider a public responsibility. In Finland, a nationwide fibre network is now planned for all households, with a speed of up to 100 Mbit. That's where the government takes the biggest part of the bill. It is therefore disappointing to see how little is invested in this area of the Government. Those who are most affected by this are the districts, i.e., where it's not commercially profitable to expand. It's very amazing that the Center Party is satisfied with this effort, as this may be the biggest obstacle in the future for young people to move back to their homes. This leads to an accelerating centralisation and is a threat to a viable Building Norway. The Ministry of Innovation and Administration is responsible for ICT policy in Norway. Nothing else has such an impact on the rate of innovation as ICT. The Directorate for Administration and ICT was established in 2007. The main task of the Directorate is to develop a better organised, user-oriented and efficient central government, competent managers and employees in the state, a common electronic ID infrastructure in the public sector and, in particular, coordinated use of ICT in the public sector. The Directorate therefore has a key role in the government's ICT policy and has 150 employees. The significance became clear when Nav was to be created, and we saw that several floors had different computer systems that took a very long time to coordinate. With regard to the task of streamlining central government — which is also below the same level — we have had a sharp increase in the number of employees in central government, and then it is difficult to define it as an effective development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1273	When I listen to the opposition here today, I wonder if I'm going to spend my time answering all the claims, but when I read my script, it can actually be a good response, because it has answers to most of it. The only exception is actually climate policy for the Progress Party – it is well known. That one does not take the climate seriously must be the problem of the Progress Party. Next year's government budget is a formidable boost to the area of transport. Only within the road area is added to a growth of 23 pst. compared to the 2009 budget. Strong increases to, among others: investment, operation, maintenance, race protection and road safety make this the best budget ever. It is also a good start in reaching the adopted NTP, but still blackpaints and complaints to the opposition. It is a natural continuation of the election campaign, where the Right and Advance Party compared Norwegian road standards with the roads of Botswana and Albania respectively. In retrospect, it has proved to be comparisons that do not at all keep track of the situation. Maybe we should take them on the floor and add a committee trip to these countries to further check out the claims? I'm glad that the red-green government is paying to build the country instead of spending tens of billions of dollars on tax bills every year. Politics is about wanting, but it's also about choosing. This government will have a society that both creates and distributes in a fair way. This is why we choose to use resources in important welfare areas, such as: infrastructure, school and care. Not least, such a policy contributes to a high level of employment. The opposition has shown that they choose differently, especially when they come near power. In the field of transportation, today's opposition parties were not near the level of allocation of today's red-green government, when they had the power. Of course, it was a result of their priorities, such as: Tax relief over well-being, and the Support Party did little to change this priority. The second mantra to the right is privatisation, and also in the road sector. While we in the Workers' Party, together with our partners in the SV and the Center Party, will spend as much of the taxpayers' money as possible to get the most well-being, the opposition will build ways to draw the credit card. A lot indicates that there is a model that gives less money. In particular, as several road projects are financed in this way, an increasing proportion of the total road budget will be seized. For our part, it's about getting the most rational development possible. That is why this is about how much money you spend in the annual budgets. In addition, the E16 Filefjell, E6 Alta and the new double track Oslo–Ski are on their own records, providing the necessary predictability and certainty for efficient and rational implementation. The conclusion is that we deliver the goods, including in the field of transportation, to next year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1290	When we travel around Norway, we all see with our own eyes how bad the road standard is. We know that good, safe roads prevent accidents and improve the environment. Nevertheless, we see that the new government's NTP and the government's 2010 budget are not being properly prioritised. Take, for example: The route Search in West Agder to Ålgård in Rogaland, the State Council of Kleppa promised to inform Veivesen this year – i.e. now in 2009 – that the route Søgne–Ålgård was to be investigated. We have hope that this is not enough of a promise that is not fulfilled by the Government. We hope that the investigation will not just be carried out – if it is then carried out – because I hope, of course, that the road route will actually be built, and that will be done quickly. I would like to inform the Council of State that 2010 is right around the corner. In the case of NTP, the propulsion party will build the continuous four-field motorway on this route. In our 2010 alternative budget, we have added SEK 1.69 billion to start working. The poor collective offer to and from Aust-Agder makes it almost impossible for estuaries to choose other than buses and private cars when we, for example. I'm going to Oslo, and then I'm going to look away from hacking train patrols that use trains no matter how long it takes. If the collective offer improves, more will also travel collectively. That is why I was lifted up last week by plane in Svolvær, at an airport with a runway of 800 metres. I was lifted in view of the fact that Arendal airport Gullknopf soon has a runway of 1,400 meters, and this private airport could improve the collective offer to and from East Agder. In East Agder, we have a very bad road, and we have a very dangerous route on E18 from Arendal to Tvedestrand, which has not been done at all with the previous four years. The distance is 19 km. There are off-roads every 119 meters, and there are two pedestrian crossings over this road. Nevertheless, after what I can see, there is no deposit of money from the Government, so that we can start investigating, planning and starting to correct this path. The road would be environmentally friendly and traffic safe here as well. We have to get started with this work now. The spade must be placed in the soil as soon as possible, at least no later than 2014. That is why, in its proposals for the transport plan, the Progress Party has allocated money to this route. We've added 42.4 million. kr in our budget for 2010, so that work can begin. It's urgent. We have neither human life nor time to lose. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left said in last year's budget position that we were concerned about the government's lack of commitment to oil protection preparedness. The oil disaster south of Langesund shows that oil protection along the Norwegian coast was too bad, and that the government parties were wrong when they claimed it was in the best order. Nor does it seem that the red-greens have learned from their faults. In the 2010 alternative budget of the Progress Party, we have seen a need to put in 50 million. kr more for oil protection than the Government. Budgetary management clearly shows that there is a large gap between the Progress Party, which will invest in infrastructure and the other parties on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1307	The risk and threat profile of society is broad and complex. Social security work shall safeguard the security of the population and ensure key social functions and values. It is important for us to prevent, so that individual and society are not affected by accidents, crises or disasters. At the same time, undesirable and serious events need to be managed effectively and effectively. In this context, the emergency network is important. Fire services, health services and the police must have a common radio link that meets operational and safety requirements. The replacement of old equipment is necessary to strengthen the capacity of society to respond to organised crime and terrorist threats. That is why it was good that the Bondevik II administration got hold of this matter. The problem was that there was no money for the project. It was only when we got the red-green government that the matter was properly put on the agenda. I think we all in this room agree on the importance of a functional emergency network, and we are impatient about the rate of expansion, which has not been according to the plan. It is serious when the supplier is now two years late, but we expect the emergency network to be put into service during 2010. I could have stopped my post on the emergency network here, but there are two suggestions and a comment from the opposition, which I find reasonable comments. One proposal is from the Progress Party and the Right, where they ask the Government to come to the Stortinget with a separate case about this now. To that end, it is a well-known matter that the Government will make a proposal on nationwide development. It is possible to do so in a separate budgetary matter or in the 2011 budget. In any case, there is in reality no more information to be provided before the evaluation results are available. The evaluation is ongoing and will continue beyond 2010. In this respect, we must expect the Stortinget to receive a report on the general situation of the revised national budget. The most important thing now is to have a full focus on project management. The Progress Party and the Right also have a comment on the costs of the municipalities in this case. They claim that the municipality of Lørenskog gets an increase in the cost of 75 pst. I don't know where they have that number from, but what's right is that concrete measurements of the costs of municipalities are to be carried out before and after the deployment of emergency networks. This will be an issue in the evaluation and pre-measurements have been carried out. These measurements should be waited for before starting to discuss the picture of costs. In addition, it is stated in the 2006 Proposition that the operating costs of municipalities should not be significantly increased. With regard to the proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party that voluntary organisations engaged in rescue operations should be given the opportunity to use the new emergency network, the following is to say: As far as possible, provision should be made for the use of the emergency network by these organisations. In practice, this means that they will have to test and test radios to a limited extent now at the first stage of construction. As I read the opposition proposal, I believe the organisations will be able to use the emergency network for real rescue operations until next year. A large-scale testing and use among voluntary organisations will require much follow-up by the Emergency Communications Directorate. The organisations concerned have no staff with professional competence on radio and IT. A broad deployment of the emergency network by volunteers will require disproportionately much more follow-up by the Directorate in relation to the introduction into emergency situations. It will impose a heavy burden on the directorate that now needs to use its resources for project management and implementation of the first stage of construction. We agree that long-term rescue workers should be included in this, but 2010 is a little too early for the challenges we now face. With regard to the emergency network, I would just like to add that our technology solution has been assessed by the company Gartner, which unequivocally states that Norway has chosen the best solution in the market, and a solution that is largely chosen by the whole of Europe. It was the emergency network. Until now, there has been a lot of sewing and complaining from the opposition in this debate, especially from the Progress Party. It's not so surprising. It's basically the same tune we hear in one debate after another, how miserable everything is, how little it is, and how much more the Progress Party wants. The only thing we haven't heard about now is a lot more to everything, plus the tax code. We haven't heard much about it. So Blackvik says, and that's pretty interesting, that we can't compare and say that this is the lifting of times. He's going to compare it in dollars from earlier. That must be in relation to when the Progress Party had its hand on the budget. Then it really had to be miserable if it's so very miserable now, to say it that way. In any case, the opposition does not assume that this is one of the times' rises in the transport sector. In addition, there is a budget within the framework of what is sound in relation to the capacity that management can handle. It's a sensible and wise bet, which the country can be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1330	Today is a special day for our National Assembly. We shall adopt, a little later in the evening, a budget for 2010, after being set up by the Transport and Communications Committee, a budget which, both in terms of commitment and activity, will mean that next year will be ‘all hour high’ in terms of state investment in the air, on the sea, on the road and on the road. It actually seemed that the representatives have been looking forward to this day. In any case, most people have dressed extra nice. I would like to point out some areas in the budget that, individually, may not be of the greatest importance, but are not less important to it. Maritime infrastructure licences increase monthly. Fishing ports and ferries increase by 50 million. kr. Navigation centres increase by 10 million. kr, and the maritime traffic centres are fortified by 25 million. kr. This will reduce the maintenance run on the navigation installations, and the Government will continue the renewal of equipment at the maritime traffic centres that was launched in the current action package this year. In the next year's budget, there is also a The new vessels will be more efficient and will also be useful in oil protection operations. In addition, the coastal works are reinforced by nearly 15 million. kr. On the fee page, port security charges are now removed and coastal charges are reduced. Overall, this represents a 27-million-billion-billion-billion-billion-lot. kr. Together with new legislation attached to ports and waters, this shows that the Government is serious about the investment in maritime transport. Oil protection permits are in the year 122 million. kr higher than in 2005. This level will be continued next year, and a new competence centre will be established in connection with the traffic centre in Vardø. Towing boat readiness is an important factor in safety along our coast. The budget includes the strengthening of state-owned tugboat equipment in North Norway to three vessels on an annual basis. Together with the day-old tugboat on the South, this means a total cost framework of 127 million. kr. The coastal works shall also develop a plan for the establishment of towing boat preparedness in the West. The Committee on Transport and Communications noted in its budgetary observations that as soon as possible, a sixth gas journey will be inserted into the national ferry service at the Rogaland E39. I am also pleased that the Committee points out that fleet renewals can have a positive employment effect in the shipbuilding and supply industries, and that this will be particularly true in the construction of gas ferries and when R & D contracts can be used. From these maritime-related budgetary issues, I would like to raise a point of view for aviation, which in the 2010 budget is going to get a pledge of 942 million. kr. An investment premium of 50 million will be granted. for security measures at the regional airports of Avinor. The company should not pay the government loan that financed the Gardermoen construction, nor is it required to take dividends from Avinor next year. It will increase the room for action of the company. For the Non-State Airports Notodden and Ski, an investment premium of 12 million has been added. kr. To secure a basis for future operations, there is also an operating surplus of close to 12 million. kr to Stord Airport. For the purchase of air transport, it is proposed to use 629 million. kr. The height is 21 pst. in the aged budget for 2009. This is necessary in order to maintain an efficient and equivalent air transport supply with good standards throughout the country. I have traversed into heaven and sea. Believe me, there is a lot of other important and good things for the land in the budget position that has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1360	In Soria Moria II, the Government states that it will stimulate maritime transport growth, while giving priority to maritime safety and prevention of adverse events. The State oil protection system shall be further strengthened. In the 2010 budget, the Government follows up this. In order to stimulate the transfer of more goods from road to sea, the Government proposes to remove the port security charge and reduce the coastal charge. Overall, this gives a fee of 27 million. kr. At the same time as the Government reduces the tax burden on maritime transport, the allocation to fishing ports and fairway managers is proposed to be increased by 50 million. kr. It will contribute to increased value creation in the fishing industry and safer and more efficient coastal transport. The 2010 budget is also a good budget for maritime safety work. The allocation for navigation installations is proposed to be increased by 10 million. kr. Labelling for fast boat traffic has been a priority task in recent years and will also be so in 2010. In recent years we have had several cases where ships have come into operation along the Norwegian coast. The maritime traffic centres are therefore important for the detection and intervention of ships in difficulty. In the package of measures that came in January, 40 million were granted. kr for the renewal of equipment at the Fedje Maritime Traffic Centre. Next year, we're proposing a further 25 million. kr for the renewal of equipment at the other centres. Since the autumn of 2003, there has been a state towing boat stand in North Norway. For 2010, the Government proposes to strengthen it further to three full-year towing vessels. At the same time, an agreement has already been reached on towing boat preparedness in Sørland. In cooperation with the maritime traffic centres, the towing boat equipment will be able to intervene against ships that have problems, before it develops into an accident with the consequences we know too well. Unfortunately, it has been shown that it is difficult to guard 100 pst. against accidents, even if it must be the objective. In the 2010 budget, the government has therefore continued its strong commitment to oil protection. Therefore, during 2010, we will have fulfilled the Coastal Plant’s 2006 plan for the replacement of oil protection equipment. However, today’s oil protection equipment does not function properly under difficult conditions. I am therefore pleased that in 2010 we will set up a competence centre for maritime safety, oil protection and marine surveillance related to the central maritime traffic centre in Vardø. This centre could contribute to improving the knowledge of oil protection operations under severe climatic conditions. The management of wreckage accounts for the largest increase in the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast for the next year. It's proposed to be set at 106 million. kr to work on the removal of «Murmansk» in Sørvær in Finnmark. This work has started and is expected to be completed in 2011. Furthermore, it's set at 630 million. kr to estimated costs related to the cancellation of U-864 in 2010. Since the cancellation project has a cost framework of more than 500 million. kr, an external quality assurance will now be carried out which will be completed in a short time. On the basis of the external quality assurance, in the new year I will promote a proposition on the further process in the matter. On the basis of the budget presented by the Government, I believe that strengthening maritime transport within a secure framework will have good conditions in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1381	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1384	At the Coastal Works Conference in Svolvær last week, much of the conference was dedicated to the 'Full City' accident and how it was handled. It was concluded that ‘Full City’ was ignored, as there was no reason to believe that the ship was a danger moment. It was also concluded that things could be done better. The zero vision was also a hot topic, and most, including the coast director, thought it was easier to get zero vision on the sea than on the road. I wonder what the Council of State will do to ensure that such accidents as the 'Full City' accident will not occur for the future because ships are being overlooked, and whether the Council itself believes in zero vision for marine casualties. And if she does, why hasn't more money been allocated, so that these goals can be achieved in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1391	We always have to have a measure of zero vision. If we lose that goal, I think we lose a lot. Otherwise, we have now put in place a code that makes one when a ship is in operation and one might not want to spend money related to rescue, have to accept help if it is discovered. Furthermore, perhaps the most important preparedness to avoid accidents is to get the most dangerous traffic far from land. In the north, we've got corridors for it, and the Coast Guard will now send out a proposal that one does the equivalent further south in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1400	Oil protection is important, we can agree on that. But it is also true that in Norway we have had major accidents or major near-accident accidents in the last ten years, almost every year. It's enough to mention "Full City", "Server" and "Rocknes". We know that the rescue company has raised three to four major boats from the baseping and thus the discharge of oil, and we know that tugboats have done the same thing. In Finnmark, a system has been introduced where the fishing fleet is part of the oil protection system. How does the Council of State feel that both the fishing fleet and the rescue company are being implemented as part of oil protection throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1407	In the case of the Rescue Company, they are for all practical purposes part of the total service we have. I had a meeting with the Rescue Company two or three days ago, where we went through the activities they're doing. Of course, we should also discuss it further. As far as the fishing fleet is concerned, I must honestly admit that there is a little doubt about the legislation, so maybe we can get back to it at an appropriate time. But I believe that there are some regulations related to the fishing fleet that are probably not quite in place. I will look at it and think that the proposal can be good. I'd like to come back in a suitable way to brief you about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1415	During the consultation that the Committee had in connection with the budget, we also had consultations with the Rescue Company. We were told that the impressive first-line service of which they are actually an important part. There are many breakdowns and engine crash cases along the coast, and then the skaters are there and can assist. It's to the extent that events that we don't hear so much about, precisely because the skaters are in place and avert accidents and assist until others arrive. Therefore, it is very regrettable that the Government does not grant enough money to the Rescue Company. The amount of money spent by the Government on the Rescue Company leads to two fewer skaters. The right has proposed 20 million. additional NOK to the Rescue Company. Is it true that the Government does not understand the significance of the rescue company's efforts? Or doesn't the Government appreciate that service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1422	I can assure the representative that I very much appreciate the job the Rescue Company is doing. I live by the coast, have parents who have been fishermen, and a father who still is, so the importance of that I can clearly sign on. As I said, I had a meeting with the Rescue Company the other day, where we went through everything that the Rescue Company does. There is no doubt that the government greatly appreciates both the work done by the rescue company, as I said, and the rescue company. The aim of the Government is that the State Framework Grant will assist the company’s efforts in the action-oriented rescue and accident prevention activities in coastal management. The grant shall cover a proportion of the operating costs of the rescue company associated with searches and rescue facilities. We have put forward proposals to allocate 42 million. SEK in grants in 2010. In addition to the funds allocated to the Ministry of Culture and the Church, it compensates for the loss of revenue from slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1431	I want to follow it up with maritime safety. It has been said by the Government that the role of the fishing fleet should be reassessed with regard to the representative of Fredriksen. Then I want to refer to what has happened in Spain. Following the Prestige landing on the north-west coast of Spain, the fishing fleet became part of the coastal protection preparedness in Spain. I understood at the Council of State that she had not concluded this, and my question is: Will a contact be made with Spanish authorities and look at the experience they have had – what was the background, what was the result, and what kind of experience you have in Spain, where the fishing fleet is now both legal and practical?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1438	It is quite obvious that all the good forces that can contribute to strengthening safety at sea are important. As I said in my previous answer, I will definitely look at this matter, related to the role of the fishing fleet. We have other coastal boats in other contexts that also have relatively good towing capacity, not least in the aquaculture industry, which is also located on the coast. I will certainly investigate with those environments that have good experience, and if the Spanish authorities do, it is quite clear that it is one of the areas that I would like to hear more about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1443	My question is about the 'Full City' accident and the lessons and experiences of that accident. My question is whether the government has any plan for stepping up oil protection, after what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1448	It is always wise to take lessons from the events that have occurred, including in the case of Full City. Now it is the case that the Coastal Plant is already evaluating that accident, and will, of course, include it in the further work. One is not yet completely finished with the final clean-up; one has taken a break this winter. Here again: All the good forces that can contribute in terms of both oil protection and coastal safety, I want to have contact to go into and look at this. And the budget being dealt with here today is a good proof that the government is taking this problem very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1455	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1460	I'm going to leave history with blame-sharing and responsibility for Norway having come into a situation where we had a great aftermath on transportation, lying down. But when I've listened to the Special Progress Party's black measurement of the proposal for next year's government budget, I only need to be absolutely satisfied to see that there is a much stronger will and ability and action when it comes to investing in traffic during this period, and in the previous period compared to the many years before. We adopted a very ambitious transport plan here at Stortinget in ours, and this proposal for the 2010 state budget is a good follow-up to it. Those who claim to be far below what should be the frame should read what is in both the transport plan and the setting, i.e. a gradual escalation. Otherwise, I would like to use this opportunity to make a request – or a proposal – to the Council of State. One of our most important transport goals is to improve road safety. It is a very good social economy, as well as of course helping to reduce and prevent many tragedy and suffering. Clearly, a wide range of measures must be put in place in relation to road users, road vehicles and infrastructure, and there is a strong commitment to this year's state budget, a commitment which, through the work of the Committee, has actually increased by 20 million. kr. In that, the 20 million. kr shall be used on, lie at the centre of, and support for Safe Traffic. But I also want to talk about walking and cycling roads, especially when it comes to safe schooling. It's actually an inconsistency that we're expanding our school day to give students more physical activity, while parents often have to run their children to school. Here's not just questions about money. The main challenge is that roads are now at three levels of administration. I would like to encourage the Council of State to take an initiative towards the county and the municipality so that, first of all, all the needs are identified and, secondly, to create a plan to remedy this which should be as mutually binding between these three levels of government as possible, and also a funding plan for it. The second point I want to encourage the Council of State is to follow up what the majority in this Chamber said in the previous period, simply clearly prohibit performance-based wages when it concerns the transport sector. It's not well enough followed. The third, which I believe has a very large economic significance, but which has nothing to do with road safety – it may have something to do with doing the same – is to have a manufacturing and maintenance department brought back to the State Road Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1477	The government has doubled the railway effort compared to the previous government. There's been a huge lift, but there's no need to rest on the laurels. There's been a lot of good posts here about the railway. It is funny that the railway has come on the agenda, so there are several people who are fighting with SV about being railway parties. The Bondevik government built 6 km a year, now it's 12 km. But in the first year of the railway, it was built 50 km of railway every year. The Railway Forum South represents the County municipalities of Vestfold, Telemark, Agder and Rogaland, which are now united to fight for forced railway development in Westfold as a first step on the SouthWest Railway with interconnection between Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen. It will be a rail service that will cover half of Norway's population. In this area, one of the main problems of the railway is that they lose market shares to the car because the motorways are built faster than the railway. It's good when the county rapporteurs notice that, and we should also be concerned about that. Creating a coherent development is important here, and I believe that project financing must also be assessed at that time. In order to achieve sustainable transport, we must at least triple the use of passenger and freight trains. Most of this increase must be at the expense of the use of a car. I've been commuting on the Vestfold track for a few years. You learn to be patient about this, not least in the last days, with up to three hours of travel to Tønsberg. It was a success on TV to follow seven hours of tour with Bergensbanen, but one hour in the dark in the Oslo tunnel is not as exciting. So it's the signalling system. On Friday, 35,000 travellers were delayed. It's clearly the social costs of it's huge, not least the taxi ride home for the NSB, which was more expensive than the monthly card. But there is light in the tunnel, and fortunately the train is not coming. It was not until this year that we got a proper increase in maintenance. The railway system has introduced a new gear. The number of infrastructure errors is actually reduced by 20 pst., sail if it doesn't always work that way. In 2010, tracks and contact lines shall be renewed for more than DKK 1 billion. In addition, almost $0.5 billion comes to the Oslo Tunnel. In the new year, work starts to install a new type of signalling system — axle counter train detection system, as it is called — in the Oslo tunnel. It's a job that's supposed to be done by summer. The system has been in use in Germany, where this has resulted in a 60-80 pst reduction of signal errors. So in Oslo, we have five times as many signal faults as in Germany. The railway system does not promise that all problems will be solved in 2010, but we commuters can be a little more patient when the train is running slowly, when we know that it is due to upgrading and maintenance and not signaling errors, which just gets worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1494	The right-wing parties clearly believe that the liberalisation of Norwegian aviation has not come far enough. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party will now release the competition in Airport Norway, knowing that it will undermine the entire Avinor system. As a result, either the State has to provide significant subsidies or the charges have to be significantly increased at airports that are in deficit, and/or a number of smaller and unprofitable airports simply have to be reduced. In this way, the Progress Party has won forward. They've long wanted to put down unprofitable airports. This policy is now manifested in a proposal to change the concession terms of Moss Airport Smoking, so that the roof of the number of flights is removed, in the noble intention, as they say, to give airports at Rygge and Torp equal conditions of competition – i.e., a counter-fight in a case they lost in ours. As is often the case when competition is elevated to ideology, the result is disastrous. It's bad enough that the Rogge roof has increased to 21,000 flight movements, which equals well over 2 million passengers per year. Ryanair is now moving more and more of its traffic from Torp to Rygge, both because of Rygge's proximity to Oslo and also because Rygge, where the State itself is concessional, is obviously able to offer more favourable conditions than Torp. It can, of course, do so as long as the Air Force covers a large part of the operating costs. When two different aerodromes with different framework conditions are required to compete on equal terms, the result is, of course, given. This is how the free competition of the right-hand parties works. However, I am a little surprised that the representatives of the right-wing parties from Vestfold, Telemark, Buskerud and the Agderfylken go in unreservedly and with open eyes to weaken the operating base of their own airport at Torp. Torp has never been any serious competitor to Gardermoen, but Rygge is there, while Rygge is a competitor of Torp. Torp loses a location between 100000 and 300000 passengers in 2010. It will not stop there if the roof of the Back is now raised. What that might mean for the Gardermo, we can only imagine. Of course, the management in Avinor cannot sit calm and watch that an uninhibited growth in Rygge is conquering an increasingly large part of the foreign market. If this policy were ever to win a majority in this hall, anyone who goes to all airports other than Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger will certainly notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1513	I am proud of the red-green government, which is now contributing to the bet of the times on transportation. This is a budget that will allow us to know the smell of newly created asphalt many places in the country. For transport, in 2010, 27 billion kroner were proposed, a growth of 21 pst. compared to 2009. Through the administrative reform, we have strengthened the appropriations for the new county road network by NOK 1 billion. The total activity growth on the county road network, excluding racial protection funds, thus amounts to a total of 49,5 pst. From the centre party we look forward to the Stortinge adopting the construction of the Hålogalandsbrua. This will give a formidable boost to an entire region. The construction of Hålogalandsbrua will also provide the opportunity to strengthen the provision of air services in the region by bringing air traffic together at Evenes airport and decommissioning the Narvik airport. Better air route provision is of great importance to people and businesses, and is very important for the development of Harstad as an oil centre and for travel life in the region. We also look forward to further efforts in the field of transport in the coming years, so that we can develop the key areas of E6 in Troms, and that we will have the E8 repaired from the national border to Finland and into Tromsø. The Central Party is also pleased that a dialogue has been initiated between the County of Tromsø, the Railway Agency and the Ministry of Transport to carry out the necessary basic assessments to assess the possible development of the railways from Tromsø to Narvik or from Tromsø directly to Sweden, as a contribution to a comprehensive transport investigation for the northern regions. The centre party supports the investigation of any railway connection to Tromsø, and we would point out that it is highly desirable that the process be organised in such a way that the RDA funds allocated to Troms can be used in this work. Such a railway will create optimism, and we believe that special attention must be paid to the needs of fish exports and other freight transport. We would also like to stress that passenger routes and tourism must be included in these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1530	I am pleased that we have a government and a great majority who want everyone to live where they want to, and that there are equivalent living conditions and opportunities to develop throughout the country. In this picture, trafficking is of the highest importance. Without good transport services in all parts of the country, these objectives cannot be achieved, nor can we exploit all the important resources that we are so lucky to have. This is why it is so important that a historical commitment to the movement is now being made in all parts of the country. I record that some politicians and others still just want to count heads and not kilometers when they're talking about spending money on transportation. I also hear that it is claimed that the money for transportation must be spent where people live, i.e. in the central struts and not in the districts. Yes, such attitudes toward the districts are, unfortunately, also seen in the typical districts. In Troms recently, the county council, with great unanimity, dealt with a road map that means a historic commitment to transportation throughout the county. This could be done by the county thanks to the significant increase in the framework of transportation. Following the decision in Troms County, there were very many positive reactions both from the population and from the media in the county, but two central newspapers came up with considerable criticism. The Nordlys national newspaper asked questions about the use of money in areas where there are few people, and the Tromsø city newspaper referred to the decision as ‘billionaires to appendixes’. These are statements and attitudes from the district's spokesman who both disappoint me and upset me. Why are we not looking at value creation, and that cities and countries and parts of countries must work together if resources are to be used and if value creation is to be increased in our country? Fortunately, many politicians, centrally and regionally, have understood this. Let me also express my satisfaction in this connection that the case of rail in the north is now on the agenda. This is an almost 90-year-old case, which is also now an environmental project, and which must now move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1545	The development of roads and other infrastructure is the most important means of creating growth and development in our country. Making the most of well-functioning bus and bus regions is the key to creating economic development and ensuring bus and coaching in all parts of the country. In the north-west, there have been very important developments in the road network in recent years. The opening of the Eiksund Association was a strong vitamin injection for the inhabitants and the business community on the islands of South Sunnmøre. 25,000 inhabitants had a continental connection with Ørsta/Volda. The positive effects of this relationship have been far greater than anyone could dream of, and it seems to me that such a commitment is absolutely necessary. Two days ago the first ointment went on the longest of the tunnels on the Kviv road link again E39 between Nordfjord and Sunnmøre. For me as a former spokesman in Hornindal, this was a great day. Many people are gloating for the work that has been done, and the whole region is looking forward to this connection opening in 2012. Then we will also have the full effect of the Eiksund connection, and we will have a holiday-free Kviv region of nearly 70,000 inhabitants. I'm very pleased that the Right facilitates the bet of time on transportation. I'm proud that the Right Permissions are NOK 1 billion more for road construction than the Government, that it facilitates the construction of several OPS projects, and that one creates a 50 billion road maintenance fund that can cope with road maintenance delays. This means the bet of the times on road construction, and the Right is in the driver's seat. Right will build City Ship Tunnel as a OPS project. This tunnel will be very important for the safety of maritime traffic along the coast, and it will be an important step towards a well-functioning traffic year around the weather-hard city area. Right will start as soon as the plans are ready. We need to facilitate economic development, and then the construction of the 45-minute region between Florø and Måløy is a very exciting project. This is an important part of the coastal road between Bergen and Ålesund. Although this road is a county responsibility, Right wants to spend 200 million. kr of our increased permissions for this project. This means that we can play together with the business organisations and municipalities in the area and get to a spice layer that ensures the implementation of the project when the plans are ready. Right, it's absolutely crucial that we use the coming years to build infrastructure, because there will be other and bigger challenges when the waves of the elderly come in ten years. It's business that creates the revenue that the public benefits from well-being. We never have to forget that. Therefore, the Right will place maximum effort on road construction now. When we increase the permits for road construction by NOK 1 billion, start up two to three OPS projects a year and set at NOK 50 billion to road maintenance funds, keep right-wing promises from the election campaign and facilitate the bet of time on traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1562	As a professional driver for over twenty years – on narrow, swinging and rascal roads in Lofoten and around the country – I think I have a certain background to contribute to this debate. In addition, as rapporteur, I have worked a lot on transportation. The 2010 budget proposal is at a historically high level, with an increase of 21 pst. compared to the balance of the budget. Even it doesn't make an impression on the Progress Party. I interpret it this way that it must be a mere spinal reflex that strikes when the Progress Party is criticising the draft budget. How does this budget turn out to be for the northerner? Very good, I'd say. First of all, I am very pleased that the ferry link over the Westfjord, Bodø-Værøy-Røst-Moskenes and Bognes-Lødingen, is to be published in tender with requirements for gas ferries. The E10 in West Lofoot has been one of the most raging areas in the country. In 2007, a 1.7 km long tunnel opened at E10, Fjøsdalen. The rest of the race-perceived route has been completed and a total of 15 million has been proposed. kr for design for plant start-up in 2011. Even I've been there by bus, with race on all sides, and I'm very happy that this stretch is now priority. Two points on E6 at Sandnesbotn in the municipality of Hamarøy are also priority points. In addition, the repair of the E6 is continued at Majavatn in the municipality of Grane. The route is expected to be open to traffic in 2010. A number of other measures are continued, including: E6 on the Inland Sea and Rehabilitation of rv. 85 Kjöringen-Lødingen. Several road projects in Nordland, such as the E6 Fauske–Nordkjosbotn, have also been allocated to projects. 80 Røvika-Strømsnes and Løding-Vikan, which is part of the Roadpack Salt Phase 2. In the case of ports and fairways in the Nordic region, a total of 10 million is proposed. kr for the completion of the improvement of the fairway of the entrance to the Svolvær west port. Work on the restoration of Stamsund port has started. The planned work will be completed in 2011. Subsidies are also granted for two fishing ports in Northern Ireland. These projects and a number of other good projects make this budget a good transport budget for road users and seafarers, and not least for businesses in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1581	In the election campaign and in the treatment of the National Transport Plan, government parties created high expectations in the transport sector. On that basis, large road projects were started, including in my home state of Sogn and Fjordane. Then came the state budget, and then it turned out that the election campaign promises about means of transportation were not fulfilled. It is then time to ask the Minister of Transport and the Government Party when they intend to follow up the promises of the National Transport Plan. Do we want to see a lift in 2011 and 2012? Or will the Government wait until 2013 to fulfill some of its promises in the National Transport Plan, thus buying votes to win the 2013 elections? In order to give priority to county and local politicians, it is important that the promises made in the long-term plans are followed up by the Government. Unfortunately, in my opinion, a mistake has been made in my home country. An expensive wedding project, which was the heartchild of former Minister of Commerce Navarsete, was prioritised by the plurality. When the promised funds did not come, this would result in a disaster for the social sector in Sogn and the Fjords for a long time to come. This applies both to the necessary initial investment to create growth and development along the coast, as well as to important tourist roads, and not least to road maintenance. The majority of the county councils in Sogn and Fjordane have suggested that some road sections have to be financed, and they also took 80 million. kr from badly needed maintenance funds to finance the investments. The funds that were allowed for maintenance were calculated from the road office side to keep the road standard at today's level. Thus, it is not possible to repeat any of the maintenance tasks. On the contrary, the road standard in Sogn and Fjordane will be far worse in the future. This is probably a situation that not only has negative consequences for Sogn and Fjordane, but will also be around the situation in most countries. I can promise that in the Progress Party, we will follow the developments in the road to the Red-Green Government, and we will use every opportunity to remind the government parties of what they have promised, and of the lack of follow-up to these promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1602	When we heard earlier here today the representative Hareide from the Christian People's Party, one would believe that he has not been near neither the Bondevik I- nor the Bondevik II-government, for such a grievances as to the government's commitment to commerce, and as far as the rest of the opposition is concerned, there is no case for that. I have been on the Transport Committee for a few years – and I must remind you that neither Bondevik I nor Bondevik II were able to follow up their own national transport plan. The slowdown was increasing, and the weather in the transport sector was even worse. What they were most concerned about was giving tax credits to those who have the most from before. That's what you were concerned about, not by investing in transportation, not by investing in municipal economy – and that's how I could still have. What we did was we added to the previous one -- to remind you about it -- by $2 billion in 2005. That was what my good colleague, Jan Sahl, from Nordland – who was a representative of the previous period – called air billions. Those air billions were very good to have, but now you're not talking about air billions, even though there are even more air billions in some of the opposition parties. There has been an incredibly strong growth in road investment, and not least in railway operations. There is a formidable increase in racial protection, and there has also been a dramatic increase in ports, fairways and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs budget. Now you have to get to that recognition soon, and go in and read what it says about what this government has done and will continue to do in the transport sector. I think you have a right to take it in, and you might say that you fail, and you might want to do other things, if you ever get to power. There's also been a big bet in the north. It's been said before. There has been investment on the Nordlandsbanen and there has been investment on Ofotbanen. Bit by bit, bit by bit, bit by bit added to my own counties, and there's a big contribution on the transport side that's incredibly important for the settlement – not least for the business that we have and that's to be developed in the future. I could have mentioned the project on the project, but I see the time running out. But we have another project that we will deal with later this evening, called the Helgeland Phase 1 road package – with, among other things. The Tower Tunnel. We're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1615	The President feels pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1618	I am pleased that the Right has chosen to focus on road safety both in its programme for this majority period, through the election campaign and now also in the budget under consideration today. It is easy to agree across-the-board that road safety is important, but it is somewhat more demanding to allocate resources to this area in the fight for funds for new projects and maintenance. Traffic-killed and traffic-damaged is, of course, a heavy burden for those concerned, for their families, friends and communities, but it is also a burden for society in terms of high costs. From my home country of Rogaland, there is especially one road safety measure that I want to highlight. Lighting on the line between the border of the county of West Agder and up to Ålgård. Today there is continuous lighting along the E39 from Oslo to Flikka north of Flekkefjord. The road service in the South region has been given emergency aid for lighting from Flikka up to the county border with Rogaland, so that now only a distance of approx. 80 km without lights between Oslo and Stavanger. The cost of lighting on this route is estimated to be approximately 58 million. kr, but unfortunately the Government has not provided funds for this in 2010. The Road Administration has had a project team to assess different road safety measures, and these concluded that the project where society would get the most road safety again per year. invested krone in Rogaland, would be to light up just this distance. The right has earmarked funds for this in its budget, but, as I said, the government has not found room for the same. I'm sorry. Lighting along this route will lead to increased road safety, which is an undeniable fact. There is a lot of traffic in this area of E39, not least this heavy transport. After the new freight terminal came to Gandal, heavy traffic has, among other things, with goods back to Kristiansand increased sharply along the road. This road section has some curves, and extends through some unoccupied areas with high mountains and valleys. Driving after the dawn of darkness can be quite demanding, and unfortunately there have also been some accidents on this route. The number of excursions and meeting accidents will likely be reduced if the route is illuminated. This is an important and appropriate measure to improve road safety along the E39 in Rogaland, and I would like to encourage the Minister of Transport and the Red-Green parties to prioritise this at the next crossroads – namely in the revised budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1637	Security is a fundamental need for all of us. In different contexts, both safety and safety are tested. I guess it's all about a day like this when the helicopters hover over our heads and there's the police with the machine gun on every corner of the street. Some feel secure – others are insecure. The sense of safety on the roads is another aspect of safety. Most people feel reasonably safe when driving in their car to and from work, leisure activities, etc. – Even though it is in our back of our mind that there are tolls on the road that both run too fast, take dangerous passes or run in a drug-induced condition. There is a special danger in many of our road sections that daily weaken the sense of security and the quality of life of people, and that is the race hazard. Rv. 70, the main road through the Uppälsstrand in Sunndal, has been a very racially dangerous route for all years. The stretch is heavily crowded, and daily hundreds commute to work and school. In fact, during the last year, there have been three large boulders in the Beach of Retirement. And it's a wonder that there hasn't been any life. Many believe that we have had angelic action. The road has been closed for shorter and longer periods, in fact almost three months. It's now column driving in the fifth month. And when the closer range is 16 miles, it says to itself that this is a demanding situation. As former rapporteur in Sunndal, I am therefore eternally grateful that the Government has shown such a great responsibility and said that it will come to a tunnel in the Uppälsstrand as soon as the plan is completed. There is money set aside for both the planning and start-up of tunnel construction in 2010. In addition, money has been granted for boat sheds past the rascal distance until the tunnel is in place. There is great security for all parents who have been bedridden by nightstands that the school bus will be taken by race and port at the bottom of the Sunndalsfjord. Now the parents and the kids get rid of this load. The sense of security and the quality of life of the population in Northern Ireland have been significantly strengthened thanks to the government's power of action. I am so very happy that we have a government that takes racial protection seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1656	I want to use my three minutes to talk about the coast and the possibilities. One of the best days I've ever had in my life in the middle of my life was when the then Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen was in Ålesund and presented the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The Minister for Fisheries then told of the historic effort on the coast with an increase in the lines within this field of nearly 80 pst. relative to the previous NTP. In particular, I liked the right of the tribal route from the Kirkenes to the Swedish border, of the ten central ports to be extended to 31 tribal ports, on the road network along the coast to be connected up to the tribal ports and the tribal route. This is a music for someone who thinks about the environment and who has set the possibilities for the maintenance-free rv. 1 – an easy route along our coast. If we mean anything with the good talk about goods from road to sea, we now have to show it in practical action and follow up the NTP in this area. We know it's going to work. 1000 heavy running gear through the Gudbrand valley every day. Most of these heavy goods vehicles are contaminants which are to enter Oslo, Alnabru and further down to the continent. When we then know that a modern container ship can take up to 200 containers, we see quickly that not many such ships will notice it will notice the traffic through the Gudbrand valley and on the traffic-tight road towards Oslo. If we want something about our environmental effort, we need to make use of all the possibilities that exist. Goods from the road to the sea are one of these possibilities – a possibility that will give rise to major impacts in terms of emissions and traffic safety. Just think about how much more people would be on our roads if most of the vehicle trains were gone. In this context, there are, above all, measures that are justified with certainty in relation to off-road areas, which are mentioned in the NTP. In this context, I am very pleased that the City Ship Tunnel is part of the National Transport Plan. The city is one of the most dangerous seas in Europe, and the tunnel will remove one of the worst barriers we have along the coast. Increased safety, greater safety and reduced waiting times are important both for well boats, container ships, cargo ships, fishing boats, tourist ships and not least for high-speed craft passing twice a day. In that context, I'll quote the fast-tracked Arne Gran Erntsen: ‘City Skipstunnel will, as I see it, place tourist magnets such as Lightfjord, Hardangerfjord, Sognefjord, Geirangerfjord, Lofoten with Trollfjord and even the North Cape plateau in the shadow.’ Better marketing can hardly be given for a new travel concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1676	As the rest of the Storting is aware, we have just been through a big shot and a election campaign where there were many promises. Not least also in my county, Akershus, there were a number of promises to repair the central road sections. One of these sections, which have also been part of many election campaigns in the past, is Rv. 22, the so-called Faetwegen. In the election campaign, there was a larger public meeting at the Østersund Academy in Fetsund where all parties – except SV – I think – promised to work now to get back into place Glomma crossover. So it's after a choice of time to start evaluating what the parties are doing with the promises they made in the election campaign. The progress party has long said that we want to work to figure out a trajectory in terms of Glomma-crossing. There are relatively small resources to enable such an analysis to be carried out. That is why we have followed up our promise and made a note in this budgetary position, asking for the possible alternatives to having a satisfactory Glomma crossover. I have also registered that when the head of this committee responsible for the debate tonight, Knut Arild Hareide, was elected to the Stortinget from Akershus, he went out clearly and told the Romanesque magazine on 1 October 2009 that he would ‘work for Fetwegen’. It goes on to say: ‘I will look at the government in the cards and take care of the progress of new Route 22, promise the new Chairman of the Committee in what was formerly under the name of the Committee on Transport.’ When you don't follow the election vows you come with, it's clear that you're left with little credibility in the local population, which year after year has struggled to get some information about your distance into government documents. Now the time has come to start delivering because we are now at the beginning of this four-year period. If we're going to do something about Glomma-crossing, and put it in place during this period and into the next national transport plan, the batches must start now. There are good comments to be made by the parties in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1693	In June, the Stortinget adopted an ambitious national transport plan for the next 10 years, which is now being followed up in the 2010 budget. With this, we will do well to meet the transport policy objectives – to start up and implement many small and large-scale projects in road, rail, ports and fairways. In my home state of Eastfold, they now have a new brand day, namely March 13th, when they finally achieved further development of the double-track railway through Moss into the first part of the NTP period. The main plan has been adopted and detailed planning is under way, initially financed by 25 million. kr in gunning from Østfold County and Moss Municipality. We are looking forward to this project being followed up in future budgets, and that we will also move on with the planning of the double track right up to the Swedish border. Climate challenges have had their main focus in the previous ageing period, and will have it in it as well. The transport sector is a significant source of emissions of greenhouse gases and other emissions. Contributing to sustainable, efficient and safe transport is therefore a fundamental objective of transport policy. Increased rail deployment in response to climate and transport challenges, and as an important premise for societal development, is one of the strategies of the national transport plan that is now being followed up in the budget. It's a proper and important grip. After years of depriving the maintenance of the network, there is a great need for increased efforts in this area. With the problems that are and have been on the railways, especially in the East, this has had first priority in recent years and will also have it in the future. But it takes time for us to notice the results, says the Railway Agency. People must be able to trust that the train is coming and going when it needs to. It doesn't do it today, and people choose other solutions. In order to ensure the competitiveness of the rail system in the future, it is important to improve operational stability from 2010. All over Europe, there is an offensive commitment to the development of the rail network and high-speed solutions. This will move the transport of goods and persons from aircraft and road to rail and contribute to more efficient, safe and sustainable transport. Norway is the country with the largest share of domestic air traffic compared to other European countries. The reason is, among other things, that we don't have alternatives that give almost the same travel time as with airplanes. High-speed rails may be such an alternative. The government launched several high-speed rail investigations in the previous period and has had a broad and good process. This work has been politically supported and driven by the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party. It is therefore gratifying to follow up the work of the Committee in setting up the budget, and to use considerable resources to follow up the NTP Decision on the investigation of high-speed lines with construction as an objective, up to the next roll-out of the national transport plan. I am happy to follow that work further. The Government has also followed up the NTP Decision on project financing for three projects, one on the railways and two on the road. It will give these projects a predictable and coherent development, which is important in order to implement larger projects more effectively, as we have promised in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1708	Several speakers from the Red-Greens have put forward the Bondevik II government's policy and the absolutely necessary fiscal policy towards business towards investing in transport. Let me remind you that one of the most important measures this government took was to remove the investment tax on business. It was a great cost and a great burden for our budgets, but it was absolutely necessary. So it contributed to an innovation in the business world that was absolutely amazing. I want to go so far as to say that that promise may have contributed to financing the opportunities that this government has had to spend more money than any other government has had. So it's going to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. So it's said that this is a big bet and a change of pace. Yes, in dollars and cents, we've never had such big budgets, but the level of funding is not the same as the results. I remember that there are reports from the departments themselves saying that we don't get more kilometers of road, that we have poorer maintenance on the roads, most recently the Riksrevision report that it's actually going the wrong way. So we can't measure only in heads and ears – we also have to measure in terms of results and what we get back for the money. But the most serious thing is that you are not willing to apply new solutions – modern solutions that all the other countries with which we naturally compare use. So this government has an ideological barrier that we have chosen to call 'private allergy' to put words on it. I think it actually hits pretty well. So the representative of the Ruits of the South says that the OPS actually gives us less money. I wonder if he'll bring so many people to South Africa, after what we experienced in the realisation of the OPS project E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand. There was a cheering song from end to end for three years when we saw what was happening down there. I will spend the last half minute of my speaking time with the Council of State Berg-Hansen. This is a very special project that has actually fallen a little between two chairs, namely Fosnav fishing port in Møre and Romsdal. What has happened there is that because the committee promised another project last year, it has been chosen to give priority to this. I hope to get an answer to that during the debate, that this will not happen, and that you keep in touch with the project, for what has happened, was never the intention of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1721	I note that in the debate today there are many who have mentioned the word «climate». I recorded that the American President did not mention the word «climate» once in his speech, but he mentioned the word «change» several times, and that is exactly what the Progress Party wants. We want change, we want change. We want a real commitment to transportation in this country in 2010 and not the small steps with 12 km of highway and 9 km of middle. It's not change. That's about the same thing as today. To the representative of the Ruits, I just want to say that I don't think Albania is the place to go, because they're far ahead of us. I might want to travel to a country that we can compare to, and that also thinks they're actually going to build a highway or other type of infrastructure. And to those who are concerned with the climate, and that it is important for Europe, I think it's okay to take it into account that in Europe, the motorways and roads that never before have to be built, despite the fact that they also have to solve the challenges they face in terms of climate. I am convinced that technological solutions in the future will ensure that we meet the challenges of climate change. Then we have to have roads that allow other types of cars – zero-emission cars – to emerge. Then I have to go back to traffic safety and the representative Bratli. She cannot have read the position that we have to deal with today, because if there are any who are specific and clear about road safety measures, it is the Progress Party. Unfortunately, the political majority chooses to vote it down. That's too bad. It is a pity not to be involved in evaluating driver training and to increase as soon as possible the commitment to supervision of driver training in order to improve quality. It's about road safety. It's about prevention. The government will not be asked to intensify efforts at awareness campaigns with the aim of increasing safe behaviour. It's about mind-creating work. This has been proposed by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The Progress Party wholeheartedly supports this. The same applies to school transport. The government will not ensure that all children have a place to sit when going to and from school. I think it's sad, and I think it's tragic that you don't want to be part of it. It's about road safety, and it's going to be part of the Progress Party. The Progress Party has proposed this. Unfortunately, it seems that the majority will vote against it today. In the last part of my post, I have to go back to the regional reform – or the regional scandal, as I would call it, because that's actually what it is. The councils were in the line change instead very concerned that they had got so much. You would get NOK 2 billion as a loan withdrawal. You'd get an extra $1 billion. Telemark County is thus receiving 220 million in 2010. to ensure that the road network is upgraded. It's a lag of 2.2 billion kroner – ten times as much. So the next ten years, you can't use a single penny to clean up the debt that's going to happen in ten years. We have to take the maturity that's already been, and so it won't be a new meter away or other upgrades. I would have liked to have said something about the emergency network, but we will have to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1736	I have a few points now out in the debate. One applies to travel. It's interesting to travel, but if we're going to benefit from looking at the road sector, it's actually enough to travel to Sweden. They don't have any oil money. They don't have tolls either. But they have a far, far better road network than Norway has. The advance party calls the lightning train an air lock. We are not alone in this: ‘Lyn train with two and a half hours travel time between Oslo and Trondheim is an air lock.’ So it is the County rapporteur, Tore Sandvik, in the South-Trøndelag – I think he represents the Workers' Party – who clearly expresses it. Then to the representative of Gullvåg, about airports. The representative of Gullvåg and the Workers' Party are concerned about the airports and the airport economy. At the same time, however, the Workers' Party and the Gullvåg representative prefer that most people fly as much as possible. In addition, they will build an extra-fast train to avoid air traffic, so that the concern for the airport economy at best is a letter from the representative of Gullvåg and the Workers' Party. Bendiks H. Arnesen and others talk about games that count heads and not kilometers. There must be a wrong accusation if it is directed towards the Progress Party. Those who read the budget see that we are betting on roads, ferries and racial protection all over the country. To Lillian Hansen, who speaks of it as a spinal reflex when the Progress Party criticises this brilliant budget. We criticize it because it is a huge need and because the coverage is bad. The gap between transport needs and standards on the transport network is increasing instead of decreasing. Something quite different, but equally quite serious and topical at the end. This applies to the tribal route over the mountain. The start-up of the winter season 2009–2010 has been marked by many closed roads. In addition, the Racism at the Austmannali Tunnel on E134 arrives on 20 November. The road is still closed. As a regrettable and strange incident, rv is shut down. 7 over the Hardanger range because the breakage cars have communication equipment that does not communicate. I could add that rv. 7 For the Hardanger range is sealed in the Christmas weekend. We want the high mountain connections to be kept open. We want them to be better racially secure. And we want a winter drift that gives users safe transport and safe information even in bad weather. We want clear targets for uptime and driving conditions, and we want a clearer measurement of what Statens Vegvesen actually delivers in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1758	It is well known that instead of dealing with today’s budget, it is largely related to what happened five–six–seven–eight years ago. It's tragic, because it might not be the internal medicine we're dealing with today when we discuss the state budget in this room, which is ultimately important, that's actually what's going on, and which will be the result of the state budget out there. I want to challenge the government that we have approx. 250 killed in traffic every year. We have 1,000 people who are badly injured and crippled in traffic every year. If we take this from a 20-year perspective, we're talking about 5,000 dead, and we're talking about 20,000 hard damage. The government's proposal to build middle parts is 9 km, and then you can stand on this pulpit and say that this is an offensive bet! Unfortunately, it is not. It is strange that interaction and prevention should only be thought of in the area of health and care. Here the government lacks a large dimension by thinking that these things are actually interrelated and cross-sectoral. Finally, regarding the coast road in Finnmark: so 25 pst. the population has moved in 20 years. I have to say that if the tailor economists are to be allowed to determine the further development of Finnmark related to the coastal road, it will come into place once the entire population has moved. At the same time, workers' party politicians from Finnmark claim that we have to wait for our trip. We have patience in Finnmark. The Coastal Route was planned in 1939!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1767	Today, the Nobel Peace Prize has just been distributed to Obama, and the climate summit is going on in Copenhagen. One of the things Obama drew out in his Nobel Prize lecture was the climate challenges. I do not know why Hoksrud did not bring this with him, because he sat far away from the speaker, or that he – as usual – is not particularly interested in the climate. Obama said that climate change could cause conflict in the future, and that it must be our shared responsibility and aim to find a solution to this challenge. Transport accounts for one-half of the emissions in our society. It's emissions that we can do something with. One of the main challenges to get rid of the emissions from the transport sector is precisely the Party of Progress. That party is the biggest threat to climate action in the transport sector. The emissions from transport are not just big, they are actually the ones that are increasing the most. And it's in the cities that we can really get a real reduction in CO2 emissions from transport. In urban areas, CO2 emissions are often 50 pst. the total emissions. Oslo is not only the largest, but also the nucleus of an even larger area, with a total of 1.5 million inhabitants, where we have large emissions. So one of the most important things is what's happening, or not happening, here in Oslo. And here is the Progress Party with the City Council for Environment and Transport, a city council that clearly believes that road development is the solution, and that shows little willingness to bet on measures that can limit car traffic. The reward scheme for public transport is part of the national transport plan. The money from there can help Oslo achieve the objectives of reducing climate emissions from the transport sector. That's why we're a lot of people at Stortinget who are disappointed that the City Council has done nothing more to get rewards to Oslo. It is disappointing that the Progress Party is more concerned with political games than with acting for Oslo. City Council Kallmyr complains that Oslo does not get enough money from the reward scheme, but refuses to engage in dialogue about it. Car traffic is given priority in front of the walk and bus. There is a constant lack of willingness on the part of the Progress Party to give buses and walk more space in the city streets, and today the city council also refuses to give the buses more space on the way out and into the city. Instead, he makes promises about what can happen – and how quickly the buses can go in 20 years. The Progress Party is a major threat to climate work, both in Oslo and here in this House, and on this very issue, the Progress Party in Oslo is not just a party with bad ideas and little power, but a dangerous reality for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1786	Everyone has one or more roads, but I guess no one is doing as much for theirs as the Progress Party. We also dare to prioritize between rail and road when required. That is why I am pleased that the Advance Party wants to give a lot of money to E6, such as. goes through Hedmark. There are probably so many accidents, both with death and with serious damage. These are numbers that we have to do something about -- not least quickly. Human suffering is high, and social accounts show that expanding the road is a good cost-benefit. Also for business, which depends on the quick and reasonable delivery of the goods, E6 is very important. Today the goods are no longer in stock, as before, but now the truck is in stock. In the case of E6, it also goes through many sites and is also the main road between Oslo and Trondheim. In the case of these two cities, Rv is also going to be Rv. 3 more and more important. It has improved since a majority of 40 million in the spring of 2005 in the context of the review of the revised national budget. kr extra, as well as that the Road Service also contributed a few million. For the Progress Party, transport policy is good district policy. If people are to live in the districts, the roads must be good and not least safe. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to continue its efforts. 3/25 is one of the many sections that we want to prioritize. That's why the Progress Party wants to spend 84.7 million. kr to the route Kolomoen-Ulsberg, therefore the Progress Party wishes to use 42,4 million. kr on Åsta bru and 4,2 mill. kr on Søndre Bjorå Bru, just to create better roads and contribute to a better district policy and not least to living settlements. Nor can a progress party politician from Hedmark avoid mentioning rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox This will have to be completed as soon as possible. The line Kongsvinger-Sweden must be quadrupled, as the Progress Party will. This is of the utmost importance for this region. It's free capacity, both human and material. We have the money, so it's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1799	I thought I would particularly touch on two issues, and make the Minister of Transport aware of something mentioned in the budgetary position of the parties Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right. It is the route E18 Retvedt–Winterbro – in a state that is not my original, Akershus. But this is the distance that doesn't have a clear plant rhinestone, and that might possibly affect a small view from a former central party council. The more important it is to clarify what is going on at the trasé location, and to start financing as well as development. It is a stage that lacks clarification on that route on E18 Stockholm-Oslo. So to the representative of Gullvåg, who gets hurt by competition, as I hear his posts. The weird thing about the representative's posts is that he likes competition, but it's only in the case of Sandefjord Airport Torp. With Moss Airport Rygge, the competition is something he gets hurt by, if this competition continues, as he says. In other words, I perceive that the representative Gullvåg is against Moss Airport, and that it will be the bourgeois parties from the eastern fold bench who are responsible for keeping this case warm all the time. Then I think it's important not to forget the story about Moss Airport Rygge, because the Bondevik II government gave the concession, but it didn't thank you. The airport was supposed to report both airport movements and passenger numbers, but the roof came from the Stoltenberg II government, in the form of 15,000 air movements – which became quite a lot of movement around, mildly said. It was approaching a campaign, and the government of Stoltenberg raised the ceiling that was introduced in the previous period to 21,000 flight movements. The representative of Gullvåg says that Moss Airport Rygge and Sandefjord Airport Torp must not have the same competitive conditions, at least when Moss Airport Rygge, as the representative says, competes with Gardermoen. I think that's wrong. You compete with the Gardermo, yes, but in addition you compete with the third runway that some people dream about on the Gardermo. Perhaps that is where the representative of Gullvåg wants the new initiative to come. The right, and also the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, are concerned that airports should have the same conditions and competitive conditions as the rest of the country. We must not forget that the starting point for the location of Moss Airport Back, and the concession, was that in that county, it had decidated the longest way to all of the airports throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1812	I'm going to talk about public transport in the districts, about some regimes that need to be coordinated and some nuts and laws that need to be broken. I talk a lot based on experience from Uppland as a state politician. A district Norway as one-sided rates on a private car, has no future, partly because many of us do not have access to a private car or drive a private car, and partly because more and more of us do not want to have a daily life where one depends on a private car. Therefore, it is good that the State budget itself has a commitment to public transport in the districts and coordination of order transport and the TT service. However, SV believes that organisational and perhaps legal cleanup is not the least needed. Time is overdue in terms of coordinating publicly paid transports such as school pillows, TT driving, sick and patient transport, service and ordering routes, as well as the Post, for that matter. Many have tried to do something about this, but still most municipalities, county councils, Nav and hospital companies operate in their separate worlds as buyers of transport services. Similarly, there is not a ‘navigable’ relationship exactly, either organisationally or legally, between the different modes of transport boat-bus-turquoise. SV believes that something needs to be done here in a situation where everyone is losing. I choose to believe that everything officially coordinated up to a common transport needs package will be cheaper and better. I also choose to believe that the transport industry, i.e. bus, coach and taxi, are served by public representation as a single unit. It is confusing to have to deal with three to five different public actors, each with its specificities in terms of both quality and cost perceptions, and all with unprofessional short tendering periods. I am also convinced that the user is well served that public transport will have a kind of one-door solution. Why should school students, patients, TT users and residents in the same community have to deal with different providers? And perhaps most important and most precarious for many district municipalities today: in today's system, no one is responsible for the whole. Once the public is in place, there is usually a small residual pot, i.e. the local private transport demand. If the local taxi company has failed to obtain any of the public service, this company can hardly survive on this margin, which is usually only 5-10 pst. of the total journey. Today, no one is required to take responsibility for the maintenance of this offer, and it is serious. We know that the problem is registered with the government. I understand the refusal to address such a complex area. But there will be no offensive collective effort in the districts until this clearing is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1829	This is a good transport budget. After listening to the debate today, a few impressions of something quite different. In fact, the government started a reversal of transport policy when it took over in 2005. The period as a whole shows that the Government has fulfilled what was underlying in NTP – yes, not only fulfilled but overfilled it. It hasn't happened before, and we keep betting on transportation. The commotion from the opposition amazes me. There's no way. And that position is met when one asks why the opposition didn't do more even when it was in position, the answer is, you have so much more money than we had. Yes, there is more money to spend – on everything, also on increased expenses. I think it's awkward to listen to. For more than 20 years I have heard the rapporteur, Knut Hölien, from Vang i Valdres, stand at annual meetings in Oppland Centerparti and talk about E16. It was therefore almost as if someone felt like Christmas on the day of February one could tell Knut that E16 is now getting started. Not only that, but Filefjell was also put in the budget as his own entry and is thus one of three projects financed by the project. E16 is a great victory that is realized only because we have a red-green government and a strong government council. Not only is Filefjell inside at its own post, but there are also funds for start-up at E16 Fønhus–Bagn–Bjørgo further south as well as racial protection. For me, the E16 has become a symbol of what kind of transport policy the government is leading. We need safe transport routes all over the country. We have to connect the country. This principle is also the basis of the new national transport plan. Therefore, the E16 is not just a matter for Valdres, but a matter that provides a winter safe road between Oslo and Bergen, not least for the food transport. It is time, several decades after it was decided in this room that E16 would be the tribal road between Oslo and Bergen. Then we know that Rome was not built in one day. Several decades of neglect costs money and takes time, whether it's road or track. The Oslo train tunnel is a very good example of what happens if one does not fit to maintain. The dome path is a little less known example, but there's so the rails slip out into the swings, so you have to run at a much lower speed than a shell. This does not help to link Norway in a good way. There are actions going on in the Oslo Tunnel, and there is money allocated to the Dovreban. The budget is good, and the budget is well equipped. I think we should enjoy it. And then we're going to focus on the fact that we still have big problems ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1846	I've been thinking about the railway, again, and especially about the new double track Oslo–Ski. This has been an extremely important matter in Follo for many years. In fact, it is so important that all municipalities and county councils have had it as their top priority. I must say that that day Regeringa, by Jens, Kristin and Liv Signe, was on the train to Ski and said that now it will be built, it was a historic and happy day for Follo, but also for Oslo and indeed for the whole country. And in June, when the Stortinge manages the National Transport Plan, it was agreed, as the largest project in the National Transport Plan with project funding. That there's a broad deal about the double track is clear. There's a lot of reports on this, and experts say it. If there's any place where it's really profitable with double tracks, it's in Follo, says a report. Another report says that we cannot connect to Europe without the double track between Oslo and Ski. It's also the road from Europe to the rest of the country, especially if we're going to run goods on the track. We also know that effective and environmentally friendly public transport takes place where there is the largest population, and where many people travel at the same time. Nearly a quarter of the population in the country is gathered in Oslo and Akershus. We know that the capacity of the rail network in the east is detonated. Large quantities of passenger and freight transport that could have gone by road have to go by road. New double tracks will contribute to long-term climate preparedness, and this is a first step towards modern rail connections to the continent. There is also a strong political agreement now that the double-track should be built. I have to say that I am very happy about it, but I still have to remind the Storting that during the Bondevik II administration there was no lift a finger for double tracks Oslo-Ski. I was the chairman of Ski in that period. We were and lobbied, we were in the Ministry of Transport, we asked for a few million, so at least it went to start planning, but it wasn't about that. The left is talking very warmly about double tracks Oslo–Ski, and I want to remind them that they actually had the Minister of Transport in that period. It was such that there had to be a red-green government. According to the opposition, they are agreed, but they try to complain a little bit and sutra – only one gets OPS, it will make it much better. I say this: In spite of everything, when they couldn't do anything on their own, I'm glad that they're on the track now, and that they're on the same track now. But as I said, there had to be another red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1860	Transport and communication are central to developing the whole country, but also to developing links with our neighbours. I note that before our new finance minister has signalled tougher budgetary frameworks in the future, this government is behind its own objectives in the NTP. Therefore, my advice is to use OPS and competitive outsourcing to get more transportation out of each krona. Expectations are high. For my county, I can only mention projects as double tracks to Hamar, the rapid expansion of the four-field highway for E6, the continuous expansion of a narrow four-field rv. 2 to King Wings, and there are several, which in themselves also the representative Bredwold was in. Transportation is very central to the development of the county. The structure that we have on today's journey is not sustainable for growth. I record that project funding never became more than what the Prime Minister said earlier, that we are funding the projects, but there are actually too few of them. The reason why I wanted to take the floor today is that I am quite concerned that Norway is not moving into the central international development years in terms of high-speed rails and transport. High speed between the major Norwegian cities mentioned Kernli in a previous post today. But it might also be an advantage to get out of the country. Nordic triangle – the Oslo–Stockholm–København link – should in this way be central to Norway. Our exclusion from the EU is, in this context, quite demanding. If we're not busy connecting to the rest of Europe, I don't think Europe is so much concerned about it. I've been to a couple of conferences in that context and I've seen the Eastern-West Map shrink. In the north-south, there's almost nothing happening when you talk about travel distances. There would be significant growth impulses to the whole of southeastern Norway if we got a completely different connection to Stockholm. So I read about the train connection to Tromsø, while a red-green bastion that South Hedmark can't even put a Nordic triangle on the map and join the Right note. I think that they should take over as relatively poor. A good start had been to launch the Kongsvingerbahn and then get Stockholm on the high-speed map. Today's guest of honour, Obama, as there are many standing and looking at outside, is measured up to high expectations. The same applies to this government in the case of transport. I actually think that Obama has a greater chance of complying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1873	It has been a good and committed debate, although it may not be the debate that will go into history as special. But the word "historic" has been used many times today from the side of the government party. Then I would like to remind you of the space for action that this government has had – over 220 billion new ones on the table. Nevertheless, we see that the distance between what is being cleared and what is needed in the transport sector is very large. But I would like to comment on something the representatives have said. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr claimed that I have used the word ‘election bottle’ in an announcement I should have made at the beginning of October 2009. It is a time for the elections from October 2009. Then I have at least four years to deliver it on. I made such a statement because I am busy that the road in Fetsund needs to be better. But I don't intend to take lessons from the Progress Party in this area – the party that has shown renunciation when it comes to the road, which, on the other hand, only agrees with the word 'bompengar'. This means that we really don't get along, because they have an allergy to a drug that has helped to give a lot of ways. When it comes to the way in Fetsund, it is important that the municipalities seize that work. Because there is not a good plan solution in place for Glomma-crossing today. There must be a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox I can promise the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that I will work for it. I also mean that it's natural. The first part of the road in Fetsund is part of Oslopackak 3. It should also be the part that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr refers to in his statement. Then the representative says Ström that the leader of the transport committee comes with a complaint. I have tried to be nuanced, but in some areas I am busy that we need to get a better system. I've named the TT system, and I've named universal design. And I'm happy with the words that the Council of State has used here. Governments have said that in these areas there have been a lot of party speeches, but there has been no action. I am therefore pleased with the signals that the Council of State has given in this debate, in these areas that I have mentioned in particular, where I think there must be improvements. And then finally, I'll just comment on the representative, Sønsterud, who's just taking this up with the volunteers and the use of the nets. Here I agree with her. I found the thinking that the representative of Sønsterud is important. My point is that the Christian People's Party is impatient after it's going to happen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1886	It has been interesting to sit and listen to all the posts today. There have been many good posts, but also very many ‘acid’ posts – when the opposition has been reminded of what they have actually been doing on their own. The red-green government has four years behind it, I want to remember, and we know what we've got. We'll show you. We have over-filled the national transport plan, and it's a historic good thing that you've made it clear. Investments are being invested, maintenance is being invested, bridges and tunnels are being developed, curves are being carried out, and new sections such as: E6 through my own state – and through North Norway. There's a lot of work going on on the railroad. The railway station looked straight out, when we visited them, that the funds they received were what they asked for. They didn't have the opportunity to get away anymore. I think it is right that the high-speed rail should be explored, but I am also very satisfied that more efforts should be made on the long freight lines, such as the one on the left. The Northern Railway. It's very important to get more goods on track. The orbit is to be investigated, and we're still going to work to establish the New Corridor. I remember what came to Northland when Bondevik II ruled – that was not the big thing. I know what has come over the four years that have gone by, and I know what is in the national transport plan. I need a little visit to road safety. The representative Hoksrud wouldn't answer what you really thought about: Should it be full speed? Don't you want the police? Or how do you deal with traffic noise? It's the three elements that may be the most important to ensure that no more lives are lost. And the middle parts are important, we agree on that, but at the same time, the Progress Party had the chance – for three years – to provide middle parts on Norwegian roads, and there were not many meters with middle parts then. I can very proudly recommend the budget for transport presented by the Red-Green Government. I look forward to working on that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1899	The president just wants to draw attention to the fact that there are some interesting things happening also from the pulpit. And without commenting on any posts, I would say that from here there is at least gold grain – President Obama will not speak anymore today. The next speaker is Anne Marit Bjørnflaten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1904	Given who's going to be standing on the balcony right over the street in a few minutes, I really want to start my post by saying, Mister President! Mr. Hoksrud made a visit to Albania. I just want to replicate to the representative that it is so that the Norwegian transport budget alone is larger than the entire state budget for Albania. It may say something about the transport effort in Norway. After hearing the debate, it strikes me that the opposition really has quite simple analyses in some areas. It points to the reorganisation and separation of state modes of transport, to the OPS and the organisation of individual road projects. But reality isn't that simple. Now the Railway Agency is building capacity and competence, both to resolve the unacceptable situation we have today, and to meet the projects of the ambitious NTP. If we were to reorganise the Railway Agency into a state limited liability company now, it would involve a large-scale competitive outsourcing plus a comprehensive reorganisation. And I don't think that's the solution for the railway system in the demanding phase they're in right now in terms of reorganization. In the case of OPS, the Stoltenberg I Government started the first OPS project. This has been ex post evaluated and it turns out that it is not possible to demonstrate that OPS has a saving effect. The representative, Halleraker, was concerned that our neighbouring country is using private funding. But our neighbouring countries are not in the situation that Norway is in, namely having money on a book. The state has enough money. So if we get a OPS solution, we have to borrow private money from the state, and taxpayers have to pay interest and profit to private developers. In other words, the price is getting higher for the state, and we're shifting the costs to the taxpayers, plus that it's binding up the transport budget and priorities for years to come. That's why we're very critical of that solution. But as many of us have explained earlier today, we are not critical of different ways of doing this in relation to project organisation. I think it is striking that when the Government is now implementing major reforms and implementing major projects more comprehensively, it is actually being slaughtered by the opposition. I believe that the opposition had served more to show humility. The Stoltenberg II government was the first government to fulfil the NTP. We got renewed confidence from the voters, and we have presented a new NTP that is very ambitious and that we have very clear goals and obligations to deliver in relation to, and it has shown the voters that they trust us to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1917	You have to bring some big gold grain now if you're going to be able to catch the attention here in the hall, but I remind you that the pulpit is here and not outside the windows. I want to say something about the relationship between rhetoric and politics, the relationship between life and learning. The progress party talks a lot about road safety, but in terms of practical policy, they only remain on motorways. I would like to repeat what I said earlier today: there is a large range of measures and many agencies that have to work together to bring down the accident figures further. It's about information and training, it's about control and monitoring, and it's about action on the road. We'll never be able to build ourselves out of the accidents. They happen all over the country, and not just where the Progress Party will build the highway. If the Progress Party had attended the class, they would have come to realize that when they now propose to evaluate the driver training, we'll say welcome after. The national road authority is already evaluating driver training. If the Progress Party had followed in the hour, they would have realised that the recent plan for action on youth accidents is an additional commitment to — and coordination of — youth campaigns as one of the important actions. And when high speed is a contributing cause of half of all the fatal accidents, it is not a matter of concern that the Progress Party will increase the speed limits – they are proposing to speed up the speed of mopeds – and they will wind up stretching ATK, and they will shut down the Expedition Police. This isn't related, there's no connection between rhetoric and politics, there's no connection between life and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1926	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1929	What is related is that the Progress Party has funding for a much faster road development outside the framework of a 12-month spending budget. What I am speaking for now concerns case No. 5 – where I am the rapporteur – on changes to the 2009 budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. There's a Roman number proposal from a majority: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an external evaluation of the Coastal Authority’s operation in connection with the disaster of MV ‘Full City’ outside Langesund in Telemark.’ I see that the minister will have the floor after me, and I will encourage her to make a comment on it. This was done by the former Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs after the ‘Server’ incident. After a bit of pressure through the Stortinget, both an own evaluation was carried out, under the auspices of the Coastal Agency, and an external evaluation. We should also do that in this case with Full City. I would like the Council of State to comment on the proposal and, if necessary, to justify why it does not want an external evaluation linked to the ‘Full City’ failure and failure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1941	First of all, the question raised by Mr Halleraker concerning the port of Fosnav. In the context of the examination of the national transport plan in this Chamber, the Stortinget discussed the priority list Maritime infrastructure and fishing ports. Int. S. No 300 for 2008-2009, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department of Fisheries was called upon to ensure that the action in the port of Vannvåg was implemented in the first part of the planning period. Since Fosnavåg was the project that had been the shortest in the planning process, we chose to move it to the second part of the planning period. It is true that when something is to be given priority, something else needs to be given down, but it should not be removed. So the Swedish Coastal Agency has now started its work on the design and action in Fosnavåg, and is proposing that the action be completed in 2013. So to Full City and the questions raised about an external evaluation of the action. There I would like to point out what has been said, that the Coastal Agency is well in the process of carrying out a comprehensive internal evaluation. The Coastal Agency has engaged an external consultant to assist in obtaining information and compiling it for an evaluation report. The evaluation carried out by the Coastal Agency envisages a systematic review and assessment of the entire action, making possible improvement measures and the need for action visible. I therefore do not yet see the need for the Ministry to launch an external evaluation of the action. The evaluation of the Coastal Agency will be awaited, which is planned to be presented in early 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1948	The government has delivered on transportation. This is a good transport budget. I have been driving a car this summer, I have been driving a car with the windows down, because I have changed the good smell of newly created asphalt. It's the safest sign of a government betting on transportation. And the bet, which has been going on for a long time, actually means we have safe roads in Norway. Accident rates are too high, but in relation to many other countries, with much better roads than ours, we have low accident rates in Norway. National transport plan announces a new time for transportation, and there are two things that this government does, which I believe are important. Firstly, it shows the willingness to grant money. When you hear the big words used by the Progress Party, it is strange that they increase transfers to national road investments by less than NOK 1 billion. And then they show interest compensation as the only solution. In this debate, there has been an example of everyone building houses taking up loans and paying over time – that it makes the most sense. Yeah, that's right, but most people don't have $2,000 billion in the bank, and if people had so much money in the bank, they would pay the house in cash. We should also do that with the roads. Government parties are willing to do something that is unpopular: go in for toll projects. The progress party is pulling away the toll in the ejaculation in 2009. In fact, this debate may be long, but I am sure that a decision on the State budget would also be possible from 1 January onwards. [[Applause from the lawn outside the Stortinge in connection with Barack Obama's visit]] I hear the applause for my post, I appreciate it! The last challenge is administrative reform. We've given states more power, more money. Now it's about a willingness of the states to give priority to transportation. In Rogaland, the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party rules. They've got 130 million. kr annually in interest-rate compensation funds. But have they chosen to use the means to increase investment on the road network? No, they don't. It shows something about that when you have the opportunity – what is it you do? I have also heard in this room that one of the representatives was particularly eager to talk about highway robbery and to skin the drivers. In its own budget, the Progress Party goes in to lower the diesel price and the petrol price by 50 cents. Is it $11.50 and $11 that is the difference between skinning and not skinning the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1965	The President has a sense of applause for the speaker. I guess you could say that it's not every day there's a lot of applause in the lawn outside of Stortingen – so you're doing it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1969	President, I think this is going to be between us and a few more. At the moment, I think it's very difficult to get attention to anything other than what's happening in the lawn outside of Stortinget. But when I take the floor, it's because the Progress Party is still engaged in a double communication every time they are confronted with the consequences of their own policies. For example, the representative Sortevik has no concerns about the airport economy, despite the fact that the government through the 2010 budget has had to take exceptional measures to strengthen the economy of the Avinor system, precisely because the competition conditions in Norwegian aviation have become such that the Avinor system is uncompetitive, inter alia. of the strong growth of Rygge. Now I am not particularly surprised that the Progress Party has difficulties in recognising the consequences of its own policy, which is happening in more and more areas. But I honestly think that the Progress Party should be fair enough to tell you what the government parties are doing in terms of high-speed trains, in relation to the claims they are still making. The reality is that government parties have agreed to an investigation into high-speed trains and that government parties will decide on the investigations and results of the investigations that will follow. For my part, I do not exclude that in the future high-speed trains can be used, especially on one route, namely on the Oslo – Gothenburg route, which obviously has a potential for such traffic. But in that case, it's priority number two, because now it's about expanding the intercity triangle. It will be quite demanding over the next 10-20 years. In the meantime, there's another thing that's very important, and it's that new lines are now being sized so that they're able to withstand trains at speeds up to 250 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1978	I think it is very positive that the representative Hareide said in his post that he would work for Rv. 22, the so-called Faetwegen. Whenever you go out in the media and say you should do something for that distance, you shouldn't be surprised that people are asking for action. Then it gets a little weird when the Progress Party is the only party in this big crowd that mentions this section of this budget paper. It just shows what many have known for a long time, that in Akershus's transport policy there is only one party that has credibility, and that is the Progress Party. I have not accused Hareide of coming with bottlenecks in October 2009. Hareide's party traps were at a pre-election meeting, where they promised to make proposals for the Glomma Crossing. Then it is not unnatural to ask for this, among other things. in the budget document. Hareide then says that the municipalities have to come up with a solution for the route to be chosen. But this is a potential analysis that the state has to carry out, because the municipalities don't have any money here. It's the state that has to grant a small number of millions of dollars to get this analysis going. It was then claimed that the Progress Party is against roads because you are against tolls. In that case, we have not followed closely in our transport policy. There is no party in this Chamber that has proposed as much money as the Progress Party has done. We believe that financing infrastructure is the task of the state and not the task of the inhabitants, as opposed to the majority in this room, which believes that financing roads in Norway is the responsibility of individual citizens. There we have, among other things: Oslopackak 3, a package of over 50 billion kroner, where only a very small proportion comes from government funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e1987	The red-green bets big, they're proud, and there's no way. I have heard several speakers who have been up here and said that it smells asphalt everywhere. The only thing that tells me is that a larger proportion of this aggregate lives at an asphalt plant. Because I've been driving around, and it didn't smell much asphalt on the roads. Yeah, they're proud. 12 km of motorways are miles behind the old Eastern European countries and miles behind the poor southern European countries, but we are proud. Yes, 10 km with the middle parts, also here miles behind the Eastern European countries and the Southern European countries, but we are so proud. They bet, and they're proud. I hear more people from the red-green ones saying, "We're on the way." No, they're not on the route. I think they would have frozen quite a long time if they had had to wait for the bus they were going to wear. Is $1 billion after the NTP to be in a grid? It's 850 million. kr after the NTP on the railway to be on the route? No, it's not. And what's tragic is that it's far behind a path where the budget is initially far too small. The Bjørnface was inside the state budget in Albania, and pointed out how the Norwegian transport budget was in relation to it, and how good it was. I wonder if the representative Bjørnflaten has not come to realize that Albania has built three times as much road as Norway has. Has it gone all the way past the representative? Here it's talking about prioritizing, and then I hear one representative after another from the red-greens from Northernland here telling how great it has been in Northernland, and how little we in the Progress Party got through when we put in position, yes, the Progress Party put in position as a support party. Then we started the largest project that has been in Northern Ireland for many years, Lofast, we started E6 construction through Narvik, we started E6 construction through Fauske, and we started E6 construction through Hemnes and Rana. How much toll have we spent there? Not five flat ears. With regard to the boasting of the big stakes now taking place, there is a toll project at Helgeland, a toll project at Salten and a toll project in Narvik. So they tell us how good they are to travel to Oslo and the Stortinget, then send the bill to those who live in Northern Ireland – to the inhabitants of Northern Ireland, and to the business community who are going to send their goods out to the market in the East, or further away where they come out even worse than they ever did. Then it was said that the Progress Party has so bad... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2002	At least it's worth a try. Øyvind Halleraker has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2007	My note goes on the OPS and claims about it from the pulpit here. It's said that you don't want to go for it, because that means that taxpayers have to pay interest. Yes, maybe so, but it's not so unusual in many other investment projects in society, not in the public sector either. We can, of course, involve hospital investment as an example, school investment in municipalities, etc. The government model is that it's the road users who have to pay the interest, because that's what happens through the large-scale toll investment. Then you say that we have enough money, so we don't have to compare with our neighboring country. Yeah, well, at least you don't spend as much money as you would if you had started as many OPS projects as we've set up in our alternative plans. Then you say you want to look at different forms of project funding. That's good, because the government didn't want it. Then it's just left to get the government with. The example that you can use as a study case is the Gardermo extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2016	The representative of Gullvåg claims that the Progress Party wants to weaken the economic situation of Avinor. The truth is the opposite. For many years, the Progress Party has argued that there is a much better solution that the yield to Avinor is more likely to be left to expand aerodromes, both in relation to the aerodrome itself internally and not least in relation to the safety tasks of Avinor. Only this year, the Workers' Party and the Government crawled to the Cross and realized that this is the right solution. Another challenge for the government parties that are walking around dreaming of their lightning train is that it could be a disaster for the financing model of the airports. If no more aerodromes are going in profit, who in the world is going to finance airports that are going in deficit? And with deficits, everyone goes ahead of four. Therefore, the Progress Party wants the State to have much more direct financial responsibility for this cross-financing than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2023	First to the representative Svendsen: Yes, we are proud of the Norwegian welfare society, we are proud of the Norwegian model. We're not satisfied, of course, everything can get better. But we think it's better to have tolls on the road than having tolls on health, school, care, etc. That's what's the alternative, as we see in other countries that have right-wing rule. So to Halleraker in the case of OPS on E18 Grimstad-Kristiansand: We agreed on that, we wanted to reap experiences. We don't think there'll be such a cheap OPS again. To put it bluntly, foreign entrepreneurs were tricked into building cheap roads in Norway. They probably won't be fooled again, to say it like this. We have gained experience from that OPS project. We have also gained some useful experience in relation to the working conditions of the OPS project, which we are sure we will debate on a later occasion. But what's at the heart of our opposition to OPS is that it's binding the budget for a long, long time. Speaking of getting faster with OPS – no, I don't think it will. For example, the E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, which the representative Vossken has taken up, is in the back of the queue today. If you were to complete OPS in a large mon, it would come even later. That's what becomes a reality. There'll be less way for the money, and the roads will come later. I almost think we need to take a comitàur to Albania and the other Eastern European countries to look at the road standard, because I feel that the representatives of the Progress Party continue to say that the road standard in Eastern Europe is much better. Maybe we could look at the rest of those communities as well. I then expect that the representatives of the Progress Party in particular could bring home some useful experience, so that they might see that we have it quite well here in the country as a whole. Finally, Mr Henriksen's representative. I record that he is terrified of being measured by what the Progress Party has actually done. I think it might be a little unethical to blame today's government for the number of traffic fatalities, injuries, etc. It's almost as unethical as asking how many people were killed and injured in traffic in the three out of four years of the Progress Party supported the Bondevik government's budget. I'm not going to ask you that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2036	I can assure the representative of Kielland Asmyhr that the Workers' Party is also concerned with Fetwegen and Rv. 22nd@item: inlistbox However, as the representative Hareide pointed out, there are no concrete plans for finalising a new Glomma crossing. Those plans need to be put in place. It is not the responsibility of the municipalities, but the municipalities also have a job to do there. The trail is part of Oslopackak 3. In the end, the blue parties in Oslo and Akershus may seem to have been more concerned with putting in place new E18 westwards than other projects in Oslopackak 3. So the representative Kielland Asmyhr says that the Progress Party is the only credible party in Akershus in terms of transportation. Well, Oslopackak 3 was treated in Fylkinget earlier this fall. The Progress Party does not vote against the decisions that lie there and the Action Programme for 2010, but they have a protocol that says they are against the income base of Oslopackak 3. It's a double communication, and if you're going to take them seriously, it means that they're really against Oslopack 3 and against all the good measures for both road development and, not least, public transport that's there. Point 2: The propulsion party shall be the only credible party in respect of transport at Akershus. Here I also have a little visit to the representative Hoksrud. Hoksrud was concerned about the states and the transfer of other national roads in the context of the administrative reform. Well, in Akershus, the Progress Party is part of the position. Here the Progress Party and the Right want to spend the money they get, on completely different things than on road and public transport. So you might have to talk to your own before accusing the government parties, who in Akershus want to spend money on road and public transport, not to do what it's supposed to do with the administrative reform. I would like to sum up by saying that the Progress Party in Akershus has no credibility in terms of transportation. So finally to Halleraker and OPS, with loans and interest. I'm interpreting it so that the Right's new slogan is: we're making it build transportation in Norway more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2047	The President will remind you that the speech must be directed through the President, not in du form.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2050	I will first be given a mandate that I have on behalf of the Minister of Industry, who is the Council of State for the Minister of Justice. It's about the wire mesh. There was an early question in the debate from Bård Hoksrud about a now being able to have confidence that all costs had been incurred when it came to Naudnett stage 1, which is two years late. Let me say that when the government has now decided to increase the cost frame by 110 million. kr, then there is a result of negotiations conducted between the State and the supplier, and the purpose is to ensure the completion of the first stage of construction. So the Ministry of Justice says that they will come back to Stortinget in connection with increased licensing needs associated with an increased cost framework in 2010. It has been interesting for me to listen to this debate. Let me get a couple of points that are wanted. The sections that were discussed here, I don't think we're going to be able to sign out all of them. When it comes to broadband, it's surprising to get criticism from the Right that the government is too defensive on broadband, because I've now believed that the Right was that it was the market that would solve such questions. But I can assure you that in Soria Moria there is a good wording about broadband, which is to be followed up, and which says that we should ensure sufficient capacity to meet future needs for school, health, business and household. And it's actually like it's wider broadband, enough capacity, what's now about. That's 99.8 pst. having access in any form whatsoever. For bicycles: Yes, there is an offensive effort in the national transport plan. There is not so much to next year, but there is an extraordinary investment in the current year of NOK 1 billion. It's important there, I think, to coordinate the forces, i.e. the municipality, the county and the state, in order to get the most out of the money. Then it's almost tempting for me to use the expression "you're going to right a lot": it's strong when Arne Sortevik stands here and says that no one has any reason to be happy with the budget for the next year. Then I just have to say that I've already met people who are happy and expectant, and I think we'll meet more when one sees what's going to happen in 2010. There have been many years of neglect, but there is no doubt that the state budget for transport will spread much joy in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2067	I have had the floor before – it was the real representative of Kenneth Svendsen who made me take the floor again. There are two things I first want to remember. Once this summer, Siv Jensen, the leader of the party to which Kenneth Svendsen belongs, said to some newspaper in the eastern region – now I don't remember which – that you had to bet on transportation in the central eastern region. Until then, there had been little investment in the districts. It was probably because the Bondevik II government, with the supporting party the Progress Party, almost got to nothing. There was no commitment to transportation in the districts at all. The second thing I think we should at least remember – because the short-term memory is like that – is that the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party was out drawing a map where he was going to put down a lot of the short-term network, that is. The airports, in the districts, which would have been a disaster, because the short-haul network is one of the carriers out in District Norway. So that's the other thing to do if you got the reason. I am happy that the reasons have not been given and that the projects you wanted have been started, because then there would have been little traffic bills for District Norway. Then I must also remind you that we started this big effort in 2005, in connection with the national transport plan. By supporting the Bondevik II government, the Progress Party in three out of four budgets, from 2001 to 2005, was not close to the effort to be made. So I don't understand what building it is Kenneth Svendsen is talking about when it comes to Nordland. He rammed up Lofast and some other projects. There are many who have been involved in those projects, and they have been realised. So for tolls. The progress party in Oslo is for tolls. The rapporteur in Os is for tolls. These are local initiatives that have been taken over — tolls have been solved. I think the representative Freddy de Ruiter said it in a very good way here, when they talked about tolls in relation to health, care and other things. I think you should look at what you've done yourself, before you go to the frontal attack on the position, which has really made it possible to get a transport promise here in the country, both in terms of housing, and, not least, in terms of business and the infrastructure that we've begun to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2083	To bet on transportation is to bet on the future. The government's big effort within this area will make our roads less slippery and bumpy. New walking and cycling roads, mid pulleys and race protection projects will make it easier and safer to travel along our roads. For me, it's exciting to see how the county tackles the challenges they're facing when, from New Year's onwards, they transfer ownership to and responsibility for most of the ways we go. Today, it is known as ‘other national roads’. In the national transport plan, which was adopted before the summer, the majority of the Committee – i.e. the Red-Green Government Party – underlined the responsibility of the State to ensure that county municipalities are able to do their tasks properly. Of course, this is about money. The extra billion coming to the state from 2010 onwards is a good start. However, the further objective must be to ensure that the maintenance run can be reasonably achieved and that the counties have room to make important investments in the future. I would also like to show that the county assumes responsibility for 78 out of a total of 94 national road ferry services. The holiday homes on some of these lines are not in good condition or are suitable for managing new ferries with larger capacity. It costs something to do with these, and I would like to point out that in the distribution of funds between the counties in the future, the challenges facing the ferries must be taken into account, both in terms of investment and in terms of operation. It splits the new interest compensation scheme, with a loan pot of $2 billion a year, is the love of the county. I'm excited to see how this system will work. It may also make sense to consider increasing the permissions of this scheme over the years to come. Investing in transport is – as I said at the outset – just to bet on the future, and states must be able to make forward-looking investments in transport. It is also an exciting idea to create a corresponding loan scheme for large projects on the tribal roads. For some important projects, this may be the reason why they can be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2098	Steinar Gullvåg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2101	Then we experienced that Fredriksen's representative let the cats out of the bag. The Progress Party will simply finance the deficits at Norwegian airports through the taxes. So they're going to send the bill to the taxpayers, and not to the airline passengers, as the situation is today. Now, of course, we know the progress of the party with the taxpayers’ funds – there are no borders anywhere. As far as this area is concerned, the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party, Per Sandberg, has told us what he wants to do with the airports in District Norway – he wants to put down a whole series of them. That's the price of competition. This isn't about a haircut on Rygge, it's about a lot, a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2113	Steinar Gullvåg has clearly documented that there is alcohol, alcohol, tobacco, and perhaps some perfume to decide how to finance the regional airports in North Norway, within the scheme we have today. The big difference might be that we think it's better to let things other than alcohol and alcohol decide whether to get a regional airport structure or not. But what I really took the floor for is also that several of the representatives who have been to the pulpit today are very concerned that we are now on track. I would like to remind you that we adopted a road map in 1962 that we were going to build 785 km of road before 1980. Now we are in 2009 – we have built approx. 240 km, and we're going to build 12 km to next year! It's not very historic, and it's far from other countries. Maybe we should go to Albania to show the representative of the Ruits how nice and beautiful roads they build, despite the fact that they don't have the same financial assumptions that we have here in Norway. So to the emergency net, for the representative Sønsterud wondered how to get these numbers, 75 pst. These are the numbers we got from the municipality of Lørenskog, and I assume that the councillor in the municipality of Lørenskog does calculations that you can trust. These are also public documents that can be obtained in the department if you like. However, I would like to say that I find it sad that when we discuss this emergency network, at least when it comes to government budgeting, the Council of State rarely meets. It's pretty serious, because this is something that's not on the rails, but that should have been on the rails a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2122	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2125	The representative Kjernli said it was the municipalities that had to decide which trasé rv. 22 would have over Glomma. It's wrong, and that's what the representative, Kernli, knows. It's the state that has to initiate it. The state road authorities have said publicly that they are ready to do so, only the money will be put in place. The Progress Party has not been against Oslopackak 3. It is true that the Progress Party has voted against the financing basis for Oslopakset 3, but at the same time, every awakening representative knows that the Progress Party has made proposals in this Chamber for full state funding of Oslopakket 3, because we believe it is wrong to send the bill to most people, who already have enough bills to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2132	In contrast to the representative de Ruiter, I would like the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand to be completed as quickly as possible, with state funding. We have enough money, so that shouldn't be a problem. It was said here on the platform that the project would be delayed by OPS, but on the part of the Government, this route has almost not been planned yet. It can be stated that the opposition parties in Arendal and Aust-Agder have been trying for nearly 40 years to get a new path here, but have been delayed by, among others. The working party. This shows that it should be time to get it in place a new way here. It also shows that there has been little asphalt smell in East Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2137	What made me speak now was, of course, the representative of Tor Arne Stroem's post, where he tries to make a point out that the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, wants to spend most of the money on the East, and consequently very little money out in the districts. In fact, today most of the money is spent on large investments in the East. But we've managed to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We want to build on the East where there are large population concentrations, and where there are very many fatal accidents. But we also want to expand into the districts, because we see that there is an enormous need to transport the goods that we produce out there, into the market in a fast, efficient and cheapest way. It is clear that the representative has not intervened in the plans we have submitted. The representative, Tor Arne Stroem, makes a strong point that the representative, Per Sandberg, has proposed that some airports be closed in the long term. Here again he has not read what it is about. The representative is from Northland, so he knows well where these airports are. To take a few examples: there is an airport at Leknes and one in Svolvær and that is about. 6 miles between the two aerodromes. When the Progress Party intends to build a road at a speed limit of 90 km/h between the two aerodromes, most should understand that it is unnecessary to have two aerodromes. That's about. 8 miles between Lake Mosa and Mo in Rana, 6 miles between Lake Sandness and Lake Mosa – and there are three airports. If a road is built at a speed limit of 90 km/h between these locations, there is, of course, room for landing aerodromes. That is what Per Sandberg of the Progress Party has said. We want a massive investment in road construction. Once these roads are completed, so that people can safely and quickly get to the nearest airport, we can start laying down some airports. But where there's a need to have small airports, there we're going to have it in the future as well. I would like to comment a little on Bratli, who was in on it with certainty, and who said that the Progress Party did not have enough focus on security, just more speed. All right. In Vestfold – on a former road of 70 km/h speed limit – after building a new road of 100 km/h speed limit, no fatal accidents have occurred, i.e. there has been one fatal accident since that time. The same can be seen in Eastfold and Akershus. On my own account, I can tell you that in the municipality of Saltdal in Northern Ireland, there was a road with a speed limit of 60 km/h that was extended to the speed limit of 90 km/h. The police have stopped controlling, because there are no accidents there – but that was the accident route before. I agree that there are many things that should be done in addition to road safety, but most of what is done in this context today is to cover the poor road systems we have in Norway. That is why we need to invest in new ways, so that we can have a good country to live in – as Freddy de Ruiter said, and in which I fully agree with him. But it has to go on thinking and building on, so that we get an even better country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2152	I believe that both the representative Vosskensen and I are very interested and committed to getting the road between Tvedestrand and Arendal completed as quickly as possible. That's where I think we're quite in agreement. The problem with the Progress Party is, as always, that they don't want to finance with tolls. We think that's totally unrealistic. Then I don't think we'll get anywhere, either E18 between Tvedestrand and Arendal or anywhere else in the country. As I said in a previous post: I think it's actually better that we have some toll coming on than that we get it on health, school and care, as we see in other countries where we have a privatized society, as the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2161	The representative, Mr Ström, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2165	A brief comment on Kenneth Svendsen. When we talk about road development, it's actually the case, if I don't remember wrong, that with the plans that the Progress Party put forward to expand the roads and the E6 in North and North Norway, it would take 25 years. But we planned that we would take this in 15 years, do it piece by piece and divide it. The Progress Party has completely opposed it, and then it will take much longer. Finally, when Siv Jensen goes out and says to have a big stake in the central east region, at least it's going to be perceived this way – and I think it's right too – that then it might be less for the districts, you don't have the opportunities. If we were to spend 25 years on the roads in North Norway, build up E6 over 25 years, that means you don't have any big stakes on the roads in the northern part of the country. Actually, that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2176	I guess it was Fredriksen who was talking about Avinor, who wanted the state to take more direct responsibility. It's an interesting play. The progress party is really looking for AS verification. They're talking about the railway, the Vegvesen, the Coast Guard, etc. Avinor is an activity separated from the Swedish Aviation Agency. If it's the case that the state is going to go back in and take a much greater responsibility, that they're just going to run the money in, wouldn't it have been an equally good idea to take them back to the administration and let them go into the aviation industry as it once was? It would have been a much better idea than that the state should just transfer money directly into there. I think that piece is also little affected in the debate today, so it was really good that the representative gave me the chance to talk a little about it. Then to Albania. Albania has become a big deal in this room. That's a slightly sought-after example, I have to say. That road network is a little prehistoric, maybe, to say it that way. In addition, there are some people who believe that Albania is funding all of its own ways. They don't do that at all! They have good support from foreign capital, neighbouring countries, the EU, etc. It's not like they have so much less money than we have, but they still spend so much more money on the way than we do. After all, they don't pay everything by themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2185	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2188	I've learned one more thing today, and it's the similarity between Albania and Norway is that both have a prehistoric road network. It was Tor-Arne Stroem who made me take the floor. I think it is very nice to be allowed to speak when he has spoken, because I consider this to be a small training of the representative, Stroem, since he has not received what we have submitted. What the Progress Party has proposed is to build a two-field highway with 90 km/h all the way from Trondheim and beyond, and the four-field highway all the way from Oslo to Trondheim. We're going to spend a total of 25 years on that. It's a completely different standard than the one used by Stream, where he's going to build piece by piece and division, where it's going to go between 60 km/h and 80 km/h. None of the new roads to which it is added shall be built at a speed of 90 km/h or 100 km/h for the future. It has to be built with old standard. Since I have limited speaking time, I recommend the representative Stroem to contact me afterwards, and I will explain it to him!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2199	I understand that the expression ‘historical lift’ has provoked some. I mean there's a reason to talk about a historic elevator when you see an increase in a budget of 21.2 pst. from one year to the other. So I understand that the expression "in a path" is also provocative for someone. So there is a warning in the National Transport Plan that the Government will propose a gradual escalation. It's also something that the population has joined, and that's followed up. Therefore, this is not divided by the next four years, but a stepping up that can be measured in 21.2 pst. increase from 2009 to 2010. So I want to thank you for the commitment that has been in this hall around the different themes. It is good to be involved in my further work. In total, the government has submitted a very ambitious national transport plan – 322 billion kroner over the next ten years. With the omissions that have occurred, and with the challenges ahead, it is enough that not all needs are met – nor after the ten years. But here, there will be a lot -- reduced distance sinks, more security, and not least more environmentally friendly solutions in the future. Let me just say in the end that in the short time that the Transport Council has now learned to know wise leaders both in the department and in strange businesses. It's been a focus here today, especially on the road and the track. I can therefore say that I have met wise leaders, and I have met great constructive professionals, in the State Road Service, in the Railway Agency and in other companies, who are prepared to do a good job and who have received a clear message: they have even more to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2208	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four, five. [[See pages 1118, 1127, 1128 and 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2225	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2234	Today's rv. 78 has a bad standard, it's narrow and curved. In some places it is less than 6 m wide. In addition, the road is paved. The extension proposed here will be a short distance between Lake Sandness and Lake Meuse by 8 km, and shorter travel time between Lake Mo in Rana and Lake Sandness will be also. In line with the decisions of the Nordland County Council, it is assumed that the ferry link Hemnesberget-Leirvika will be closed when a new road between Holand and Leirosen with the connection Drevja-Emmervatn opens up for traffic. The holiday premium saved will be included as part of the financing of the development. This is an overall committee behind it. In addition, the project shall be financed by government and county funds, tolls and compensation funds for increased employer’s contribution. The majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, have joined it. The Progress Party has a different funding solution for the project, which I expect they will explain themselves. The majority of the Committee has also referred to the Nordland County Decision in the context of the examination of the case, where the county council requires permanent residents in intermediate locations between Hemnesberget and Leirvika to continue to have a satisfactory offer. The majority of the Committee requires this to be done by the municipality of Nordland. The propulsion party also has a wording on it, but with a different wording, which is presented in the setting. I want to come up with a few considerations as a Nordic representative and as a resident in this area. This road project will link Helgeland in a completely different way from today. It is, as I started with, a very rough road, narrow and curved, and it is the road to the hospital for very many, not least for the natives, who in summer have often had to be transported to Lake Sandness. It is not a pleasant matter when the road is the way it is. By getting the new road connection with the tunnel and the connecting roads, there will be work commuting between Lake Mo, Lake Sandness and Mo in Rana. It will be a very good move to ensure greater regional positive effects in the future. It will also provide a much safer way for those who are going there, and not least it will support the industry in Helgeland and other businesses, which use the road industriously. We see that traffic is increasing sharply. In particular, there is an increasing number of trailer traffic as industry, both in Lake Sandness, in Lake Mo, and in Lake Rana. Hopefully, the future's increased ring-effects of oil and gas activity in the Norwegian Sea will also increase traffic along this road. There are no transport options other than roads. It might be possible in the future to think that you can have more of the traffic on the keel. But as it is today, the road is the only solution. By getting the new connection, you get a much better offer for those who are professional drivers. In other words, there are a lot of good reasons why the project was initiated. It's had quite a long pregnancy. History actually goes over decades, from the first thoughts about it. Now the pregnancy is over, the birth is about to take place. I know that if it hadn't been evening and dark, the flags would have gone to the top in very many flags. In not many minutes, we can congratulate Helgeland. I'm taking the chance now. I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2268	I will begin by saying that I think the rapporteur and the committee have done a good job. Finally, this matter has come to Stortinget, and we are having it finalised today. After all, it has passed from vacation to autumn. I am also pleased to note that we have two of the rapporteurs involved in the respective municipalities present here today, from the municipality of Leirfjord and from the municipality of Wefsn. It's very nice, because there are people who have been incredibly busy implementing this project, along with many others. In Helgeland Arbeiderblad, the local authority, today said the following: Obama changes the time of treatment of the Toven case. I had to tell myself when I saw it this morning, that when it did not become a major postponement, there were two things that pleased at least me – and probably more – today, namely the Obama visit and not least the Twelve project. So it's been a big day today, to say it like this, also for a representative from Helgeland. This project is absolutely necessary in order to address the transport challenges that, not least, the coast and fish exports have faced for many years. Today's trajectory, rv. 78, is a very important transport year for individuals travelling both to the Lake of Lake Me and to the Mo in Rana etc., but not least it is important for the industry on the Helgeland coast. Together with E6, the road connects not least the housing and labour markets in the region, with the opportunities now available, i.e. Lake Sandness – Lake Mosøen – Mo in Rana. There will be a major rise in the standard on the road between Helgelandskysten and E6, not least in terms of reducing travel distances. In addition, the municipalities of Helgeland are now working on a package for Phase 2 of the Helgeland Road Package, which is intended to include a comprehensive development of E6 on Helgeland. It's also necessary. There is also a discussion of possible toll financing for an extension of the route, but it requires, as I said, local agreement. Such a scheme is now under way, and I believe that this is also going to go well. Things take time! As I also said earlier: The extension will be the short transport distance between Lake Sandness and Lake Messa with approx. 8 km. It's not a little. In addition, as I said, it is also a shorter journey distance from Lake Sandness to Mo in Rana compared to today's options. The tower tunnel is going to be an enrichment for these municipalities. If we go back a little bit in time, it was actually that in the early 1990s there was agreement on three major projects in the municipality of Alstahaug, the municipality of Rana and the municipality of Wefsn. One project was to have the development of the E6 Korg Mountain Tunnel completed. The second project was E12, tunnel, Umbukta. The third project was the Twelve Tunnel. Now you're about to realize the last project, which you've been very busy about, and it speaks for itself. This is going to be a success, and I congratulate both Helgeland and, not least, Nordland County on the project to be launched as soon as possible and to be completed in 2013–2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2289	So the Storting is going on again. During the last period, the Stortinget dealt with more than 30 toll financing cases. Taking Oslopack 3, investments for a total of SEK 90 billion were approved with a varying level of toll financing. The total toll bill was NOK 68 billion. Thus, with the addition of financing costs and collection costs – that is, the cost of purchasing the way for hire – of a total of 13 billion kroner, the toll bill was 81 billion kroner, 4 billion DKK for investment in public transport and 10 billion DKK for the operation of public transport. I remind you that the reason why these matters are dealt with in Stortinget is that the Storting authorises the use of special taxes through the handling of each case. Tolls are special taxes – an additional tax and, in particular, a tax on transport and mobility. In one of the world’s richest countries, with a financial fund of SEK 2 600 billion, all the other parties – the Workers’ Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – use special taxes on car transport when building new roads, special taxes on car transport when building collective facilities, and special taxes on car transport to pay for the operation of bus-based public transport. Now the Government and the Grand Duchy's broad majority are running again. This is the first of many cases, the first of two cases today, two cases that give a total new toll tax of NOK 2.6 billion, barely NOK 2 billion as a grant to finance the projects and nearly SEK 650 million. NOK at interest and collection costs, i.e. an additional payment of 650 million. kr. In the budgetary position that we have just completed, the government parties said, among other things. ‘It is important to ensure maximum infrastructure for taxpayers’ money’. The drivers can rightly ask if there is as much infrastructure as possible for taxpayers' money when they have to pay 650 million. NOK extra to contribute NOK 2 billion. It's expensive to buy a road on payment. Once again, the Progress Party alone recommends the projects and also recommends state funding. Again, there are the other batches in this room which, without any objection or objection, authorise the use of additional taxes. I know that these parties refer to so-called local initiative. That's what we call political extortion. I'm bringing a little clip from Haugesund City Council, when they treated the Haugalands package a couple of years ago: ‘Haugesund City Council therefore sees itself forced to accept tolls in order to solve more road projects, faster [[...]] It was adopted with the voices of the Workers' Party, Right, Left, Center Party, SV and Christian People's Party. There is no reason, in the view of the Progress Party, for a crooked state to force local and regional politicians to accept tolls and to accept the purchase of road tolls. The state has money, and the state should finance some of its citizens' money in road construction, as we have shown in our 2010 alternative state budget that we will do. The party of progress is happy about the project, but it is horrified by the funding. The Progress Party supports the projects in the Helgelands package. We propose state funding, which includes financing during the construction period. We want to add 30 years of ferry release solvents. However, the Progress Party points out that it is particularly important to remove an internal ferry in a municipality in order to use it as part-financing of a road system and several projects well away. I remind you of the ferry relief framework: ‘sub-financing of lines making ferries redundant.’ [[...]] We can find this in St.prp. No 67 for 2002–2003. The Progress Party assumes that those in need of maritime transport currently covered by the ferry will also receive it in the future. The Progress Party shall contribute to its financing package by completing the deployment of R & D. 808 to Hemnesbergt ferjekai with the 50 million. We have been informed that this will cost. The progress party also records that the municipality of Hemne feels put on the page through the handling of the case. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2328	I am pleased that the Stortinget today will support the proposal to expand and finance the Helgeland Phase 1 road package. As we can see from both the setting and the discussion so far today, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are some of them to follow up the decision of the Nordland County Municipality. Here we have done well for the very cause of the case-speaker Janne Sjelmo Nordås. The representative Tor-Arne Stroem has followed up with the local knowledge that he has, and that he shares with the spokesman. I therefore feel that it is unnecessary to repeat the project itself once. But let me say: I congratulate you on the day – to the inhabitants, to the local business community that gets involved in this project, and that gets better appearances, literally. I think of this as one of several examples of the Storting taking local democracy seriously. Local initiatives are thus making the level of toll financing possible. There are local initiatives, local authorities, which take the initiative either to provide a longer-term project or to implement a project at all. This way, we're going to get a total of more transportation for the money. After the debate we had in the previous case, the state budget for 2010, everyone in this room would be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2335	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2338	If the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party continue to do so, Norwegian drivers will pay NOK 700 billion in car charges, fuel taxes and tolls on the highways for the next ten years. The centre party likes to talk about a strong local democracy, but chooses to do the opposite on a case-by-case basis. Ferry link between Hemnes-Lairvika on rv. 808 is provided for in connection with the opening of new trasé rv. 78, and individual households lose the natural connection with their municipality centre in the municipality of Leirfjord. Does the Council of State think that this is a good way to maintain local democracy, or will the Council of State consider an initiative in which the boundaries between the municipality of Hemnes and Leirfjord are adjusted in line with proposals The Progress Party has promoted locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2343	I found it difficult, not to say quite impossible, to take the Progress Party seriously in their calculation, especially when I hear what they have used here about the historical government budget that has been submitted for transportation for the coming year, and the calculations the Progress Party has made for the coming ten years. Then to local democracy. When it comes to municipal boundaries, it's just locally looking for advice on just that. That's what's practice, so it's also a matter of dealing with local democracy – the same way that forcing a transport project or implementing a transport project with a local effort where tolls are part of the funding, is also taking local democracy seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2350	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1129]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2367	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2376	Kristiansand is Norway’s fifth largest city municipality, and large growth is expected in the coming years. The city already has major traffic problems, so something has to be done. The development and financing of the transport package for the first phase of the Kristiansand region involves a new 2,2 km of four-field road from Kolsdalen and out to the Lumber Cross. The road is west of Kristiansand and will have connection with E39. It has started in the autumn of 2010. In addition, a soft package of approx. 2 500 m walking and cycling paths. This package includes Kristiansand and the surrounding municipalities, also a few municipalities in East Agder. The Timenes-Kjevik road bit must also be upgraded. It's the main road to Kjevik Airport. The road is in the package. The road is poor, but since the solution to the new route of access for Kjevik is not available, it is initially planned to improve the route and cycle path along the current path. I expect the other parties themselves to explain their views on this matter. While the Progress Party believes that the state should finance infrastructure, the government parties focus primarily on how the drivers should be confiscated for money. Just hear what government counterparts write in tax, tax and customs decisions for 2010: «The one-off charge is intended primarily to provide revenue to the State.» The Progress Party is opposed to any unnecessary red tape and waste of taxpayers’ money and believes that Norway can do well without administrative powers and regions. The transfers to the counties of the 17 000 km of poorly maintained roads that the State would not have, are a step in the wrong direction and will burden the drivers even more. Section 20 of the Road Act clearly states that it is the public responsibility to plan, build, repair, maintain and operate the roads. This is fully in line with the policy of the Progress Party. It's unheard of that the state disclaims responsibility, as they do here in the Kristiansand package. However, when local politicians repeatedly apply extra taxes to the population, it is not surprising that government parties can rub their hands, because they do not have to finance the roads of the state budget. An example: the local majority regime in Kristiansand would initially offer discounts on frequent use of the bombs, but when they were asked by the Government to leave the discount, it was clearly quite fine. At the top of it all, tolls and road taxes are often used for purposes other than roads, such as road transport. public transport or walking and cycling paths. Is it fair for the drivers in Kristiansand to pay for walking and cycling paths around the district, as the plan is in the Kristiansand area? No, it can't be! The Progress Party supports the projects and actions contained in this Kristiansand package, but we do not support the use of toll funding. There is no doubt that what is contained in this transport package is very much in need of the Kristiansand region, but a safe and good road network in this region is the state that has to pay. In the Kristiansand package, there is also talk of cow tax as part of the scheme related to the projects. The party considers this to be an additional tax on transport. Yeah, there's a tax on the top of the tolls. The road bit Kolsdalen–Lumber will also be the first project in this period to be established on the new county road network, with the state providing 17 000 km of poorly maintained roads to the counties, without enough money. So the state has not managed to maintain the roads itself and ease them to the counties. Disclaimer, just as when Pontius Pilate in old-day double his hands, there are the red-green here copies. It is with sorrow in my heart that no one from the West-Agder bench is putting on this debate here today. Finally, I will be allowed to comment on the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2407	The representative Inbjørg Vosskensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2410	This case concerns several projects for both road, pedestrian and cycle routes and public transport in the Kristiansand region. The package is the first of two phases, and by splitting it you ensure that you get started quickly with the projects that are the most advanced in the planning phase. The transport package proposes to improve the road to Vågsbygd, where about one third of the population of Kristiansand live. The soft part of the package will lead to significant improvements in the availability and accessibility of pedestrians and cyclists. It is proposed to further strengthen the collective network and develop road safety measures. These measures will facilitate the switch between being a driver, a cyclist and using collective means of transport in Kristiansand. Like the other major cities in the country, Kristiansand is growing, and the measures will help meet the challenges facing local transport. With regard to the financing of the package, both government funds and tolls have been provided. There is a broad majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, who want to do so. In the context of the administrative reform and transfer of other national roads to the counties, the relevant national road sections of the package will be reclassified into county roads. It is therefore expected that the Aust- und West-Agder municipalities will cover the State contributions with the money they receive from the State. Government parties at Stortinget have noted that the Ministry of Proposition points to the discount structure of the bombing. The Government Parties at Stortinget share the Ministry's view that the general rule for new urban bombings, with a flat discount structure limited to tile users, must be followed by future changes to the discount system and request that the Ministry contribute to such a local revision. At the same time, we realise that the local policy decisions relating to this matter were taken before the new general rule was a reality. Any changes will, of course, require local decisions to be taken. We do not accept changes to the discount system through the comment we have on the matter, but we would like to see it so clearly that we consider changes to the discount system locally. This is also linked to the four-year agreement concluded with the Ministry of the Kristiansand Region on funds from the reward scheme. Here, car-restrictive measures are part of the agreement. In the agreement between the Kristiansand region and the department on the reward scheme, it states in particular:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Total traffic in the area shall not increase from 2010 onwards and preferably be reduced.’ It also states in the agreement, signed by the rapporteur in Kristiansand and the Department, that a rush time fee or other measures having equivalent effect are to be examined in detail for implementation in 2011. This is what the government party refers to in its comments. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party accuse us of having transformed the reward scheme into an instrument to persuade cities to introduce road pricing. To our two climate settlement friends, I have two things to say: Firstly, the agreement between the Kristiansand region and the department provides for the investigation of the amount of the alcohol duty. This isn't something new that we've come up with right now. Second, what's the background for that? Well, now I'm going to quote from the climate agreement between the government parties, the right, the Christian People's Party and the left. Under 6.5, the reward scheme for public transport is set out, inter alia: the following: ‘The Parties agree that the allocation of the public transport reward scheme is doubled in the 2009 State budget, provided that binding agreements are reached on local and regional measures for the reduction of car traffic.’;» We doubled the reward scheme in 2009, but – note – with binding agreements on local and regional measures to reduce car traffic. In addition, it says: ‘The priority shall be given to urban areas wishing to test road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures. Road pricing is a local tool. Therefore, road pricing will not be introduced without local connection.» This is not new either. Road pricing is mentioned in the climate agreement, but of course it also requires local support and local decision-making. That the Right Party and the Christian People's Party want to get away from this by comments both in this matter and in the budget that we discussed earlier, I cannot interpret as anything but that they are moving away from the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2445	I need to comment on two of the things that Kernli mentions in his article. The only thing the representative picks up is what goes on the discount system. What came out in the post, I thought I was very clear, that there must be a local connection here before a rearrangement of the system. I thought that was a very good signal from the government party. The other thing is what goes on in the climate agreement that we have concluded. The Christian People's Party is in favour of a rush-time charge. We stand firm by our decisions, but we have made a climate settlement. So in that climate agreement, it says: «Weeping is a local instrument. Therefore, road pricing will not be introduced without local connection.» That's what we're doing. We then respond to the fact that the reward scheme is used as a breakstone to in one way affect everyone locally to get into it. To clarify this, we have therefore chosen not to support the comment from the Right, because we take responsibility for the climate agreement we are in, although the Christian People's Party has a primary position that is very clear. We see the running time charge as a positive tool, but we take responsibility for the climate agreement. There was a party of the government that was right, and there was a party of the Christian people. In the Prime Minister's office, there was agreement on this, and it is the Christian People's Party to stick to, even though we have a different primary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2459	I drew myself late, because I had not really intended to say so much in this matter. But it was Gorm Kjernli who made me take the floor. Now essentially Hareide said most of what was necessary to say. In my opinion, too, Kernli completely reversed this matter. There are others who are now trying to get away from the climate agreement, which we were completely in agreement with, and the assumptions that we introduced, which were excellently explained by the Hareides. I would like to remind you that it was also the bourgeois parties that brought the reward scheme into the climate agreement, and so were we who made the premise for it to be doubled. We were also very clear on it, weighing all the words on a gold weight, because we should agree on this. But now when you start to hollow this out and almost make it clear that it was kind of a premise that you could do this, it's different than us that go away from the climate deal. I think you should think very carefully before continuing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2466	I had not intended to take the floor in this matter, but when it is possible to misunderstand what Kernli said, I absolutely do not understand what the Christian People's Party and Right are doing. Kernli read up what's in the climate agreement, and what their party leaders have signed up to. It's obvious. I don't need to post more than the last part, because we've fulfilled the first part, about a double: ‘ subject to binding agreements on local and regional measures for the reduction of road traffic.’;» [[...]] It can't be said easier than that, and that's what Kernli did. That it is possible to misunderstand that in relation to the matter we have today, I have no understanding of it. It is an obligation on which the Right and the Christian People's Party have joined, and on which I hope they are still in – for the climate's sake!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2475	I also want to rejoice with this action, this package phase 1, which is a follow-up to a local task. I think it is good that the initiatives and the work that is now taking place in the Kristiansand region are as broad a deal. So that's the way it's talking about two phases. Phase 1 consists primarily of a soft package – of walking and cycling roads supplemented by some collective and traffic security measures in Kristiansand and surrounding municipalities. So there is a close and constructive cooperation between Kristiansand and the municipalities around it, such as Kristiansand. will lead to a coherent pedestrian and cycle road network, which will help to create a transport system for the Kristiansand region, which will facilitate a switch between driving, public transport, pedestrians and cyclists. As you can see, this project is an example for many others. And then one comes to phase 2. There, local authorities provide for the construction of a new E39 between Gartnerleukka and Sägne and a further focus on actions within the programme area. Measures to curb the growth of passenger car traffic will also be considered. The concept, choices, distribution and external quality assurance must be based on phase 2. So what's going to be discussed here. I have to admit that I was surprised by the representative Halleraker's intervention in connection with the budget, saying that a sneak away or trick people into changing the reward scheme and the demands made there. Speech is currently required several times. Let me just remind you that the point 6.5 that we're discussing here contains five sections. There can be no doubt here that it is a goal of the reward scheme to put in place both better public transport and less car use. It has also been said that urban areas that wish to test road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures should be given priority, that road pricing is a local tool and that road pricing is not introduced without local connection. I sincerely hope that everyone is still behind all five points. It is in such a context that I also experience the representative Gorm Kjernli when he interprets how the comment on this matter of looking at the discount scheme should be followed up. What he says is that we don't make any changes to anything that's been introduced, but he asks the department to look at it next time. So that means, as I see it, a change in the discount system, for example. may be submitted as part of the transport package for the Kristiansand region Phase 2. As I have already said, the preparatory work is under way, and it is said, among other things. shall be an allowance for an early payment. Let us today rejoice over the commitment and intercommunal cooperation that is in Kristiansand in a field where everyone uses fine words and says they're busy with it. Let's enjoy it, and let's also use this example in our discussions in relation to other urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2490	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2493	I was at home with four small children in my younger days. When the children needed new clothes and I had money on book, it was never in my mind that I should not buy what they needed – rather to save my grandchildren! It's therefore difficult for me to understand when the government says they can't spend more government money on safe roads, which will benefit us all, because they're going to save money for the next generation, or for their own age, or they're using other excuses. So the government is also paying for the roads in the form of extra taxes. This is clearly seen in the Kristiansand package. My question is then: Why does the state not pay the bill on the road network itself, when it is stated in Section 20 of the Road Act that it is the responsibility of the public authorities, and is there an investigation started on the route Search – Ålgård in Vest-Agder/Rogaland as promised by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2503	Let me take the Storyyard first. Søgne-Ålgård is a KVU that will be ordered now at the end of the year, together with a number of other KVUs that will then be ordered. There I'm aware that 2010 is just ahead, and I'm going to follow it up. Then I feel that the rest of the line goes to the state budget in total. Let me then repeat that what I think is very important in the context of transport, is to contribute to the creation of a project that would otherwise come further into line when local initiatives are taken. I also perceive this package phase 1 as a great local effort that it will be very exciting to follow further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2510	I know that I was a little at the top of the vocabulary in my main contribution to the budget debate with reference to this matter. It was quite conscious, because I feel that the government is moving from what we agreed on, which should be – shall we call it – a carrot scheme that would tempt municipalities, county councils and those who had the opportunity to do so, to seek the reward scheme to implement measures that would lead to the points mentioned by the Council of State. That's absolutely right. My question to the Council of State in this line is: Why does she not mention other possible car-reduction measures in a case that concerns something quite different, namely to finance road development around Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2517	I commented on the matter that is now under way. I also commented on a comment that we should follow up on. I give tribute to Kristiansand and surrounding municipalities for the work they are now doing. So in the reward scheme, it's over 300 million. kr, and I guess it's also the case for the Right as it is for the Government that this is not money that should be used unilaterally to create a bus or a collective offering. In fact, binding agreements on local and regional measures for the reduction of car traffic shall be followed up. That's what I've been up to. The agreement has been concluded when it relates to Kristiansand, and what the department here has asked for, is that one contacts and sees what one gets in place of local decisions in connection with phase 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2524	I'm going to be a little bit more specific on my question, because it's not about what the Council of State has said here tonight. It's about what the department writes into the proposition – a proposition that's about a financing solution for the Kristiansand package. So you choose to draw out a possible scheme within the reward scheme, which even requires a local desire to get the scheme in place. Then you pull it out and not all other possible measures that the municipality and state could use, and we know that very many other states have used them. So you choose to draw out one scheme, and that's when we call it an untimely influence on municipalities and counties in a direction that wasn't meant in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2529	The climate agreement mentions road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures. It has been said that urban areas that want to test these schemes should be given priority. After looking at this reward scheme – these days we are having conversations with Busker City, and an agreement has been reached with Trondheim – I actually thought that there are other metropolitan areas where we could wish for even more commitment to combinations that go both to bet more on collective and at the same time to achieve ‘less car use’, as it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2536	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2541	The Kristiansand package is fantastic! First, it's working well locally to get a broad deal, both politically and geographically, for a road network that's going to enjoy the whole city. Especially happy is the continuous walking and cycling network in Kristiansand. It is good for the climate, good for health and good for road safety. How can you kill a good news? Well, by boiling soup on a nail. That nail actually turns out to be pretty rusty. Now it is the toll that becomes the big issue in this big case in Kristiansand. There are several people who have referred to this, and I'm not going to repeat it, but the local agreements are the basis, and they're still going to do that when it comes to developing the road network. And the climate agreement is firm. I also note the optimistic signal in the Committee's position that there is a need for investment in infrastructure in the transport corridor between Oslo and Stavanger. There is a need for a better road network. This, along with funds for planning the Transport Package 2, was our election vows to the inhabitants of West Agder. I record that the right-hand side is occupied with promises in relation to the climate agreement, but they cannot be particularly concerned with promises that they themselves made in the election campaign. I can only record that the promised three OPS projects to Agder, and as far as I can see, it is in an unpriority list with a total of 22 road sections, of which the E39 Coastal Route is marked ‘Divided into appropriate single sections’. The representative Halleraker from the Right pointed out that Kristiansand's inhabitants and people in West Agder would notice that we had gone away from the promise of OPS funding actions. I think the voters in Kristiansand will notice to a much greater extent that the Right has run from its roadlifts in West Agder. The trustworthiness of the right in this matter is not great.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2554	It is true that almost everyone has said that they did not intend to take the floor in this matter. Actually, I didn't have that either. But when the previous representative says that there are people who are trying to "buy soup on a nail" and that there is a bad nail, I realize that people in the Kristiansand region react when they suddenly find out that there is actually a toll bill coming that gets a lot bigger than intended, and at least than it was told in advance. I get it as well as I get them in Westfold who get a toll bill of 66 kroner on a tiny distance of four kilometers. 66 kroner to drive a truck four kilometers! So I understand this very well. This shows something: I'm not allowed to say that, but I think very often about highway robbery when I see what the consequences of the things we deal with in this room are for ordinary people. Here are the sharp increases in the cost of the individual, and all of a sudden. When people really discover what's at stake, and when you take away some of what you've sold in as a good thing – that it's going to be a good discount scheme – I understand very well that people react. I understand that people in the Kristiansand region today are surprised at what is now suddenly being served in a dish, and what is actually happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2561	What professionals say to their fatherland friend today is that there will be minor changes. Some changes become, yes – somewhat lower discount, probably, in the long term, but also perhaps lower pass price. The bill may be higher for someone, but lower for others. I want to withdraw a thread to the budget debate we had earlier today, because that is what the Progress Party clearly puts up every time you discuss such matters, that you should discuss the toll policy in general. We can do that. But I would like the Progress Party to put it into a distributional perspective. Because with the privatisation policy the Progress Party wants to implement in the Norwegian community, it is paying a few cents in tolls to drive down the road, or in relation to what you have to pay gradually for other public welfare services such as school, health and care. That is what we see in countries that are pursuing such a liberalist policy. So I want a progress party that might be more concerned with discussing it and seeing things a little bit in context, and discussing distribution policy, and not just drawing out one thing and making populism on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2568	I have to speak again, because I understand that I have received a visit from Kari Henriksen that we are not following the National Transport Plan and what we have said about OPS solutions. Perhaps then I think that Kari Henriksen should find out the budgetary documents and see what it says. It has to be a minimum that you have some idea of what you're talking about anyway. The financial position explicitly states that we are in favour of OPS financing three projects. We added 200 million. kr for additional planning and design to achieve this. We have the Right Transport Plan, as an alternative to the National Transport Plan, with a long list of – rather unprioritised – routes, which we will enter each year. And as we have budgetary practices in this process, we cannot promote the same projects in this sector budget. That's how we've arranged, but they're in the financial position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2573	I was kind of provoked by the representative de Ruiter who has now several times told the same story – and I'm sure going to do it again – about the payment society and the Progress Party. You have to listen to representatives of social democracy and the Norwegian Royal Workers' Party when they talk about payment societies, because they are experts. We have a payment society in the hospital sector where you can buy away from bad public services. There is a high proportion of people in the public system and an increasing proportion of people after four years of social democratic rule. That was the one comment. The second comment relates to what the representative de Ruiter still will not understand, that the solution of the Progress Party in financing investment in infrastructure is to link Norway's oil wealth with a loan scheme and return from funds, which also parties other than the Progress Party will eventually begin to see the possibility of using, but above all the loan arrangement, and then operate it through annual appropriations on the State budget. So when we use this approach, we are able to link oil wealth to the need for large investments in installations – in road installations and in railway installations – that will last a long time. Then we manage to get out of the coercion that a one-year spending budget is in Stortinget, which means that we stand here year after year and year and hack out a few extra sharp crowns to build some whiskers with. What we need is a completely different system. We need a renewal in terms of financing investment in infrastructure, and it is clear that either the representatives of the Workers' Party do not understand it or they will not understand it. I repeat that what the Progress Party recommends to do is to use known instruments as amortization schemes – i.e. interest compensation schemes – to cover the annual costs of operating loans, and we want to use fund returns. We want to use some of the returns that come from the oil wealth. Both of these methods are in use, but we're going to use them to a much larger extent. We want to use them to invest in infrastructure, build new roads and new railways much faster and to a much greater extent than the Workers' Party wants. That's the big difference, but that doesn't mean we're starting to pay for other public services like health care, social services or education services with the Progress Party model. At least we're not going to pay more than what you're already doing with the Labour Party regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2583	The President wants to remind us that there is nothing called the Royal Norwegian Labour Party. On the other hand, we have the Norwegian Labour Party. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2602	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2611	The starting point for this debate today is the possible implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The proposers would like the Stortinget to be presented, inter alia: the law relating to the questions of principle which they consider to be raised by the Directive. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Red-Green Parties and the Right, indicates that the Government has signalled that a consultation note should be made clear and sent out on an ordinary consultation round before Christmas. The Government will then, after a thorough review of the responses, make a recommendation to the Storting for treatment by the end of 2010. In other words, the size will be given the opportunity to have a broad and thorough debate on the possible implementation of the Directive in the next year. The majority therefore proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes. The exposure is large in the case of the directive, and that is good. Democracy must always have a lively debate on how best to safeguard privacy, and it is the responsibility of the state to ensure it. But the state also has a responsibility to fight crime and create security and security for its citizens. It's also privacy. Therefore, important considerations need to be taken into consideration in the debate on the Data Storage Directive. This is also the background for the Workers' Party's wish to implement the Directive in Norwegian legislation, provided that there are no clear negative consequences for privacy in the consultation process that is currently under way. The three governmental parties are, as you know, divided in the view of the Directive. A serious infringement case is currently being rolled up in Bodø. There, the police doubt that the storage rules we have today for traffic data prevent the police from identifying several of the victims in the case. Unfortunately, this is not an outstanding example. In the context of a police action in Central Europe in June, Kripos received 709 unique Norwegian IP addresses used to exchange child abuse images. This means that very many people in Norway have received or sent files with child pornography content on this network. No Northmen were taken. According to a recent directive of the Swedish Data Protection Authority, all IP addresses were deleted. It was not possible for the police to track the people who had downloaded pictures. Representatives of both police and prosecution authorities are seriously concerned that Norway could become a country from which criminals will operate, because we have limited access to the use of tools necessary to combat serious crime. Just as we've all got new tools that make it easier to communicate, so criminals have. The aim of the directive is to ensure that we have similar tools to combat this crime. Traffic data is also stored in Norway today. In addition, Stortinget has instructed the telecom companies to provide this type of information to the police. Traffic data has been important for the clarification of serious criminal cases, such as the handkerchief, the Munch case and the NOKAS case. Also IP addresses are stored, but the new requirements of the Data Protection Authority have led to a number of issues that cannot be identified. The Labour Party therefore believes that the Directive is important for combating crime and that it is not least important to harmonise our legislation with the laws of our neighbouring country. Then the Workers' Party has clarified an important reservation: Privacy considerations must weigh heavily. Today, too much sensitive personal information flows around society. There are several examples of telecoms leaking birth numbers and other personal data due to lack of safety. It is therefore necessary to discuss how to ensure privacy better than today, as well as to discuss such issues as: the length of the storage period. The Workers' Party has also stated that judicial review requirements should be introduced in the implementation of the Directive. On 5 December 2007, the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen put a written question to the Minister for Transport, stressing the importance of Norway implementing the Directive and giving reasons for its effective fight against crime. In retrospect, the Progress Party has gone away from this vision, and I regret that. I also wonder why the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party want to deviate from the regular treatment of the directives to other EEA-related matters, as the proposal is designed. The majority view is that we want the best possible knowledge base to address the question of implementation after the government has completed the consultation round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2628	When I stand here today and look beyond the Storting, I think of 1814 and the men who gave us Norway's constitution. The Eidsvollsmen were before their time on important themes such as individual freedom, freedom of expression and legal certainty for all – 134 years before the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights followed up the same ideas. The Eidsvollsmen knew very well that the one who sacrifices the freedom of security does not get any of the parts. One of the paragraphs of the Basic Law, which has not been amended since 1814, reads as follows: ‘House Inquisitions shall not be located but in criminal cases.’ This was written by the owners of the Basic Law § 102 all 192 years before the EU Data Storage Directive, but they are undoubtedly just as right in 2009 as they had in 1814. To date, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have introduced photography of all drivers in the new photo-boxes, provided sensitive information on people's income and wealth to the whole world, and since 1 January Sweden has allowed Norwegian network traffic to be monitored by the FRA Act. When the Government is likely to introduce the Data Storage Directive in Norway, it becomes even worse. The state wants to store text message information – SMS – phone calls, position data and Internet traffic for up to two years. Some monitors claim that the Data Storage Directive will facilitate the fight against crime, but forget that it is easy to avoid monitoring by using Skype, Hotmail or more sophisticated data methods. In 2007, the German Federal Criminal Service suggested that data storage would only increase the clearance of crime from 55 p.m. up to 55,006 pst. How much should the freedom of the individual be limited in order to make us feel a little safer? The United Kingdom provides 653 public services with access to the data. It affects the privacy of most people, while the criminals can continue as before. The Progress Party is willing to use Norway’s right of reservation. We believe that the Data Storage Directive should at least be thoroughly addressed in Stortinget, including the most important, namely data protection issues. This should be a matter of course. When the Progress Party invited to a meeting on the Data Storage Directive on 26 November with the Data Protection Authority, Telenor, Stop the Data Storage Directive and ICT Norway, after having asked for a hearing in the Committee, none of the other parties chose to participate. I fear that it can show how far today's magnification has moved away from the ideals of Norway. I think the mariners would have been shocked if they had come to know about the delicate handling of privacy and sensitive information by the red-green government. The Constitution leaves no doubt as to what the Owners thought about freedom of expression, privacy and the individual's right to freedom. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Progress Party, but had hoped that the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre could also join. Do the government parties really believe that the Storting should not be properly treated by the Data Storage Directive, which should cover the data protection aspects? I am glad that at least there are still parties in Norway fighting for democracy, freedom and the right to a life without snooping and extraditing privacy. I would like to take up the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2657	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2660	This case provides a good opportunity for a discussion on the Data Storage Directive – on privacy on the one hand and on what is more about combating crime on the other. When the Right is in the majority that we will await the consideration of this matter, it is simply because we believe that we do not know what the Government means. The government has not submitted any information on this matter. The government sits on both a capacity and a competence, and has access to a device that says we're waiting for what the government is going to mean, and the government has also signaled that they're going to bring a hearing note before Christmas. It's not long, it's promised before Christmas, but it requires the government to decide on a hearing note. Now we know that there is a so-called internal opposition in the government also in this matter, and it could have been good to get informed of which state council would be constitutionally responsible, and whether one can expect the government to act collectively in this matter. There have also been various signals from the Government on when to deal with the matter in Stortingen – to spring or to autumn. It would also be good to clarify. And the Right – unlike a number of others who have taken a stand on the matter and who are well informed – underlines the importance of having a wide consultation. It is also important to highlight both what is going on in the field of privacy — it has already started with a number of opinions — and to bring in what is going on in the agencies and organisations in the field of justice and crime and a number of bodies, such as Kripos, the Police Security Service, the State Attorney with more. It is also important that the Government make a timetable visible and who will handle this matter – and how. In addition, the party leader of Right, Solberg, sent a letter to the Government on 13 November with a number of questions – key questions – to which we expect answers. Once the Government has decided and the broad consultation has been carried out, we shall also participate in the substantive examination of the case. However, as the proposal for a representative is now available, we await the government’s consideration of the matter – and I hear the majority have agreed to it – and propose that the matter be annexed to the protocol and that we return to a deep and thorough debate when the government has come along with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2671	The normal procedure for the government party is often that when there comes Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party, assesses whether time should be allocated to them. For they often come years after year – over and over again – the same suggestions. And then there may be a bit of abuse of the Stortinget and the government party's time to debate on the same topic. It's not exactly like that in this case. But it was actually the government party had a discussion about this with the government council, and we became a few that we should not spend time on this proposal, because we thought that the government had a process for this, which made us get the treatment we needed to arrive at the position one had to reach through hearings and cooperation in the government apparatus. Now I note to my surprise that one of the largest government party, however, started the debate on the principle, on the basis of a proposal from the Progress Party. In any case, it seems that there has been a movement in what the fractional leader said, and it has been warned so far. But I wonder if this is a trick, at least I think it's a little timely to tell you that in the red-green fraction we had actually become a few about a process, which is not being followed up. But then I see that the parliamentary leadership of the Labour Party has also signed up on the list of speakers, so I may wait with political speeches after that article has been held.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2680	The government has signaled that a hearing note should be sent to the hearing before Christmas this year. However, I would remind myself that it is a real hearing, and that it is actually three months that the authorities have the opportunity to be heard. I believe that such a hearing is wise, I believe it is important that the bodies are given the chance to report back on the concerns and challenges of the directive. After the consultation round, it is suggested that a broad review be carried out, and then we get the matter back with a recommendation from the Government and get a debate on it in the Stortinget. In this context, the Centre Party has been part of the majority proposal submitted by the Committee, but we believe it is necessary and important to hear what the Hearing Officers think. Nevertheless, I am not in doubt that the assembly knows what is the central party's primary position in relation to the data storage directive. But we want to take that debate when the hearing bodies have had the chance to say so. On that basis, we support the proposal that the matter be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2690	I want to say that from the Christian People's Party's side we go into all the matters that are being dealt with in this Chamber. It's about things from the Government, and it's about things that are brought about by the other party. We have also done so in this matter. However, we felt that the Progress Party was raising an important debate. We see that with the emergence of an information society, it is very important to have both a clear and a principled hold. We have to ask ourselves, what are our dishes? This applies both to freedom of expression and privacy – yes, I will also use the word human dignity. Society should not monitor us for no reason. Here, a principle is that we're all suspicious until the opposite is proven. Here everyone has to be checked – yes, here everyone has to go. The Christian People's Party is very critical of schemes that rock human rights and freedom to communicate freely without being monitored. The problem here is that it's going to be the sum of all the schemes, all the individual things, that are involved in creating the problem. Yes, it's actually the sum of the good intentions in themselves that contribute to creating the problem. I would also like to say, when the representative of the Bjørnflaten says that this is another case compared to the EEA case, that I think that exactly what the proposal is proposing is very important and very good, because a request for a thorough explanation of this in the Storting is very important, so that we can see what the option might be to implement this directive. What we are experiencing is that many of the members of the directive say that unless Norway implements this directive, we will be a free port for various things, for example. online. But then we have not considered what is the alternative to implementing this EEA Directive. So the Christian People's Party will support the good proposal of the Progress Party. The Progress Party raises an important debate with this proposal, and we welcome this debate when the Government finally decides and brings a case to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2703	There is no doubt about the involvement of the Left in privacy in this room. Strong privacy is essential for individual freedom and democracy, and is a liberal core value. That's why we're in the Left on privacy. But privacy is under constant pressure. For example, according to the Data Protection Authority, Norway is now the most telemonitored nation in the world. It's just the British that are more monitored than we are. There is one trend. At the same time, the Internet has given a whole world the opportunity to communicate with each other. It's a unique opportunity we've never had before, but with it there are also challenges. Making sure that sensitive information about our privacy does not get out of hand is one of these challenges. It is also a fundamental right to be able to communicate anonymously. These include: For this reason, we in the Left have programmed that we will work to prevent the EU Data Storage Directive from becoming part of Norwegian law and, if necessary, use the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. We've made a choice on that, and we're on it. I will not extend the debate by repeating the many concerns raised by the Directive, except to note that the suspension contains a number of references to both the Data Protection Commission and the Data Protection Authority's recommendations regarding the Data Storage Directive. The left is behind these recommendations, which we think weigh very heavily. I would like to point out that the Left will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2717	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee would like to wait until the Government has dealt with the matter of the Data Storage Directive, and therefore proposes that the matter be annexed to the Protocol. The process associated with the Data Storage Directive has been long and demanding. There are many discussions on the scope of the Directive and on the consequences of the possible transposition of the Directive into Norwegian law. The government's policy platform tells us that the Data Storage Directive is a controversial issue for the Government. Citing from Soria Moria II: ‘The Working Party will implement the Data Storage Directive provided that no clear negative impact on privacy is identified in the investigation. The Socialist Left Party and the Centre will, for privacy reasons, oppose the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. SVs and SP State Councils and EEAS representatives shall be freely released in this matter.’;» In order to get the best possible basis for deciding whether to implement the directive in Norway, we will send cases on a public hearing. The storage of data, as proposed by the Directive, is the responsibility of both the Ministry of Transport, which is responsible for the Ecom Law, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, responsible for data protection law, and the Ministry of Justice, responsible for criminal proceedings. EEA relevance is naturally at home in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Departments are now working on a common newsletter. We have questions about who is responsible for that coordination. It's the Minister of Transport. The letter of hearing will include a review of the Directive and the framework for its national implementation. In addition, the letter of hearing will provide suggestions on how the Directive could possibly be implemented in Norwegian law. The Hearing Officers will be asked to comment on the views expressed in the Letter of Hearing, on issues related to the fight against crime and on privacy. We aim to get the case out on the public hearing as soon as possible. We want a broad hearing, where we want a three-month response period. After the public hearing, the Government will take a final decision as to whether or not the Directive should be implemented. The case will then, in case, be submitted to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. In Document No: The 8th proposal is also referred to the Commission's report. In the case of NOU 2009:1 Individuals and integrity, it was delivered to the Ministry of Renewal and Administration in January 2009. After this, the report has been on a wide loop with a hearing deadline at the end of August 2009. There have been many and extensive hearing responses. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration is now working on the report. They consider how the Commission’s various recommendations can be followed up. It's an extensive work. It would therefore hardly be possible to submit the report for discussion in Stortinget before proposing any implementation of the Data Storage Directive. However, the Government has noted the views of the Privacy Commission on the Data Storage Directive and takes these points of view into account in its work on the Hearing Note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2747	It might be a good idea to give a reflection first, and it seems that the parties have a fairly clear relationship, perhaps with the exception of one party, based on the contributions that have been made earlier in the debate. I want to challenge the State Council on whether the Data Protection Authority has been involved in the process in view of the consultation that is now underway. It's interesting to bring all the pages with you when you're going to send something out to the hearing. Despite the fact that I have received a response from the Council of State that they have been involved in the process, I have been confirmed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority that they perceive that they have not been part of that consultation process so far, and have not been given any input. So I would very much like the Council of State to explain what is the actual ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2754	It is right that the representative Hoksrud says that I have replied before that the Data Protection Authority has made a contribution to the work that a person is doing. The data controller will be a hearing officer on a line with others. So it's new to me that the supervision says they haven't been in the process. In this case, I have to make it possible to clarify something closer to the Data Protection Authority, in relation to what I have said. Of course, I am not interested in providing incorrect information to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2759	In the discussion before the case and in the case presented today, there has been some conflicting information as to when it can be expected that the hearing memo will be available. It has been promised before Christmas. Now the Council of State says that it will be available as soon as possible. My questions are: When will there be – will there be before Christmas? When can the Right receive answers to the questions asked in the letter dated 13 November? It is possible that the administrative law will also apply here, but will the response to the letter be available before the consultation draft expires?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2764	I don't see it as particularly conflicting information in relation to the hearing draft that we're working on. I mean to think that the foreign minister in the spontaneous question hour answered: before Christmas. I followed it up by saying that we have ambition: before Christmas. That's still our ambition. Fortunately, both Ingerd Schou and others here are aware that the note is clear when it's ready. That's what we're doing. That ambition is still established. So I used the expression that I did. So to the right: it is not the Minister of Transport who is the recipient of the message. But I am aware of the content, and I believe that the right will receive many answers when the newsletter is sent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2771	I understand that it is the Ministry of Transport that is the coordinating department. I have a question related to the constitutional. There are a lot of issues that the departments have to coordinate between themselves. But my question is, what department would that cause for the Storting? Will it also be the Ministry of Transport? That's one question. The second question I have concerns the process we're discussing tonight. Those of us who want to go against this directive will know if there are any good alternatives to implementing the directive when the cases are brought before the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2776	I'm asking for an understanding that I'm now sticking to the process in the government when it comes to a hearing note. The Hearing Note is the Minister for Transport who coordinates the work. There are three other departments in there. The question of who will be responsible for any final proposal, I will be allowed to come back to. In this case, there will be two propositions. What is called a – possibly – inclusion proposition is the practice for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible. The responsibility for the directive and any proposal in that context will be allowed to come back to me at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2783	I noticed that at the end of his speech the Council of State spoke about the Commission's report, and that one should take note of the views there in the work on the Data Storage Directive. It is a disappointing handling of the Commission's report. It's in our opinion to put things in the wrong order. In fact, the important thing must be that the Storting gets a big message based on the Privacy Commission's report. It is a fairly comprehensive report that has made quite clear recommendations and has also recommended the constitutionalisation of data protection in Norway. Our view is, of course, that the Stortinget should deal with it first, thus laying down the framework for directives – both data storage directives and other impossible and possible directives from the European Union to which we are going to deal. Why won't the Council of State do this in the right order, and let the Storting get a broad and good debate on the Commission's report first?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2790	It is right, as the representative Sortevik says, that there are many questions from the Privacy Commission that should be the subject of wider discussion. The dilemma is that this Commission's work has been on the phone, with the deadline of August, and there have been many extensive hearing replies. It might be very demanding to do this in the order requested by the Progress Party, with all that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2795	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2801	This gives me the opportunity to continue with what was answered. The question is, what is it demanding to do? Is it demanding that the Storting should have a thorough and good discussion of the position of privacy in Norway? That should be the lead. It should not be difficult to meet that desire. Or is that taking into account the deadline set by the EU? Now, if I have understood correctly, a number of countries have joined this directive, but not all. Now it is also true that Norway, without being an EU partner, EU member, is actually one of the best boys in the class to just implement directives coming from the EU. We don't have to be. And we do not have to be in the case of monitoring, no, data storage – that was a desired and clear delay – we see this as monitoring more than data storage. My point is that Stortinget unanimously went in to appoint the Privacy Commission. It has presented its report. It has clear recommendations, and not least a recommendation to strengthen data protection in Norway through its constitutionalisation. A unanimous increase should now demand that the Commission's report be dealt with in the Storting, and that it does so before we decide in any way what others are asking us to implement in our own country. The Progress Party has a clear and clear position on this directive. We understand from the past, and we also understand from the little debate that has been here tonight, that it is a difficult matter for SV, it is a difficult matter for the Center Party, it is at best an open case for parts of the Right. But it seems as if the Workers' Party has decided, quite clearly. The lot of progress is willing to use the right of reservation if necessary. We believe that any weaknesses in the Government's control mechanisms, which are one of the questions I know are posed by other parties, do not really need to be asked questions about, because they are already there today – when we look at how the Government handles access to, for example. data from tolling, obtained by tax authorities, and that Nav can check information in patient records without informing patients. This list I can do longer. There are a number of examples of today’s policy, guided by a majority from the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV, taking a clear approach to dealing with sensitive personal data. There is no security, on the basis that we are about to deal with a data storage directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2812	I notice that several of the representatives, especially from the Advancement Party, are trying to create the impression that the Government in this matter is not prepared for thorough and democratic treatment. It uses very large words, and it's also referred to 1814. It is to say that as the Council of State has now explained this to Stortinget, we can all feel very confident that this matter will be dealt with very carefully. A very systematic review by the Government is presented here. The matter is handled in an ordinary and thorough manner, and of course it is that the Storting will be invited and have the opportunity to discuss this matter in all ways, including those aspects that are so far raised in the matter that we now have to deal with. I want to say it so that, in a deep sense, this debate is about the necessity of organizing what I would call modern society. Because as the world changes, as technological development speeds up, so will, as we have seen, crime change. It's already happened. There are many examples of criminal environments being internationalised and a full use of modern infrastructure in society. But what does not change is the need to strike the balance between the two dimensions, as the former Minister of Justice of the Left, Odd Einar Dørum, put it well when he said: we need to find the balance between 'protection of citizens from State abuse and protection of citizens from other citizens' abuses'. I would like to say that it is attempted – quite wrongly in my opinion – to create the impression that this is about monitoring the Norwegian population. Any implementation of the Data Storage Directive will mean that traffic data, which is also stored today – for entirely different reasons – will be stored for a little longer than is the case today. It's not about, as tried to give the impression, the storage of the content of these data. No one will be able to see which website each individual has visited. The reason for the imposition is that the police should have access to such data when there are grounds for suspecting serious crime. I would like to make it clear here, already in this debate, that the Workers' Party will also be clear that there will be a requirement for judicial decisions in each case where traffic data is to be provided. Finally, just this: I want to say it so that I notice very clearly that the Progress Party, which in so many debates claims that they are the great law and order party in this country, does not listen to the clear wishes of the police and demands that this directive be implemented in Norwegian law in order to be able to cope with advanced international crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2827	I have been a lot in countries that were formerly characterized by communist regimes, with surveillance, silence, KGB, spying on colleagues and close family and the absence of elementary freedoms. This does something to people and degrades the quality of life. Not many in Norway know what it's like never to feel safe. However, when the Government wants to introduce the Data Storage Directive, we are at risk in Norway. In Germany, a study was carried out on how the implementation of the Data Storage Directive on the telephone changed people’s telephone habits. Half of those interviewed replied that they would now avoid using the telephone to get in touch with the psychologist and marriage counselor. In eastern Germany, two out of three would prefer not to use a telephone. In the last period, the Stortinget dealt with both the Biotechnology Act, the Health Register Act and the Health Personnel Act, where the Progress Party met both the need to maintain privacy and the need for a humane, effective society. Most of the decisions taken were supported by the Progress Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party. On the other hand, the EU Data Storage Directive does not contain such types of balances. The privacy here is completely compromised. I am not a follower of old Eastern Europe. If – I repeat if – it is that the Data Protection Authority and the Privacy Commission are not presented their views in a decent way to the Stortinget, then I have to ask myself: are we already in the old Eastern Europe under today's government? Criminals already know how to circumvent the Data Storage Directive and the police already have access to electronic traffic in case of specific suspicion. Those who will be exposed to this are most people, who lose much of their freedom, while criminals can go free. It is not necessarily that Norway automatically becomes a totalitarian society if the Government introduces the Data Storage Directive, but it will be a seven-mile step in the wrong direction – a direction that the Progress Party and I will fight against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2842	When the Progress Party today talks about Eidsvoll and draws parallels to Eastern Europe, I would like to remind you that as late as last summer the party defended snooping and searching in private homes without anything criminal happening in advance. In today's new eighteenth, the representative Solvency Horne rushed over the fact that the Minister of Justice had stopped the unconstitutional practice proposed by the Bondevik Government in 2005. In the same year, the Progress Party itself put forward proposals to oblige network providers to store traffic data for 12 months because it would provide the police with a tool to clarify serious crimes. Now the party has taken exactly the opposite position. In order to balance data protection against other considerations, the Progress Party is unable to adopt a position of principle, at least an opinion which does not expire after six months. The representative of Hoksrud showed in his contribution to figures from Germany, which allegedly shows that the percentage of clarification will increase from 55 pst. up to 55,006 pst. at the time of data storage. Such statistics are an important part of the argumentation against the Data Storage Directive. Eirik Trønnes Hansen and Jan Olav Frantsvold in the police lawyers have documented that the numbers are questionable and come from sources other than the opponents say. The number of 55,006 is not calculated by the German police, as it is claimed. It comes from a campaign organisation against the Data Storage Directive. Another number used, 0.002 pst., is supposed to come from the Max Planck Institute, but is not in any report from there. In both cases, electronic trace deletions are compared to the entire criminal statistics, ranging from bagging to gross violence. Then you figure out how many percent of all criminal cases that had missing electronic tracks. The method has an obvious source of error: the police only ask for electronic tracks if they expect such data to be available. It's like Rimi was going to look at the need for Sunday-open shops by looking at how many people are outside and knocking on a closed door. We need a debate on privacy. But the starting point can't be that privacy is a state, which we either have 100 pst. or do not have at all. The storage of traffic data does not in itself restrict the individual’s freedom. It is possible, necessary and it will be up to Stortingen to ensure that the Directive is implemented in a way that respects privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2851	I am a little surprised at the debate that we hear here in the Chamber, in particular that a party that makes it clear that they will wait for the investigation, for the hearing, before they conclude, today has such great opinions. I find it difficult to see that such an unhazardous instrument should be so horrificly effective. For a storage obligation is introduced and more data is to be stored than at present. It is that the storage time is longer, and that the purpose of the storage is new. The new thing is that the principle is that we are all potential criminals and that we must therefore be monitored. Today, all such controls are an alternative, and generally always an alternative with reasonable justification. Privacy is under pressure and technology enables surveillance. It can always be pointed to a good purpose in creating new rules, new control mechanisms. For the Central Party, living a life without supervision is a central right, just as we today send letters without anyone noticing who is sending the letter, or who is the recipient. Let's go further – because that's how it happens, step by step – there's nothing different than opening up unlimited camera surveillance for outdoors, schools, workplaces and kindergartens. The police will then be able to go to the courts and get access to this information. We could say, well, we don't do anything wrong, we have nothing to fear. Vidar Refvik, assistant police director, writes a chronicle about this in the December issue of the magazine Norsk Politik. I get the impression of having a fun attitude. He writes: ‘Variable, law-abiding residents of Norway may sleep safely at night when the Directive is introduced;’;» Yes, but there are incorrect questions and incorrect claims. What we have to ask ourselves is, is this how we don't want to sleep safely at night if we say no to the Data Storage Directive? We have to wait until the government has run its process, and I look at the Ministry of Transport's websites and see that there are a number of investigations, but I do not find a single investigation where the police and the judicial authorities document the need for this investigation. It's a good idea to have a plan. In the end, the representative Bjørnface draws out 709 IP addresses, and says this is about a lot of people. I must ask her to clarify whether she believes this is about 709 people, or whether there was no connection there. In fact, at least there are not 700 people behind these 709 IP addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2867	If I wanted to distribute child pornography, plan terrorist acts over the Internet or run Mafia activities, it would have cost me very little effort, and it could have been free to hide my business, even if the Data Storage Directive was implemented. Some batches produce the consequences of the Directive as almost negligible in relation to current practice. It's both a big contradiction and it's actually wrong. A few hours ago, about 10,000 people cheered out here for a president who runs a political system based on what they call "checks and balances". It does not help that the rulers have the best intentions or are kind and good, one must always have control mechanisms, counterpower and scepticism for those who rule. That's why we also have a completely free pulpit here on the Stortinget, so that the elected members of the People's Party can speak freely without fear of persecution from the government or the king. It's not because we mistrust the King or the Government, but because that's how power is to be distributed and controlled. So to resort to rhetoric of the kind "save only one child, it's worth it" is very problematic and brings down the level of debate. This is an invalid argument. We could all bring in our DNA and be required to go with electronic footlinks. We would have saved a lot of people from crime and violence. If we just tighten enough, we can actually get a society without crime. But, of course, we do not propose that. Therefore, this type of argument should not be relied upon. Our own and the European Data Protection Supervisors, experts on data protection in Norway and Europe, the Privacy Commission, all strongly oppose the directive. The European Commission says they do not know whether the directive has been effective and has launched an evaluation. Then I wondered about the slippery safety and the willingness to conclude very quickly, as some have. The serious international crime the representative of Kolberg aims to avoid all logging with simple means. We others will be monitored on a different and larger scale than is the case today. It takes a few minutes for the Data Protection Authority's information material to know this. Let us at least take the debate on the actual premises of the matter, and not dedramatize measures that are demonstrably an increased level of monitoring, compared to current practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2876	I still stick to the recommendations for the matter, namely that we should take the material treatment when the government had said its own. What makes me take the floor anyway was the representative Sortevik, who was concerned that this room should be presented with the Data Protection Commission's report, and would have it debated in the Chamber before we received the material and final processing of the Data Storage Directive. Then I think there are several reports we should have had in this room. I assume that the Government takes into account the report of the Privacy Commission, but also the report presented in June of this year by the Methodological Control Committee, which is a review of the secret police methods. This was discussed at Stortinget in 2004, and I was rapporteur on that matter. I have also spent a year and a half in the Methodological Control Committee, which has had a nine-time review and thorough work on the secret police methods – how they have been used, and what recommendations, adjustments, changes, corrections and restrictions are contained in the report of the Methodological Control Committee in relation to the methods introduced in 2004. I expect that the issues and recommendations contained in relevant reports and documents will be addressed in the course of the hearing and in the letter of hearing to be sent out, which will provide a good opportunity for various central authorities on both the privacy and crime and justice sides to shed light on the hearing and treatment. Then I assume that we will take the thorough and nitite debate when the Government has brought its own and the broad consultation has been carried out, and all relevant reports it has been possible to shed light on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2885	In Norway, police representatives argue, and now also from the Workers' Party, that the introduction of the EU directive is necessary in order to combat crime. As we have seen, the original justification of the EU directive is the fight against terrorism. It's something quite different. I notice that the head of the Police Union repeats the grounds for fighting crime. I also note that EuroCOP, an organisation in Europe in which the Joint Police Association is involved, believes that the directive will not have any effect, and points out, among other things. that criminals can easily avoid this as a measure. So it will be of little importance in the fight against crime. There are probably other measures to be taken, especially more money for policemen, so that they can solve crime. So back to what was also the previous speaker, the Privacy Commission. In our eyes, that report is quite special. It was a unanimous growth, after several different treatments triggered in the government's ICT message, which unanimously concluded that we would have this. We actually had several good fundamental debates about the position of privacy in Norway, given that many feel like us, that this position is threatened. It must then be reasonably correct for the Storting to have a broad and good debate on the recommendations made by the Data Protection Commission. They have made a number of recommendations in a variety of areas. For us, perhaps the most important thing is that they actually propose to legislate for privacy in Norway. We can find it difficult to understand that we should in some way be forced to decide on a data storage directive from the EU that the EU itself is gradually beginning to receive some reservations and reservations. That we should be pressured to implement and introduce this in Norway before we have taken our own national borderup related to privacy will be doing things in a fateful wrong order. We will strongly warn against that, and we will strongly recommend and encourage all other parties to be as unanimous in the order and not least in the processing of the Commission's report as it was when it was decided to appoint that Commission. We would like to discuss the recommendations that come from there, and that must be more important than adapting to the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2896	If there is one thing this debate has made visible, it is that the Progress Party has reversed its view of the Data Storage Directive. I would like to make it clear that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to have a very thorough debate on the directive. We're going to have that, and it should be based on knowledge and not on the degree of factual revelation that I feel the Progress Party is trying to do here. Bård Hoksrud said the clearance percentage is very low. Among other things, the Methodological Control Committee has looked at it, and they found that the stored traffic data was crucial for the result in 40 pst. of the cases where you chose to use that method. Blackvik was aware that we were about to have a surveillance community. Once again, I would like to make it clear that the directive will not allow the content to be transparent. It's just the storage of traffic data that we're talking about here. Jan-Henrik Fredriksen believed that this would lead to people avoiding using the telephone, but already today all the telephone calls we make are registered and stored, and they can also be handed over to the police. I cannot see the fundamental difference between the fact that this kind of information may be stored for five months today, and the directive may have to be stored for six or twelve months. So Sortevik said that the directive was originally to combat terrorism, and that was something quite different. There I cannot follow the representative at all. As the Labour Party and I see it, terrorism is one of the most serious forms of crime we have. Fighting terrorism must be fully legitimate. This was also the reason why the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights wanted the Stortinget to implement the directive in the previous period. Pollestad has not said that there were 709 people, but that there were many people who were not involved in the matter in question. But that was not my point either. The concern of the Labour Party, and my point, is that this is not an exceptional case. There have been many examples that because of the lack of rules, we cannot solve serious crime in Norway – most recently the case in Bodø, where the police asked for the Data Storage Directive. Then I want to give honey to the right. I think the Right has chosen a very good approach to the matter. They've asked good and thorough questions that I think will be important in the process we're going to have. Finally, I just want to say that there should not be a surprise for anyone that there is a disagreement between the three government parties in this matter. That's what we announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. I think we've all been pretty clear about what we mean, but we're all behind having a thorough consultation on this matter, and we're going to have thorough debates before the government makes a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2915	At least I have no doubt that the representative Bjørnflaten is very clear and clear on where she stands in this matter. I really don't understand why the Workers' Party wants the case to be heard. You don't have to, because you've really concluded what you're talking about. So the representative says the Bjørnface, and that's so far right, that today you shouldn't be able to go in and get access to the data. But where can this end in the future? I just want to show that it was the first time that you started taking pictures when you drove too fast. Now you take average measurement when you're driving too fast. You temporarily delete the pictures as soon as you have passed, if you have not driven too fast. But there are, with the arguments of the Labour Party representatives from this pulpit, constantly new reasons for further monitoring, further storage of information. The point is that it is not certain that it is dangerous today. But it could be that tomorrow is very dangerous, or it could be that the information tomorrow is being used completely opposite what they were actually going to be used for today. And that's the whole challenge of this data storage directive. I don't think we've seen the consequences if you now choose to go in for this. The representative Pollestad was very clear that if you want to eliminate crime, yes, there are opportunities for it. It's easy to do. But I don't think anyone in this room agrees that you should resort to that kind of monitoring. I am convinced that old people in the KGB, or Stasi, or what they are called, in old Eastern Europe, who were driving massive surveillance of their citizens, would be proud if they had got this directive in place. So here you can get all the information about who you have been talking to, who you have sent a message to, when you sent a message, and where you actually sent the message. So far, you can't know what's in the message, but I'm convinced that it's probably going to be "good to know" when we get a little bit further in time, when you hear the arguments of those who are in favour of it. It's actually like changing your position when you start seeing a development in society that you don't want. That's what we see now with this surveillance of people in Norway, which has done nothing wrong. I always thought you'd take it very easy. A few days ago, I discovered on the Internet that you are now being registered, and that information about different households is being stored. Now the car dealers can send their information to the household they want to be the one who buys the car, and not to the neighbor. You're marketing to whoever you want, to sell their products. This is happening to a great extent. It's a company that makes a lot of money on this. It is worrying, and that is what this is all about. Monitoring of individuals in Norway who have done nothing wrong, we will experience much more of it now, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2930	First, I would praise the President for the correct pronunciation of the name. It's getting better and better, and I'm really happy about that. There is a fundamental difference and a practical difference in current practice and imposed on data storage resulting from the directive we are discussing. It has to be unequivocally established, because that's the way it is, even if the opposite is claimed. This is not just a question of the period of data being stored, which in itself is not unproblematic, as one might get the impression. I have a right to pick up a phone without the authorities knowing where I am when I call and where the receiver is located. If one believes the opposite, the way is very short to use the exact same argument to justify also the storage of content. That's the problem of going forward in the way that some people do. Having said that, and I said that in a debate on this a few weeks ago in this Chamber as well, I believe that the presentation of parallels is drawn to North Korea and the Soviet Union, etc., perhaps first and foremost, is disrespectful to those who lived under these regimes. I also think that there is quite a diet towards the Workers' Party. This is a factual disagreement on the measures to be taken to combat serious crime and terrorism, and there is a clear difference of opinion, as announced in Soria Moria II. It's not often I quote the newspaper, because I don't think it's a very good newspaper, I have to say, but Andreas Wiese wrote something very wise in the newspaper for a while back, and that's the best answer so far to the constant headlines where single incidents of a criminal nature are brought forward as arguments for a directive. First of all, there's a little principle way to defend a law decision. Secondly, there is no legitimate way to argue, for as Andreas Wiese writes in Dagbladet: ‘If we all delivered our DNA samples, several serious crimes would be solved. Rapists would be arrested. And no one will believe badly about our police. But in 1937 no one knew who would rule Norway in 1942.» It's not to draw pompous historical parallels, but it's completely basic principles of how we distribute power and control over people in society. And I think we should take that much less lightly, at a time when we both voluntarily and involuntarily store all aspects of our lives on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2947	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1130]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2964	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2973	The size shall now deal with the issue of amendments to the Aquaculture Act. This law allows for the payment of new permits for salmon and trout. The Aquaculture Act does not provide for an absolute amount of the authorisation. This means that it is possible to increase the size of new permits beyond the level we have today. Nor does the law prevent the size of the current permit, i.e. increase of MTB, maximum authorised biomass. The law, however, does not provide the basis for today, is to charge for increasing the scope of an existing authorisation. The rationale for taking consideration is that when the breeder is granted a permit that can be sold and has a secondary value, it is reasonable that society, i.e. state, receive something back in the form of remuneration. This has happened in the past, in the granting of permits in 2002, 2003, 2006, in Finnland, and in 2009. This is also the case in case of an increase in the size of existing permits granted by the Government in 2010. In this context, I would also refer to statements by the FHL, one of the organisations of the aquaculture industry, where they also state that they do not see any fundamental difference in the sale of new concessions and sales of increased MTB volume, and that they therefore share the Government's view that remuneration should also be required for growth in the form of an increase in MTB. The majority of the Committee supports the proposed amendments to the Aquaculture Act and is amended to allow for the payment of increased production capacity under existing permits. I have recently registered that the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has decided to postpone the decision on capacity increase in 2010. State Council opinions have shown that the background to this is the information on the coastal salmon situation. I have also recorded that the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast has stated that she will make this decision in the spring, once she has been given a closer assessment of developments in the lice situation. I also point out that the majority of the Committee stresses that the growth of the aquaculture industry must take place within the framework of environmental sustainability, in line with the Government's strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. From the centre party, I would also like to stress the great importance of the farming industry for the creation of value added, employment and activity in coastal districts. Seafood production is one of Norway’s main export industries, and aquaculture represents more than half of the export value of Norwegian seafood. According to the Fish Export Committee, Norwegian seafood has exported 40.4 billion kroner this year, already started before December, thus setting a new export record. This corresponds to an increase of 15 pst. In November 2009 alone, salmon was exported for NOK 2.2 billion, an increase of 500 million. kr, measured against November last year. The marine industry is responsible for an annual value creation of DKK 18.5 billion. 10.8 billion of these are created by ring-effects in industries other than aquaculture. In total, the aquaculture industry generates over 19 000 annual works, including the supply industries. The main emphasis of these are located in small coastal communities, where aquaculture is the support column for settlement. The majority of the Committee supports the proposed amendments to the Aquaculture Act and is amended to allow for the payment of increased production capacity under existing permits. The majority of the Committee also subscribes to the proposal submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e2994	Since it is beginning to be late in the evening, I will do this quite simply: I can fully join the case rapporteur just said. She supported the facts of the case and had good arguments to support the legislative proposal that had been submitted. I would just like to highlight a few things that the rapporteur mentioned. What this is about is the possibility of being able to charge for the extension of MTB, the maximum authorised biomass, in existing farms. Where provision can already be made for the adaptation of production, a natural consequence should be that one can also assess the remuneration situation, especially in the case of new concessions. I think the reasons for the amendment are good and correct. I also think that the assessments that have to be made in any case need to be adapted according to the actual situation. I will end by making a brief comment on one of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is going to make in the matter. It is about whether we should – let us say – make limitations to the authority already granted to the government, through existing law. I think that would be strange, in the situation we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3003	The breeding industry is an important export industry for Norway and it is an important district industry. It is necessary to facilitate the growth and development of the industry, and the growth should be governed by the quantities available to the market. The most sensible regulation of the breeding industry is to replace the concession law with an approval system that says how much volume is allowed. We in the Progress Party do not support the Government's proposal to amend the second paragraph of Section 7 of the Act, which empowers the Ministry to claim compensation for the extension of existing permits in the breeding industry. This means that the industry is charged another excise duty, in addition to an already high tax burden. It is also unreasonable for the aquaculture industry, unlike other industries, to pay an additional tax to the country in order to increase its own output. The Progress Party supports the extension of the maximum authorised biomass by 5 pst, but opposes the proposal that the State should be able to charge for this increase in excess of what is in force within the ordinary tax system. In this context, the Progress Party will vote against the proposal to amend the Aquaculture Act. We will also vote against the proposals made by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3012	In some contexts it is claimed that size doesn't matter, but in this context it does. We have clarified the principles in the matter. As far as industry itself is concerned, consultations have shown that it is shared, but in principle most organisations support the proposal. One point is that by treating the remuneration of concessions and increased biomass in a non-discriminatory way, politicians, in the interests of the state fund, are releasing the discrimination between these two forms of growth. So you get rid of the industry a little bit more. It's an important principle for the Right. We don't see any fundamental difference in taking fees for increased biomass versus granted concession. What we're basically more sceptical about is steering this industry through a concession scheme that doesn't adapt to the market's need for increased production, fast enough. A regulation per location based on environmental sustainability would be a much better solution. Therefore, the right considers that the growth of the industry should be governed by the quantities available to the market. In addition, industry needs to be regulated in relation to the principles of sustainability and environmental considerations. We will claim that this is best taken care of if we leave the concession scheme and regulate the growth by giving each site an approval that shows how much MTB is allowed. This allows the industry itself to control production according to market and flexibility for rapid changes in volume, where necessary, and may increase volume where necessary. Another issue that has been raised in the last few days is environmental concerns and the problem of disease. In the interests of ecological sustainability, other species, industry's reputation and economy, it is important to be able to communicate reality. A good description of reality is a good starting point for a nuanced debate. I am absolutely sure there are people in the hall who could have thought of a more nuanced debate in the last few days. Because of the lice problem, the reported increase in MTB is delayed for some areas just after the book. But it is that other areas do not have to deal with such problems at all. Nevertheless, the debate temperature has caused the Minister to postpone the increase along the coast. On the right, there are two things that need to be put in place quite quickly and will continue to work on proposals on this. One is the previously mentioned change from concessionary to locality-driven quantity, and the other is to implement the management according to what is called the trøndelag model. Here, the Directorate of Fisheries was transferred from the Food Authority, the County Environmental Protection Agency and the Coastal Agency. This made all the processes around breeding much easier. In the Right’s view, it is fully possible to take all necessary environmental and sustainability considerations for all species, while exhausting rational and proper management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3027	This case applies to legal changes in order to be able to charge for increases in the maximum authorised biomass in current farming concessions. It is natural that society takes reasonable consideration when granted a concession for the commercial use of our common resource base. There's a lot of reasons for that. Nature to use - not consumed. That is why we need a good management and control regime. It is therefore reasonable to take consideration for rights that can be sold and that have a secondary value. But this case also gives us the opportunity to discuss the major challenges we face in the breeding industry. It is true, as many speakers have said here today, that farming is important for the Norwegian economy and too many jobs. However, the Committee places emphasis on Norway's special responsibilities in relation to the Atlantic wild species. It is now, after many see, threatened. The wildax population is at a low level, and many are afraid of it being lost. We are constantly receiving new messages about river fishing restrictions throughout the country, including in my home country. There are many reasons for this, but the farming industry must take some responsibility. The reduction in river fishing is very unfortunate, also for the nutrient base for tourism and tourism. The Committee points out, in its view, that environmental resilience is an element for the development of the industry, and the current situation is alarming. It is therefore important to monitor developments closely and to implement the necessary measures to prevent farming from becoming a burden on the environment. Here we have an important stewardship for our future generations. The industry has for a long time had problems with salmonnus. Despite a strong focus on this problem, we do not see the expected improvements. It's a development we didn't think is good. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government has looked at the warning of the increase in the maximum authorised biomass again, and postponed it until further notice. Any increase in biomass cannot occur until the lice issue and the requirement for environmental yield is under control. SV is strongly engrossed by the resilient management of our natural basis. It is for the farming industry to demonstrate its satisfaction with the requirement for bearer power. Without the problem of leaching being under control and nutrition being environmentally viable, there is probably no basis for increasing the authorised biomass.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3042	The Christian People's Party generally supports the amendment of the law we are dealing with today. We believe that there are good reasons to charge fees even in the case of increased production capacity for existing permits. When the breeder is granted an authorisation that can be sold and has a value in the secondary market, it is reasonable in our view that society will receive something back in the form of remuneration. The revenue from the remuneration relating to the new authorisations granted for the production of salmon, trout and rainbow trout in 2009 fell to the counties concerned. The Christian People's Party believes that it is natural that coastal states and municipalities entrusted with the essential tasks of administrative reform in the marine sector receive part of the revenue from the remuneration also by future increases in the production capacity of existing permits, and have therefore made proposals to that effect. Although the Christian People's Party supports the general change in law, we have always been against the Government's long announced increase in production capacity in the industry for next year. The reason is that the farming industry and the wild species are threatened by salmontus and that the increased quantity of farmed fish poses a risk of increased levels of salmontus. There are also major challenges to escape from farming facilities. The marine research institute has stated that if we do not have control of the salmon-puzzle, we can ‘opt a disaster for both the farming industry and our wild strains of salmon and sea trout’. The large farming industry in Chile is now severely weakened due to disease and lice. All State universities, as well as the Norwegian League of Hunters and Fishermen, Bellona, WWF and others, believe that a break in the increase in production capacity in the industry is necessary until the situation related to salmon, wild salmon and sea trout has come under control. Also the Christian People's Party has asked the Government to reverse, because the increased quantity of farmed fish poses a risk of increased levels of salmonmus. It is positive that yesterday the Minister for Fisheries finally gave the signal that she will follow the advice of the Christian People's Party and the professional team to freeze the permitted quantity of farmed fish at the current level for next year. However, it is striking that in the setting up of the Aquaculture Act, which was issued as late as Thursday last week, government party representatives are not critical of the Government’s planned increase in the number of farmed fish for the following year. On the contrary, writing works, for example: the red-green representatives: ‘It is positive that the Government commits to a controlled growth in the aquaculture industry and that it is envisaged that the growth should be taken out in the form of increased production capacity for existing permits’. This is probably a confirmation that the red-green guttering representatives are only slavishly following what the Government believes at all times. Nor has the Minister of Fisheries given any indication of any further action. She says in Today’s Business yesterday that she feels ‘fully confident that the industry will be able to cope with the situation’. It seems passive in a situation where the marine harvester in today's business even asks for basic structural measures by the authorities, which go far beyond freezing the amount of farmed fish for next year. This is probably an example of a government that is behind various environmental policies. Since we also heard the debate in the previous case, we can understand some of the reasons for the lack of action. The Christian People's Party believes that it is essential that the Government does not hesitate to initiate the slaughter of lice infected fish to stop the lice spread when there is a professional basis for it. It is about the reputation and opportunities of the farming industry for profitable and sustainable production in the long term, and it is about avoiding the eradication of wild breeds and sea trout in Norway. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3071	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3074	The Government proposes in Prop. 18 L to amend the Aquaculture Act so that additional production capacity for existing permits for salmon, trout and rainbow trout can be paid. In 2001, the then Breeding Act was amended so that it would be possible to charge for new salmon and ear allowances. This has continued in today's legislation. The reason for taking consideration is that when the breeder is granted an authorisation that can be sold and has a value in the secondary market, it is reasonable that society should receive something back in the form of remuneration. New permits have been granted since 2002. The same considerations apply also in the case of an increase in the size of existing permits. The proposal implies that, in the same way as remuneration for new permits, it will be possible to charge for increased maximum authorised biomass. In practice, this opens up an alternative capacity-enhancement approach in addition to the granting of new permits. In its position, several aspects of the framework conditions of the aquaculture industry are affected in addition to the legislative proposal. I would therefore like to make some comments on these proposals. Initially, I would like to clarify that the question of how to use the remuneration is assessed in the context of the individual allocation round and the state budget in question. It is open to municipalities to charge taxes on property in the sea. In the 2009 allocation round, Appendix 3 million is transferred. kr per. permit to the counties in question – a total of up to 195 million. kr. When we, as now for 2010, propose to increase production capacity without granting new permits, there is a change in the framework conditions for existing permits. The situation in 2009 and 2010 is therefore not comparable. The government aims at a moderate growth in the production capacity of salmon and trout tops in 2010. The growth shall be taken in the form of 5 pst. increased MTB on existing permits. Environmentally sustainable production is a prerequisite for long-term development and growth in the aquaculture industry. The environmental situation is today such that there should not be growth at all points along the coast. In a proposal the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has been consulted, therefore, about 20 pst. of all sites exempted from capacity expansion in 2010, inter alia: because of the leachus situation. In the light of recent developments in salmon industry, I have decided that we will postpone the 2010 decision on the implementation of the capacity extension to the spring – until we have a better overview of the situation and time to assess the issue in more detail. For proposal No 3, from the Christian People's Party, I would like to inform you that we already have legislation that allows the Food Authority to impose the slaughter of salmon infected with salmon. On 18 August of this year the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast adopted a new regulation to combat lice. This Regulation authorises the Food Safety Authority to impose a number of measures on farmers whose own measures are not sufficient to comply with the requirements of the Regulation. Food surveillance may impose the necessary measures to prevent the further spread of salmonillus, including the depopulation of salmon. In addition, the Food Authority may establish its own control zones with stricter requirements. To the representative of Håbreek: The Food Authority has already imposed depopulation in some areas. I have full confidence that the Food Safety Authority will follow the situation closely and – based on professional judgement – now use the means at their disposal to ensure acceptable management of the salmon situation. Then the representative, Bakke Jensen, is right in saying that the discussion in the public space is not very nuanced. As regards the previously mentioned postponement in the decision on future growth, I am also aware that there are areas that are not affected by lice. But what also largely characterises these areas is that they are not currently fully exploiting the MTB they already have. So there are probably other areas on the coast that have been more concerned with increasing MTB than at least some of the luxuriant areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3110	This is an industry that employs many people – we have heard 19 000 annual works – and often in small districts where job offers are relatively marginal. We're talking about the second-hand market. That's possible, but you don't really know if it exists. When you look at the 2010 budget, you'll see that it's set to enter 360 million. kr. If you divide by the number of annual works, it's going to be a pretty big sum per. annual work. Is not the Council of State concerned that this is so much, in addition to other taxes and taxes, that it may be a handicap to industry, and that it may be more difficult to compete on the international market to sell its goods, that we are therefore commended for the costs, taxes and taxes that we impose on this industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3117	This consideration we are now talking about as a levy, or a tax, is payment to the community in order to exploit a limited resource that breeders operate in general. I think it's reasonable for society to get something back when a breeder gets an increase in production capacity for their permits. There are questions about whether there is a second-hand market here. I can at least sign that there is, at least occasionally, a little depending on who is on the trade round. We have a long experience that some of these permits that have been granted in the past have been priced very high. I also think it makes sense in relation to the industry's place in the social debate that one contributes to the community in the way that one does here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3124	This is an industry that is very important to the districts. Could it be, as a small game of thought, that if you could use a more nuanced view of the coast and keep open the increase in areas that are not as environmentally-congested as some other areas are – could it be an incentive for the industry to move part of its operations to areas that are currently less environmentally-congested? My question to the Council of State is: Could it not be beneficial to keep open the areas where you tolerate the increase today, to move some of the activity there, and then avoid stress on more vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3131	To put it that way, I think there are quite a number of people who want to move to those areas already today. Then we have rules that limit it. The permits given over the years have had a geographical spread that I think is wise to continue. As for the break I have taken in the evaluation now, I will of course look carefully at the areas that have not been affected by this lice problem. So looking at shades there can be an answer. I assume that the farming industry is now taking the responsibility that they have to clean up the loop problems, so that the whole coast becomes such that we can carry out the growth planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3138	I am pleased that the Council of State now agrees with the wish for a more nuanced debate. I think that both the farming industry and the environmental interests over time will be served. It must be noted, however, that there is no good contribution to a nuanced debate when the government indicates that one must wait as long as one takes clear, professional advice for intelligence, which has been the case with the increase in MTB. But once the situation is as it is, my two questions to the Council of State will be: Does today’s situation show that we have taken too little account of the precautionary principle in the management of the breeding industry? And question 2: Should, over the years to come, greater emphasis be placed on the precautionary principle in the policy towards the farming industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3145	I think the situation we're seeing now is about things having gone very well for a very long time. With regard to the lice situation on the coast, we've had drugs that have worked in terms of leaching, and they've worked very well. It's been detoxification very often, and we've had resistance problems. It should probably have seen both industry and others before. Some have notified it, but we probably have not taken it well enough into consideration. In this way, I agree with the representative, Mr Håbreek, that we must learn from this at least. That's what I'm very concerned about. I had two days ago -- maybe it was yesterday, the days are getting so long that it feels a long time ago -- a meeting where we discussed principles related to how to view lice as an example of a different approach. I'm not sure about it with the mean number of lice per. fish are a good measure of the situation. In the light of that and other discussions, I will certainly contribute to a discussion to see if we can have a different thinking regarding both lice problems and other problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3154	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3159	It was the representative of Håbreek who made me take the floor, because he said that the red-green Slavic follows the government. How the representative Håbreck defines the word ‘slavish’, I don’t know, but at least I would stress to Håbreck that I don’t feel like ‘slave’ in any way. On the contrary, I would like to stress that I am a very satisfied representative of big business, which is part of the government's parliamentary basis – and that is a very interesting life. I can recommend Hope once to try just that. The question that lies in the proposals of the Christian People’s Party is who will rule. Now it is the law that states that it is the Government and the Ministry that will govern – the Government’s production volume and the Ministry’s remuneration. But the Christian People's Party must decide what they want. Either it has to be that one gives a power from this hall, or one has to make sure we don't delegate it from this room. The lot must somehow try to decide. Once one has decided to delegate a responsibility to a government or to a department, it must be such that the Storting controls the mandate given and does not come up with such half-sweeped powers as the Christian People's Party makes through its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3166	The President would like to stress that the word 'half-hearted' is not a very good word to use in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3169	At the end of the debate, I would like to make a few brief comments on – naturally – the last article. It is right that when the Storting delegates powers, it should be respected. But it is the responsibility of Stortingen to ensure that the laws and the leadership that Stortingen has sent with these powers with the Government are actually respected. When the technical advice is so clear on what should be done, not least when the technical advice is so dramatically linked to what kind of consequences we can now face – I am thinking in particular of the situation of the wild species, the eradication of the wild species, and we would like to refer to what else was said in this Chamber, what has been said in the course of the discussion of not least the notification of the bigotry, what was said in the decision on new natural diversity laws, as the Stortinget did in June – it is a very great responsibility for the government to manage the powers that are given, in line with sustainable development, in line with the diversity of species; to take care of the diversity of species. As I also said in my post, I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries has now come to the conclusion that a break in the assessment related to MTB is taking place. I note that there are still very open wordings about what will happen next, that there are open wordings about how this should be assessed, and the recognition of the seriousness of the situation has still not come far enough. That is why I believe that there is reason to promote the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind, and it is in line with the overall responsibility of the Stortinge, to manage the laws that we are responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3178	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3182	First of all, I regret the use of the word 'half-grazed'. I meant to say that it was difficult to get what the Christian People's Party actually meant in this case. So it's like giving control signals actually does the government parties in this case. We write very clearly in our majority comment – we stress – that ‘the growth of the aquaculture industry must take place within the framework of environmental sustainability, in line with the Government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry’. No clearer control signal can be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3189	Now both the Minister of Fisheries and the Coast has explained what the Government is actually doing. The representative of Terje Aasland has also done so. I just want to repeat to Håbreek what the Minister for Fisheries and Coast said, namely that in the autumn the Government adopted its own lice regulation, where the Food Authority has the power to impose treatment, set-aside and, in the utmost consequence, depopulation where there is disease in this industry. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has also said that she has decided to postpone the 2010 decision on the capacity increase to spring. Thus, it is very clear what the Government of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is doing, namely to take into account – I stress this – that the growth of the aquaculture industry will take place within the framework of the environment, in line with the Government’s strategy. This is what the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is now stressing, and this is the balance that the Government is committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3198	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3215	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3224	In the absence of the rapporteur, I will keep her posts and speak the case of the Christian People's Party in the matter we now have to deal with. Furthermore, it appears from the opinion that, in addition to the comments made, the Committee does not have any comments but refers to the notification and urges the Council to attach the notification to the Protocol. Fishing agreements with other countries are of great importance as Norway shares fishing resources with many countries. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a broad political consensus that Norway should be an active driver in the fight against illegal fishing, and is concerned that Norway must continue to give high priority to this work. We appreciate the fact that through the tripartite agreement of 15 May 1999 between Norway, Iceland and Russia, the so-called Smutthull Agreement, the Norwegian and Russian authorities have succeeded in putting an end to the non-regulated Icelandic fisheries on regulated stocks in the international area of the Barents Sea. Last year, a Joint Nutrition Committee pointed out that the common fisheries policy of the EU has been unsustainable. Policies have been consistently characterised by high, non-sustainable quotas, weak regulation and lack of enforcement and penalties. The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) provides substantial subsidies for the construction of new and more modern fishing boats, which help to sustain the overcapacity of the EU fleet. All this is happening despite the fact that international marine scientists and environmental organisations have long pointed out that EU policies need to be changed and that fishing needs to be reduced in order to become sustainable. The result of this policy is that nine out of ten fish stocks in the EU are overfished and that the Union has one of the world’s most profitable fishing industries. Due to the failure of populations in their own waters, the EU enters into fisheries agreements, inter alia. with poor countries under conditions that are very unfortunate both from a development perspective and from a marine environment perspective. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must focus to an even greater extent than is the case today on the draft policy that the EU is pursuing within its fisheries in the context of new agreements. Much of the fish taken up in the EU zone as a by-catch and thus thrown out again is dead. The Christian People's Party believes that this is an unfortunate practice that must be brought to an end if we are to have a sustainable fishing industry over time with large and strong populations. The Christian People’s Party is concerned about the very serious situation that has arisen for Norwegian mackerel fishermen, after the EU has closed them off from fishing in the EU zone without notice or justification and thus set aside the bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU. The Christian People’s Party believes that Norway should not exclude any instruments in the situation that have arisen, nor the possibility of shutting down EU fishing boats from Norwegian waters. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote. Negotiations between Norway and the EU on the bilateral agreement for next year have also been broken. The Christian People's Party underlines the need for the Government to give high priority to reaching agreement with the EU on mackerel management and next year's fishing in a way that serves Norwegian fishing interests. The EU has adopted a regulation prohibiting trade in cell products. It should be noted that the EU also considers it to be EEA-relevant. This results in a total ban on the sale of cell products to the EU, thus tearing away much of the nutrient base of the self-employed. This gives cause for concern, as there is an obvious correlation between the number of seals and the size of fish stocks. The Christian People's Party appreciates that Norway, together with Canada, has appealed to the WTO about the EU regulation on trade in cell products.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3245	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3248	The background to this case is the annual submission of a communication on the fisheries agreements concluded with other countries by Norway. This Communication addresses the 2009 quota agreements, Norwegian participation in multilateral fisheries cooperation and regional management organisations. The notification also sets out the population calculation, advice, state reports and long-term management plans for the main populations shared by Norway with other countries. The notification also mentions the control measures put in place in Norway’s economic zone to control Norwegian and foreign fishing on allocated quotas, as well as the control cooperation with other countries and measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Finally, this Communication provides an overview of the extent to which Norwegian and foreign fishermen used their quotas in 2007 and 2008 and the groups fishing on the quotas held by Norway in the zones of other countries. In this matter, an overall committee has shown that the fisheries agreements with other countries are of great importance, as Norway shares the fishing resources with many countries. In this case, the Committee has referred to illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is a significant challenge for sustainable fisheries management and which is negative for the stock, the marine ecosystem, the fishing industry and management. The Committee also points out that Norway is an active driver in the fight against IUU fishing and is concerned that Norway needs to give high priority to this work. In addition, the Committee points to the disagreement between Norway and the EU as regards the management of mackerel and underlines the need for the Government to give high priority in order to reach agreement with the EU on this management in a way that serves Norwegian fisheries interests. This has proved to be a very demanding debate over the past few weeks. The EU has chosen to break the negotiations on fishing for mackerel in the EU zone. In addition, the EU has chosen to break negotiations with Norway on a fisheries agreement for 2010. One consequence of the breach is that Norway and the EU do not set total quotas for the North Sea and Skagerrak joint stock. Norway and the EU have negotiated a bilateral fisheries agreement for 2010, even without results, for many laps in the autumn. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, emphasises in its note that Norway should give priority to the work of the European Union and other nations. Furthermore, this minority points out that Norwegian fishing interests depend on long-term agreements, both in the interests of sustainable management and the economy. I see that this is precisely what has been part of the goal of the negotiations with the EU. The Minister for Fisheries confirms in a press release in connection with the break in negotiations that ‘Norway has been concerned with the stability and predictability of mackerel fishing’ and that ‘a long-term agreement with fixed allocation and mutual zone access’ is sought. Then I would say something about sales, but the representative who spoke on behalf of the case rapporteur spoke very well about it. The majority of the Committee, composed of the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, also demonstrate that there is a major report on Norwegian marine mammals under consideration in the Stortinget and that Norway is following its international obligations to international cooperation in the research and management of whales by participating in the International Whaling Commission, IWC, the North Atlantic Maritime Animal Commission, NAMMCO, and the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3271	Fishing agreements are very important for Norway and show that good agreements need to be facilitated. It is necessary to provide a good overview of the follow-up of agreements and their impact on the Norwegian fishing industry. Most agreements in Norway have been concluded in recent years, but there are some serious exceptions, such as: the situation arising from mackerel fishing. Although the agreement with Norway on mackerel fishing with the EU clearly states that Norwegian fishermen have the right to fish their remaining quotas in EU waters, Norwegian fishermen have been excluded. The failure to reach an agreement in this matter shows the importance of ensuring good agreements that provide predictability for the industry. It is important for Norway to give priority to the work of contract agencies, including: with the EU. However, it is not a good approach to this issue to assess the exclusion of EU fishing boats from Norwegian zone. In the case of new fisheries agreements with the EU, it is important to focus on the draft policy, which the EU practices in its fisheries. This is a practice that should end if a sustainable fishing industry is to be based over time. Norwegian fishing industry depends on the conclusion of agreements with other countries providing for foreseeable framework conditions. The conditions surrounding mackerel fishing show that this must have consequences for subsequent fisheries agreements. With regard to the proposal of the Christian People's Party, we will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3282	Norway shares fish resources with a number of countries. The agreements we conclude with these are therefore of great importance both in terms of economics, stock control and sustainable fisheries management. The message is a review of many current agreements. The status of negotiations with the EU these days not only shows us the importance of good agreements, but it should also remind many of the politicians that Norway is a small country in a quite large world. The results of the contractual negotiations can sometimes be seen as a temperature measurement of Norway’s relations with other countries. It is worth emphasising in such a debate. The experience we have with Russia and the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission shows in an excellent way that projects involving both politicians, bureaucrats, researchers and businessmen are people-to-people cooperation at a high level. Good processes also raise awareness and understanding of the culture of other peoples. The challenges of the agreements stem from country-to-country control agreements, fisheries agreements in other countries' zones, agreements for the exchange of fishing rights and agreements for the control and regulation of fishing activities of their own and those of other countries. The difference in the way Norway and the EU view this with draft fish shows the complexity of the matter. That is why good processes are important. In fact, our goal of sustainable taxation depends on our being able to have good processes in this kind of contract negotiations. There is a lot of evidence that large fish stocks such as mackerel, herring, sieving and cod, among other things. due to temperature changes in the sea, changing its migration pattern. This poses a major challenge for Norway in negotiating agreements that ensure the long-term viability of the fleet, sustainable management, transparency of take-offs and the ability to control foreign fishing vessels. The disagreement between Norway and the EU on access to the EU zone for our mackerel fleet is an example of the fact that existing agreements are not always good enough. Another moment is Iceland’s application for EU membership and its forthcoming treatment. The role of Iceland as an important fishing nation will also affect these agreements in the future. This very year, this is worrying because for the first time in many years, we have needed access to fishing mackerel in the EU zone. This is because the mackerel has changed the migration pattern. First, Iceland started fishing mackerel in its own zone, and then the Norwegian mackerel fleet was denied access to the EU zone, despite the fact that Norway’s understanding of the current agreements gave the fleet the right to do so. Once the EU has broken fisheries negotiations with Norway, the EU shows muscles, and it is a powerful signal of what can wait for Norway in the future. There may be reason to wonder whether the EU and Iceland are joining Norway this time. One may not have to be very conspiratory to fear that Norway may be left with the beard in the mailbox, especially if Iceland becomes an EU member. It is my wish that the Minister of Fisheries and EU-affiliated Mr Berg-Hansen set his back on the Government and demand that Norway take the EU seriously. The agreement on mackerel fishing and the new role of Iceland show that it is particularly important that Norway prioritises the work of a network of agreements with the EU and with other nations. Norwegian fishing interests depend on long-term agreements, both in the interests of sustainable management and in the interests of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3303	There is quite a lot of agreement on the essence of this matter, so I shouldn't repeat all the sensible things that have been said by former representatives from this pulpit. What I still want to say is that one of the essence of this matter is that there is a challenge in caring for the resource base of the common fisheries resources that do not know borders. The message we received from the Government just shows that the Government has a very good hand in setting up the necessary agreements with neighbouring countries, so that we can take care of an important resource base, both manage future resources and get a sensible economy in the fishing industry. But what I also want to say is what has now happened to the breach of the EU. What we're going to notice there, which is a very unfortunate consequence, is that this does not result in total quotas being set for Skagerrak and the North Sea. I would say that this is a blatant example of how little the EU takes seriously the common resource base for fish stocks in common waters. There should be a warning for those who are so happy to cooperate with the EU when it comes to full membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3312	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with what the representative Lillian Hansen said in his statement. It was a thorough account of what kind of case this is. Fishing agreements with other countries are very important as Norway shares fish resources with many countries. We know that the fishing industry is very important to us, as we also pointed out in the previous case. Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a significant challenge for sustainable fisheries management and is negative for the stocks, the marine ecosystem, the fishing industry and management. The centre party points to Norway as an active driver in the fight against this illegal fishing, and we are concerned that Norway still has to give high priority to this work. In this context, I would like to point out that Norway has concluded a number of control agreements with countries in Europe, Africa and North America, stressing the importance of these agreements in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. The Central Party points out that through the tripartite agreement of 15 May 1999 between Norway, Iceland and Russia on certain cooperation relations in the field of fisheries, the so-called Smuttull Agreement, the Norwegian and Russian authorities have succeeded in terminating the non-regulated Icelandic fisheries on regulated stocks in the international area of the Barents Sea. This is very important in order to have sustainable development in this industry in this area. It's getting very late in the evening, so I'm not going to go further in the presentation. I just want to show that the government has submitted a big message about Norwegian marine mammals policy, which is being treated in Stortinget, and we look forward to the treatment of this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3327	I have a little voice left – it's starting to be very late for me. I will begin by stressing that sustainable resource management is a central objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations we conduct with other countries each year. At the same time, I am responsible for caring for Norwegian interests, which has been particularly demanding this autumn. I've read the Committee's configuration, Innst. 92 S, with interest and must say that the Committee's comments show that we share the objectives of sustainable management. The Committee also addresses the problems of the harvest in the mackerel case. I will first briefly discuss other parts of our negotiations, but will spend most of my time at this autumn's events. The fight against illegal fishing has been central in the negotiations with Russia for several years, and we have also worked on this issue on several other fronts. We've achieved a lot, and I'm glad that this problem is reduced by over 80 pst. in recent years. However, we will not relax in this matter and, as the Committee points out, will continue to give priority to this work. The cod in the Barents Sea is in very good condition, and the quota in 2010 is 607,000 tonnes – an increase of 16 pst. The other stocks are also in good condition, to the delight of Norwegian fishermen. We have been developing close and good cooperation with the EU for several years. On the control side we have got a lot in place, and last year we agreed on many measures to reduce drafts. In order to demonstrate the breadth of the fisheries negotiations we conduct bilaterally, multilaterally and globally, we have extended Chapter 2 of the Communication with a detailed description of the matters on which we have focused most and to make the results visible. So for the autumn events: the Committee refers to the disagreement between Norway and the EU on mackerel. As you know, the EU stopped Norwegian fishing for mackerel in the EU zone on 1 October this year. We believe this was a breach of the bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU, and have had many meetings and contacts both at political and official level to resolve the matter. We have been negotiating continuously in recent months to find good solutions, and I will not hide that it is and has been demanding. Unfortunately, we have failed to agree. I believe Norway has gone a long way in reaching an agreement, but it was not possible to put in place more important elements. For us, it was essential to have an agreement that was completely unambiguous, so that we did not experience unexpected reactions or fishing stops next year. This element is part of the bilateral agreement with the EU. As in previous years, the exchange of allowances was very demanding. In short, we could not participate in an allowance exchange that did not give us satisfactory payment for the cod. We therefore stand without both a mackerel agreement and a bilateral agreement per. the date of issue. This is regrettable and has consequences for both Norwegian fishermen and fishermen in the European Union. Our fishermen cannot fish in the EU zone and EU fishermen cannot fish in Norwegian waters. However, I believe that EU fishermen need more access to the Norwegian zone than vice versa. I cannot now say what the result of this situation is, but I can promise that Norway wants an agreement with the EU that puts our problems behind us. Our starting point is to reach an agreement with which both parties see themselves worthy. Although we are now without an agreement, I would like to stress that Norway will act responsibly and base scientific advice on the setting of Norwegian quotas for fishing in its own zone. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the good dialogue with the fishing industry that we have. You are part of the Norwegian negotiating delegation. That cooperation is invaluable in the negotiations. Another challenge is the upcoming quadruple negotiations on the management of mackerel, which will start in March next year. The four parties are the original coastal states of Norway, the EU and the Faeroe Islands. In addition, Iceland is now invited. It is very important that we arrive at a distribution and a regulatory framework that ensures that the total harvesting of mackerel takes place within a sustainable framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3361	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3365	In the previous case, there were taxes and taxes we talked about, that the majority here in Stortingen is now going to give the industry 360 million. kr more in taxes and taxes in 2010. In this case, an agreement is in a way to ensure that the industry gets approx. NOK 1 billion less in export income, which has occurred in just three months – October, November and December. Then you can ask the question if the agreement we had was too bad. Was it too vague, or was it the EU that kind of tricked us? Can the Council of State say a little about how pleased the Council of State was with the agreement we had?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3372	The government and I also believe that the agreement we had was not unclear. We have been very clear that what the EU did by closing the EU zone for Norwegian fishermen was a clear breach of this agreement. I am very sorry for the situation that has arisen, and as I said in my post, I have used a lot of energy to get this back in place. We didn't do that. In the case of the loss that is estimated here, I will not go into the amount of the heads. But what we've been telling Norwegian fishermen about is that the quota they haven't taken up this year, we're transferring to the next year, at least, so that the amount of catch won't be lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3379	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1131]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3390	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3421	In the course of the debate, 39 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34–39, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3487	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–33 – except for proposals Nos. 11 and 28 – from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3701	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 28, from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3727	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8 – except for proposals Nos. 1 and 3 – from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e3775	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e5659	The Committee's position on I-XII is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party. The right has announced that they will now support the suspension subsidiaryly after their primary framework proposal has not been endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e5674	The President will return to a correction in XXIII before voting on the remaining chapters. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e5832	The President will draw attention here to a correction in XXIII – ‘number of passengers’ shall be ‘number of flight movements’. It is the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party that supports the motion for a resolution under XXIII-LII, and the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6565	The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the motion for a resolution of the vote, and the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6581	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6635	During the debate, Mr Voessken has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6678	During the debate Bård Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that laws and/or regulations relating to the fundamental issues raised by the EU ‘data storage directive’, including the Commission’s report, be submitted to the Stortinget for full discussion before implementation can take place.’; Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6705	During the debate, Øyvind Håbrek has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6726	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposals will be entered on the agenda as separate items in a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6751	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6764	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6778	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6787	During the debate Øyvind Håbrek has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider using all instruments in the dispute with the EU, including shutting down EU fishing boats from Norwegian zones.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-10.ana.ud347e6822	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
