ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e32	The representatives of Laila Davøy, Inger S. Enger and Trond Lode, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The former deputy representative of the More and Romsdal counties, Svein Gichleth, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e54	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 27 March 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on March 27, 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is decreed: Prime Minister's Office State Secretary Liv Monica Stubholt is pardoned. Political adviser Sigrid Hjørnegård is appointed State Secretary for State Council Terje Riis-Johansen in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Secretary Kjell Erik Øie is pardoned. Political adviser Lotte Grepp Knutsen is appointed State Secretary to the State Council Anniken Huitfeldt in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e86	Unfortunately, today's interpellation has become more topical than we had imagined. In the wake of what has happened in Tromsø, it has been written and said a lot in the media. Some have called for more institutional places and more coercion. There have been central politicians who have said that they are afraid to go on the street, fearing that someone will ‘click’. In a press release, the Association of Psychologists recently pointed out that «Dang» is not a diagnosis. It is very important that such events do not bring us back as a society. This must not lead to an increase in prejudice and stigmatisation of mentally ill people. This can lead to people being reluctant to seek help, and thus not getting the help they need. Nearly 50 pst. the Norwegian population suffers from mental illness during their lifetime. Of these, it's 10-15 pst. with severe mental disorders. The most common disorders are anxiety and depression. Some very few are dangerous and need specific measures, both to protect them from themselves and to protect the environment. Openness about mental disorders and the reduction of large institutions were important objectives of the Roadmap for mental health in 1998. Most people remember the situation at the end of the 1990s. A number of people were misplaced, and the big message that was the forerunner of the escalation plan said: ‘In hospital departments, there are a large number of patients who should be in other types of departments, and in long-term institutions there are a large number of patients who primarily need municipal care.’ In the evaluations of the en route escalation plan during the planning period, it was found that the lack of migration prevented more sites from making better use of resources, including: was the main challenge for hospitalisation, to have the right type of spaces available in relation to the individual patient’s needs. In other words, we need both long-term and short-term places, and not least better municipal services. I assume that the final evaluation of the escalation plan will soon be available, and I fear that even after ten years there will be a lack of conversion that has been most demanding to achieve, and that there is still much to be done. I would also like to refer to the report by the State Health Authority on the many crimes committed at the district psychiatric centres. Health Director Lars E. Hanssen recently said to TV 2 that it is a very serious finding that can go beyond life and health. When conversion takes place, it is important to ensure that it is carried out in a sound manner. At the same time, when something is put down, something better needs to be built up somewhere else, so that the individuals affected – mainly the patients, but also the employees and not least the relatives – do not suffer. Just before Christmas I traveled an interpellation about just that. The situation does not continue to be the case, for example: on Blåberlia in Health Bergen loose. Two days ago, this institution was once again on TV news. This is an offer for young people who are very ill. Professionals and relatives are very concerned. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the Council of State may allow treatment sites to be closed without equivalent or better provision for these patients, so that the relatives and those concerned are safe. It has not happened in this case, nor in other cases, as we have examples of. That is why I have to ask the Council of State once again to ensure that nothing is put down until an alternative offer is in place. Here you also need to use the opportunities to talk to relatives, talk to them – the relatives and the patient. User intervention must become more than one word. In this case, there's no security for the future, what I'm familiar with. In the work on the escalation plan, it was emphasised that developing cultures and attitudes with a focus on the user perspective, mastery perspective, overall, cooperation and focus on local-based mental health work was an important challenge for regional health businesses. This emphasis must not be impaired as a result of the statements made in the media during the last few weeks. Rather, on the contrary, I welcome the Council's response to how this will be communicated and taken care of in the future. We must not end up with demands for more use of coercion as a strategy in the future, for example. because the use of coercion in Norway for some is actually a violation of fundamental human rights. Unfortunately, figures from SINTEF Health published in February of this year show an increase in the development of coercive agents and shielding between 2001 and 2007. 39 pst. more patients in mental health protection were subjected to coercive measures and screening in 2007 than in 2001. It is also found that there are considerable differences between hospitals in the use of coercive drugs. In recent years, the means of reducing coercive use have been to expand municipal health work, to create outpatient crisis teams and emergency teams. That's great. However, when the desired reduction in forced use has not been achieved, it indicates that this conversion has gone too slowly. Clearly, a clear strategy must be put in place to achieve such a conversion anywhere. Another reason is also referred to when looking at the lack of reduction in the use of coercion in relation to the objective. There are cultural differences. At this point, too, I welcome the measures taken by the Council of State to reduce cultural differences between hospitals and areas in our country. For some places, they have managed to reduce the use of coercion significantly, while elsewhere, it has increased almost. There is still a great deal of work to be done to ensure comprehensive patient treatment, so that mental health services appear to be seamless, and we know that the Council of State is also concerned about this. We know there's a lot left to get more psychologists in the municipalities. It must also be committed to a multidisciplinary offer. It is particularly important to develop lowthreshold services so that those with mild mental disorders can get help quickly, but there must also be lowthreshold services for those with severe disorders, where the focus on early help, prevention, outreach services and outpatient teams is important elements, as well as emergency teams from the specialist healthcare service. This could, in my view, prevent deterioration of conditions, and not least prevent the use of coercion. As is well known, other measures should have been tried before coercion is used, but we know this is being fulfilled in a very near future. There is also a lack of provision between a regular/medical shift and hospital emergency services in many places. It's too tight, and the road is too long in between. For all people, housing based on individual needs, work/activity offers and networks is crucial for whether we are doing well in everyday life. I hope that today's debate will be something more than just that we are referring to a future interaction reform. We also want to welcome such a reform, or a big message, as it will be, and we know that it will also have consequences for mental health. But today I demand more than that. There must also be a debate on where we will and how we will do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e121	Let me start by thanking you for a good interpellation. Psychiatric disorders are an increasing challenge. The Institute for Public Health states that 30 to 50 pst. and the World Health Organisation estimates that depression will be an increasing public health challenge. Easier mental disorders, such as anxiety and depression, are the main cause of people falling out of work. Every third long-term disease report and disability benefit are justified by mental illness. Many people with mental disorders also have extensive problems with drugs. The starting point here is that we spend the most resources in Europe on mental health, and a great deal has happened since the escalation plan came into force in 1998. Twice as many people are being treated, and we've had 4,000 more years of mental health protection, that is, specialist health services. But we can ask, have we gotten the maximum out of these resources? And is the resources used correctly? I think the answer is no. If you are going to get help today, you have to go to the specialist health service to a very large extent. But the challenges cannot be solved by expanding this part of the service even more. It has to be help to get where people live, i.e. in the municipalities. A recent report from SINTEF suggests that one third of those who receive a 24-hour offer in the specialist health service would rather have had an offer in the municipality. This confirms the need for the conversion and transfer of resources. Today is 85 pst. of those working in the field of mental health protection, employed in diurnal institutions, and only 15 pst. in outpatient and outpatient services. About 70 pst. of the resources in the sector go to the specialist health service, and only 30 pst. for municipal services. This distribution does not reflect the need for services. I believe there is a lot to gain from turning the service from expensive daily activities into outpatient services and local measures with good availability. Many people with mental disorders experience that problems develop too long before they get help. The result will be excessive consumption of daily places and excessive use of coercion. This is a bad solution for patients and very expensive for society. People who labor will get better help before they get seriously ill, and good follow-up after they have been treated in hospitals. This is the cornerstone of the cooperation reform that we are working on. We're on the right track. User organisations have given clear feedback on this. At the same time, we need to evaluate the service to figure out what we're doing well and where we can get better. Health services — both in municipalities, in hospitals and in administration — need to become learning organisations to a much greater extent than today. Not least from this perspective, I have reduced a sample after the tragic event in Tromsø recently. The sample shall illuminate all conditions behind these killings and pass through all similar killings committed in recent years. The committee shall point to possible failure and shall examine whether there are common features from which we can learn in these cases. The goal is that, as far as possible, we should be able to prevent such events in the future. When I have looked at these issues, I feel quite certain that, for example. the psychological health protection in Oslo has learned from the tragic incident of the ‘dreak kill’. What I am more uncertain about is whether the psychological health protection in Vadsø, Kristiansand, Trondheim or Ålesund has captured the lessons that came out of the supervision of the health care system in Oslo, and the failure that could be pointed out in the context of the ‘trick-drap’. So I'm very concerned about reviewing this, see if we've systematically learned from tragic events related to mental health protection in recent years. That's why I'm glad that we're about to have an up-to-date sample, a broad range of competences, that can look at this. Like the interpellant, I am concerned that Norway seems to be using a lot of coercion compared to other countries in Europe. This is probably because we have more than twice as many institutional places as for example. Sweden. At the same time, I have experienced severe criticism in the wake of the tragic incident in Tromsø, among others. that we use too little coercion to prevent dangerous events, and that we have too few institutions. If I were convinced that more coercion and more security sites would make Norway safer, it would have been easier. However, the situation of those who commit psychosis, often in the context of drug abuse, is characterised, as I am told, rarely by their having a security mental hospital before the killing, rather by the failure of other parts of the offer, such as alcohol and alcohol. premature discharge and lack of follow-up in municipalities. That is why we need to focus much more on more easily accessible low-threshold services and good people living in these areas. Let me complement it, in connection with that, among other things. Police chief Truls Fyhn in Tromsø has been concerned about, i.e. having a group of patients characterised by being too sick to be in prison and too healthy to be forced into mental health protection: this is a group of patients that is a theme in the follow-up to the institution of the Mæland Committee. The Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are in the process of conducting a hearing now. The consultation period expires on 1 April, and in that framework there is a proposal to extend the basis for the use of coercion. Thus, it may be relevant to persons who repeatedly and persistently behave unacceptably, where each act following today's legislation does not qualify for the use of coercion, but where the sum of the acts performed by the person will in the future be able to provide the basis for the use of coercive force by means of a change in law. So through that consultation, we get important feedback on one of the issues that, among other things, Chief Truls Fyhn has been busy. In addition, I would like to say that I have a very great sense of services such as: The ACT teams – and we have a good example of that in Moss – who seek out people who need help but who do not even contact health services. There are patients with mental and drug problems who need continuity in treatment and follow-up. Once again, the theme is that the patient has an important medication, but does not follow it up. The ACT team in Moss won't let the patient stop taking his medicine. He/she is followed up, sought out, and assured of continuity of treatment. We also need to learn from other good examples, like the Iron District Psychiatric Centers. They have created user-controlled daily places that patients can get to when they know they need it. The use of coercive measures has fallen sharply instead of increasing daily use. I.e., available services provide safer patients who master their lives better. I have asked all the regional health companies to try out user-controlled daily places. At the same time, I would like to stress that, of course, we should have good institutions and a good offer of security psychiatry. People have to get the right help at the right level, when they need it. On questions of how I want to ensure continued migration, I would first like to point out that the interaction reform should contribute to the implementation of the intentions of the escalation plan. The reform shall facilitate the better functioning of municipalities. I have also given clear guidance on this in the mission documents. It's set at 20 million. SEK in incentive grants for the recruitment of several psychologists in municipalities. It's also allocated 50 million. kr to develop binding interaction models between municipalities and DPS. An important objective is to establish 20 new visiting ACT teams in the municipalities. The sum of these interventions will ensure the transition of mental health services to improve access to help and use of resources in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e155	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think we're very much in agreement about the big lines here -- it sounds like this -- and many of the measures that the Council of State mentions, I've also mentioned in my article. I also agree with the Council of State that it might not be the sum of money we spend, it goes on. Although we use as much resources as we can, we cannot point out that we have the world's best psychiatric service in Norway. It's important to see what we're spending this money on. Let me take another example that the Council of State did not have in mind. We spend an enormous amount of money on, among other things. drugs associated with mental illness in this country. I guess there's no group I get so many single calls from, like mentally ill patients – not least from relatives, parents, who have experienced that their children and young people have had huge amounts of medication. Some people go so far as to say that it might be the drugs that have broken our child. First you get drugs, then maybe one drug doesn't work well, then you get a new one – and then you get drugs to take away side effects. I'm not a professional in this area, but I'm worried when so many people are concerned about these relationships. The Council of State did not respond to one of my challenges, and I think he can do that: Does the Council of State not agree that even if we are in this transition – and I do not disagree with it, I agree very much with the features that the Council of State is talking about – does it actually go faster than building up offers in the municipalities? Then my question is, doesn't the Council of State mean we have to build up? We have to create security, we have to give codecision, so that they are concerned, in fact know that on the other side, next week or next month, when this offer is dropped, they know where to, know that they're going to get further treatment, that the offer is actually getting better, or at least as good as what they've had at the moment. That's not happening. So I want to hear if not the Council of State is to any greater extent than what we have seen now, should follow up on what is happening – because it is the Council of State that has the primary responsibility for the psychiatry in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e168	Yeah, the last point, who's responsible, I'm very aware of. I've felt that lately, too. These are difficult things. I think it's important that we take on that as for example. happened in Tromsø, is a deeply tragic event that makes it right that the seriousness of our discussion. Three people and an unborn life were affected by works that are almost hard to understand. I just want to comment very briefly that what is my lead, my policy, in terms of conversion, is that we should not downgrade offers until we have alternatives in place. It is the current policy, and it is clearly reflected in the communication I have with regional health companies, both in writing and orally. But I can only say to the representative Davøy that I will once again go into the matter in question in Bergen, just to ask what is going on. But the order from my side is that it should not be built down until alternatives are in place. So I think we have to take on board that there are examples where you professionally think that there are alternatives in place, but where the patient is unsure whether that is a right alternative. There may be a slightly more demanding discussion. So at this point I only have one comment for this using coercion. For there is the representative Davøy in on something that is very important. It's that we have a discussion about whether we have the right level of coercion use, or whether we have the wrong level of coercion use. My answer to that is actually both-and. I believe that in some places we have the right level of coercion, and in some places we have a wrong level of coercion – in the sense that there are so many variations. So to illustrate it, in Förde we have six compulsions per. 10,000 inhabitants. The hospital Østfold has 27 forced admissions per year. 10,000 inhabitants. So there's more than four times as much coercion per. 10 000 inhabitants in Eastfold as in Health led. And both of them can't be right. You can say a lot about people in Eastfold, but this can't possibly be professional. I think it is a major challenge that we must also have less professional exclusive rulers and more professional guidelines and professional consensus. And that's what I'm working on in relation to the use of coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e181	I am particularly concerned about the part of the important interpellation that has taken place here today, which concerns how we can move forward in establishing low-threshold services and early intervention. I remember that on several occasions the Committee has previously been concerned about the role of the school health service in this regard, about how we could strengthen the ability of the school health service to deal with mental distress. Today, young people are often exposed to a very long process — investigation measures in the PP service and to the BUP, etc. Takes a long time, and it often ends up with a conversation in an office a rare time, far away from school everyday life. In recent times, we have known, among other things: a couple of three secondary schools in Oslo have tried to find that psychologists from childhood and youth psychiatry have been present at school for a few days a week and have had conversations with students with mental disorders. They have thus been able to be in contact with school health services at an early stage. I think that's an experience that it's very important to go on. We need to develop that kind of offer and get more capacity into the first line by e.g. new cooperative arrangements between childhood and youth psychiatry and the school health service, where ambulatory teams – now warned by the Council of State that more efforts will be made – can be deployed in the next round if more and more concentrated efforts are needed. The Committee shall also have regard, inter alia, to: the social health diversity communication commented on the poor interaction between the different actors in this area, from school health services to the PPT to the BUP – child and youth psychiatry – to child protection, which may be in some contexts, etc. I'm aware that the government just started an investigation into how to improve this interaction. That's what I think is very important to be able to get these services into more direct contact with young people and students. In this context, it is also important to look at how to get into kindergartens via health centres and others and get a better tool there. In the case of lowthreshold services and early intervention, I would like to comment on the role of decision-makers. It is important to look at the competences of decision-makers in the area of mental distress and also at how the tariff system etc. is designed because today, in my opinion, it invites little to focus on this part of patients’ health situation. A further problem in this regard is that when decision-makers now refer to specialists and further investigation and treatment, patients are often provided with a ringlist, and it may be a problem to get in touch at all with specialists, who have long waiting lists and are full of patients. It is also important to look at the resource use of these specialists, because some can meet 15 to 20 patients a day, and some can meet three, four – completely depending on the kind of therapy they swear to. It is possible today because the basic grant is so large that there is not the same strict framework for action that you might expect from other health care teams. To date, I have concentrated on these low-threshold services and early intervention, which I believe we still need to pay attention, and which it was also suggested in the interpellation. With regard to other services here, I would like to comment in particular on what happens when patients come from institutions outside the municipalities. The 1990 reform has placed great emphasis on their separate residence. This has probably led to some examples of their loneliness, lack of active follow-up and lack of professional support. I therefore believe that the municipalities that today resort to more housing, more botun, stronger units that can give more activity, more professionalism and more care, for example. as regards follow-up to medication and other questions, chooses the right path. And I think it's important that we give the kind of signals that can also be given to the municipalities from the big business to the government, which is going to organise the offer that can then be more sound. Finally, I would also like to say that I am pleased with what the Council said about these which fall between two chairs, namely that there are now new answers to the situation that cannot continue: that we have people for whom there is no clear treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e196	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for what she brings up here today, which is a very important issue. There is no concealment that in recent years there have been relatively many interpellations related to psychiatry, relatively many questions in the questionnaire and relatively many issues about this that have been being treated. That's what was in a lot of ways the background for us to put in place an escalating space within the psychiatry. This is a stepping-up plan that ended at the end of the year. The earmarked appropriations that have been allocated in the past have now been put into the framework, both for regional health enterprises and, not least, for municipalities, so as to take this into account – on the basis of the need to have municipal diversity, to try out more models to see what works best. I think we've seen some pendulum effect in both the escalation plan and the changes we've made in the psychiatry. When we were going to leave the institution, with the best possible return to the municipality, it was a very good idea. The question is, did it go too fast, and has the pendulum swinged too far? Maybe we should think back a little bit, not to go back to institutional care, but to see if the number of places has been built too quickly. Then I think in particular about the security psychiatry. I think there's reason to ask such a question, because we've got a relatively large signal that the threshold for being typed in has become too high, while it's become too low in the context of printing. This, of course, goes beyond those patients who need this kind of offer. It is important to say that there is one group that needs these security sites, and then we have the other large groups, where there are very many, who need completely different measures. There may be people with depression who can obviously be treated in the home municipality by getting good follow-up and a well-organised offer there. But unfortunately, we also see examples that now that the municipalities have got this into their framework appropriations, some municipalities actually start looking at the possibility of cutting down, to save money. I myself have visited a municipality where proposals have now been made to reduce the number of annual works, among others. on the day offer – there is a really low threshold offer in the municipality. It could affect a large number of people, and it is serious for those who benefit greatly from such measures. So I think we're probably going to have to look at several ways to do this. But it's obvious, as the Council itself says, that conversion processes are difficult, and that conversion processes will take time. But the most important thing in such processes is, as the Council itself had in mind, that we have learning organisations – that the good examples, where we see that things obviously work, are passed on to other places. I wonder if that is the case today. And I think I'm going to give the answer myself too: that's not the case. It seems like this is pretty much a watertight shoot between different levels that makes the information not going further, or that others won't take this knowledge – because you're convinced that what you're doing is the best. It's these walls that actually have to be demolished. If it is to become a learning organisation, it must be a seamless system. It must then be that, even if you are in the East, in the West, in North Norway or where it is now, you have access to the same knowledge – that you just get an information flow that is real, not just on paper, or that comes in fine party writing and good speech. Something else that I would like to get into is, among other things. interventions for prisoners with mental health problems. Here we have an obvious problem that we've been introduced to both through the media and some other kinds of look-up – also knowledge we've gained through, among other things. letters. I've visited Ila prison myself. It worries me that prisoners who are going to sit for a very long time and who have major mental problems are just going to sit down, while they should have had a psychiatric offer in real life – for periods of time. Here, the Council of State should sit down with the Minister of Justice and try to get a measure in place so that in prisons with the most mentally ill, people can be put directly into the security department – for the benefit of society, for the benefit of the prison, but not least for the benefit of the prisoner, who can then get an offer he needs in a security department, and not stay behind the walls and not get the help he needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e213	It may be worth recalling the scale of the challenges, which the Council of State started with in its response to the interpellation. Studies suggest that about one sixth of the adult population is suffering from mental illness at all times. About a quarter of the 900,000 people in working age who are out of work have mental problems as a major cause. The World Health Organisation assumes that mental illness, next to cardiovascular disease, will be the main cause of disease stress worldwide. The roadmap for mental health began with a big-time report presented by the then state council Gudmund Hernes in 1997. There was a broad, unison, cross-political consensus in the Storting on the 10-year plan concluded at the end of 2008. Let me just remind you of the main principles: decentralization was the consensus. But it is also important to remember that there was a consensus that the 24-hour capacity in hospitals should not be reduced, but continued at the same level as one had at the time. The evaluations so far from the escalation plan are in many respects positive in the sense that they show that we have moved in the right direction. At the same time, the scale of challenges has increased. That's what makes it difficult to keep track of the scale of the problems. I'm going to focus on some of the main challenges that remain and that we haven't been able to meet properly so far. It concerns the equivalence of municipal services. Disequilibrium and lack of municipal services are still leading to considerable pressure on specialist health services. The availability of specialist healthcare is still problematic. The waiting time is still too long — an average of 53 days for adults and 75 days for children. Legal security problems in this area are even greater than in the health sector in general. Sixteen psts were experienced by children and young people seeking mental health care. breach of the time limit for assessment and 23 pst. breach of the deadline for processing in the second tertiary of 2008. In its report, the National Audit Board pointed out that the capacity of institutions and not the patient’s needs appear to be crucial for the assessments being made on health care rights. The National Audit Office’s report also suggests that some of the problem here is linked to the structure of health businesses becoming, in public terms, the goat that fits the oat sack, i.e. there is a lack of independence in terms of the professional medical assessments in relation to capacity. For this reason, in a representative proposal on faster health care, the Right has proposed a system that ensures greater professional independence in the assessment of patients’ need for help. We have also been critical from our point of view that the government has built places in security psychiatry, from 228 to 191 in the period 2001–08. The right has intervened to escalate the supply of mental health protection to this category of patients, including several security psychiatric facilities. Clearly, the competence associated with the assessment of hazard needs to be strengthened, because this is a far-reaching issue of special competence. We have also asked from our side that the capacity of private operators and private contract specialists should be better used to provide patients with faster help than is the case today. We already asked in 2006 that the possible amount of available capacity in this area should be monitored, so that we know with certainty at least how much the potential useable capacity is. There was still no answer to this, and I did not understand that this was included in the figures given by the Council of State in its statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e234	The aspirations within the mental health system have been discussed very many times in this room. That means we're taking it seriously. It is important that we in this room discuss this important area. I remember, among other things. that the Left had an interpellation in November 2007, where we tried to focus on the large-scale forced use that we have in Norway, compared to other countries. Last June, we discussed here in Stortinget a proposal from the Left to discuss possible measures to reduce coercion in mental health protection. As the interpellant himself mentions, we had an interpellation about this just before Christmas, and we've had this theme up in many contexts. That once again, today, we are debating this issue, is absolutely necessary, because we know that, in a number of ways, it is revealed that we do not have a good enough offer. The Court's investigation last year showed a result that gave a crushing judgment, I'd say. The investigation concluded that treatment provision is neither equivalent nor sufficient. We're all a few of them. I also believe the Council of State agrees with that. Something else, as the Riksrevision concluded, was that the priority given to who of the patients to be assisted is poor. So here we have more than enough to tackle. The big question is, how are we going to solve it? When it comes to prioritizing patients, I might say the most serious thing is that we can't prioritize the sickest. Increases in the number of patients treated are a poor measure of satisfaction in itself if it is such that the most seriously ill do not receive the necessary treatment. But I think it is right to point out in this debate today that we must not lose our heads even if serious, tragic events happen. However, I think we need to assess whether the treatment system is able to provide the very sickest with psychosis with a good enough supply. In my opinion, we don't need more beds, but we need more beds for those who have serious suffering. Others should be given more user-driven seats and well-decentralised facilities. I think prevention and low-threshold services are good medicine, not least for those with mental disorders. I cannot avoid entering into interactions. I'm basically very united in what this word means. Interaction between specialist and primary level is important. I think a large number of people agree with that. For example, outpatient teams, linked to the district medical centre and operating outreach activities in the form of treatment and rehabilitation, as well as organisation in the home environment of patients, are good measures. All patients receiving healthcare live in a municipality. So the municipalities have to take their responsibilities. Besides, I think we have an unused resource in the relatives. I also think we can benefit from interaction with the relatives. If patients are to have the most meaningful and independent life with the optimal level of function, both social, emotional and practical, all parties must contribute. This is stated in a program statement by the outpatient team at Nordfjord Psychiatric Center in Nordfjordeid. The councils were in on the Health Förde. One is well-known that Nordfjord psychiatricians are far ahead of psychiatry. In practice, they have seen interactions on the agenda. I know that the supply of the mentally ill in this region is relatively good on a Norwegian scale. At least I know that the municipalities are very satisfied with this outpatient team. It's a fact that in Health Förde, and perhaps especially attached to North Fjord Psychiatricians, coercion use is small, as the Council of State was in it. How are we going to get the best out of this in practice? We're talking about learning organisations, but we have to get them to tell each other about this within our own health business area, at least. That should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e251	I would like to thank you for the debate. Although not all the parties in the Stortinget have participated today, we have had more debates on the psychiatry field – that is right – and we will probably have more in the future. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there are huge differences in the use of coercion around our country. Only that in itself is enough to say that here something has to be 'happening crazy' – at least so will I, in my language, mountaineering, say it. Then the Council of State says that he fully agrees – and I am pleased – that nothing should be built down until you have good enough offers to stand up for those who need it, and that clear leadership is given by the political team. It is probably true – there are many good leaders who are given from the political side – but we have seen, over and over again, that we also need to follow up on what is actually happening. When the institution Solbu – a clover institution here in Oslo for young people with major mental problems – was closed down, several of those living there moved home to old parents. They did not receive any new offer. And this is a matter that I must say has been one of the most difficult, namely to be visiting these young people and seeing the uncertainty they faced. Finally, they had to choose to move home, because they did not receive a new offer. This was not for everyone, but it was for someone. It should not have been a single debt, in my opinion. It is important not only to have leadership, but also to control in some cases. Many health companies say they get a lot of leadership. It may be difficult for them to prioritize — perhaps sometimes they need help to prioritize. So a few words to the representative Bøhler. I very much agree on the prevention measures. Starting in health centres, starting with the low threshold offer in municipalities, has been listed here several times, and here we quite agree. We are also pleased with the waiting time guarantee that has come with regard to children and young people. The waiting time might have been even shorter, but the guarantee is at least there. Then there is one relationship that we have not so far affected, but on which I could imagine challenging the Council of State. He doesn't need to answer today's question whether he agrees or not, but think about it. The following is the case: when the doctor and the patient agree that now we're no longer coming, we actually need specialist help, the second-line service has a sovereign right to say: No, here you can't come, you're not sick enough – you don't even get an hour. I wish we had a system where we said that when both the warden and the patient think they need some help – it could be advice, guidance, input from the second-line service, a visit by the outpatient team or an hour with a specialist – they should actually get it. It's not like that today. Too many people are being rejected. Then you get into the community health service – and get sicker and sicker – before you finally end up in the second line service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e264	Thank you for the debate. I'm sure we can discuss the latter in more detail. But I think it is important to stress that the patient has the right to assess his health care needs. It's not safe to agree that the need is not present, but I think it's hard to imagine a development where it's unilaterally the first-line service that should have the right to define which patients need the second-line service. But I see the point of the representative Davøy. So I have some comments on this with the reduction of the number of spaces. I think it is important that in the debate we relate to the facts on which it is at least possible to agree, so that the debate is not led on the wrong premises. Looking at developments following the adoption of the psychiatry plan, it can be seen that there has been a major change — in the form that the psychiatric care centres on a state-owned basis have been largely closed down and transferred to the municipalities. I experience it so that we generally agree that providing the type of hospital care is a municipal task. But what we're concerned about is the number of treatment beds. Here the development has been that when we started with the psychiatry plan, we had about. 3,000 nurses. The number is now down to approx. Two hundred and seven hundred. The representative's salary has a point when he says that the starting point was that the number of hospital beds should not be reduced. But then it is important to see this in the context of the development of the number of treatment beds in the district psychiatric centres, because there have been 1,800 more during the period. Yes, there have been fewer hospital beds, but there have been many more beds in the DPS. And as a result, today we have achieved more treatment beds than when we started with the escalation plan. So it's always right to consider whether we're e.g. has enough security slots. I think it's important that we keep evaluating that. But what I have at least been informed about is that there is no queue for security sites today. There have been some challenges in Health South-East – which are supposed to be addressed. So that's not where we have queues, even though we have to continuously assess whether we have the right level. The last thing I want to say is that the representative Nesvik raised about duty of confidentiality between agencies is a very important topic. The sample currently selected shall also be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e278	As a result, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e292	No one has asked for the floor. The President will share an observation with Stortinget – and a challenge. [[Votation, see below]] We have had an interpellation debate on a theme that has been very topical in all the media in the last few days. The debate was attended by the Council of State and four representatives, as well as by the inter-pellant. The number of the press unit was zero. It must be a challenge for the Storting to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e302	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e312	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party sent by Mr Odelstinget on 16 March 2009: ‘The Government requests the amendment of Section 6 of the Tobacco Injury Act to be proposed by the Government so that the law allows the use of unserved smoking rooms that are not to the detriment of persons other than those who voluntarily use such spaces.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-30.ana.ud1551e379	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
