ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e41	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e52	This is a historic day. A criminal law over 100 years old is to be replaced by a new, modern criminal law, adapted to our times. The penal code of 1902 has, of course, been amended a hundred times along the way, but the new penal code is the result of a comprehensive review and revision of the principles underlying the criminal law. It is over 30 years of work that is now in the process of completion. In 2005, the Stortinget adopted the general part of the new penal code, and last year we dealt with the chapters on, among other things. genocide and terror. These chapters well illustrate the need for a new penal code. The penal code of 1902 existed for a period when Norway was preparing to become a free and independent nation. It entered into force in 1905, the same year as the Union resolution. Today, we see that cross-border crime is becoming increasingly serious, and global challenges with regard to trafficking in human beings, terrorism, genocide and corruption must also be reflected in our national criminal law. International demands and standards have become part of Norwegian criminal law. The old penal code was characterized by being designed by men, by men, by the weight of material considerations. The new bill represents a turn against the main focus of criminal law being on protecting individuals from violations. I am pleased that the Committee largely endorses the Government's proposal for a new penal code. Among other things, the Committee agrees that the level of penalties for sexual abuse, violence and killing, sexual mutilation and violence in close relations should be significantly increased. The penal code is one of the cornerstones of our democracy, and consensus on important road choices gives the law even greater weight. There are, of course, nuances and disagreements on some points, but I would particularly like to stress one aspect in which the Committee is unanimous. We want the significant criminal atrocities we impose on the perpetrators of serious crime to take effect immediately. This has to be noticed by the police, prosecution authorities and courts. A separate proposal for entry into force of the new penal code will be presented in the next period, but the Committee believes that we do not have time to wait for it until these changes enter into force. Here we expect the actors in the justice sector to follow up the legislator's very clear signal. We don't fight crime by law alone. The new penal code is just one of many elements of a comprehensive red-green justice policy. We need to discover more crime. That's why I'm glad that the DNA reform, initiated by the red-green government, turns out to be a success. Already the number of samples submitted from the police districts to the Forensic Institute has doubled, and we expect a significant increase in the percentage of clearance. We need to respond faster. That's why I'm glad the government has prioritised more resources for the police. We see that the courts have the most effective procedure in the Nordic region, and we are about to remove the reconciliation queue, so that the convictions quickly come to a settlement. We need to rehabilitate better. That is why I think the Minister of Justice deserves tribute for the work he has done to strengthen the content of criminal justice. Today, more than half return to crime after the end of the settlement. Better education, better job opportunities and a close follow-up where health, shelter and housing are core elements, lead to better preparedness for prisoners to face their lives after apologies. It will result in less crime. We want to expand the use of community sanctions, because we see that this results in fewer relapses into crime. But in the case of serious crime, such as gross violence and sexual assault, we are clear that the courts are going to impose prison sentences. Today, sexual abuse is a serious social problem, with major and often traumatic consequences for the victim. The Governmentally Deprived Rape Committee indicated that in 2006 974 rapes and attempted rapes were reported. At the same time, the investigation showed that eight out of ten complaints were lodged by the police. In the context of new criminal law, the Ministry of Justice has carried out a review of judgments in a variety of criminal cases. It's depressing reading. However, despite the recent increase in the level of penalties, the level of penalties is lower than the level of penalties. Assaults and rapes with strong use of power appear to be the most punishable, and the level is in prison for four years. In cases where children are victims of abuse, the level of penalties is between one and two years. This is unacceptable! Therefore, the Government proposes a significant increase in the level of penalties, and in order to ensure that this is followed up, some clear steps are taken: The criminal code is being increased. The minimum penalty for rape is increased to three years. The level of normal penalties for rape shall be significantly higher than that. I am pleased that the Right and the SV, who went against raising the minimum penalty in the last period, now believe that it is right to increase the penalty level. The level of penalties is indicated in the light of the judgments under review. In the case of children under 14 years of age, all sexual intercourse and the most qualified sexual acts shall hereinafter be considered as rape. The Soria Moria declaration was clear that violence and killing should also be penalised considerably more severely, and that the fight against violence, especially against women and children, should be intensified. As a result of the Government's action plan against violence in close relations, five children's homes are established. Alternatives to violence are being built across the country. All police districts have their own family violence coordinators. Later today, Odelstinget provides the legal basis for the reverse alarm of violence. The government's proposal for a new penal code involves a penalty tightening of about a third. When it comes to family violence and sexual mutilation, we double the punishments. I am very pleased that we are also taking on an adversarial duty when it comes to serious violence in close relationships. A study conducted by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research shows that more than every four women who have lived in pairs have been subjected to violence in current or past conditions. Recently we have again experienced cases of killing committed in close relations, and very often children are involved either as direct victims of violence or as witnesses. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to have more stringent legal protection for more vulnerable groups, and I am particularly pleased that we ensure that women and children are more protected under the new penal code. The government's proposal for a new penal code also reflects social development in other important areas. The development and widespread use of information technologies in society confronts us with new challenges — including criminal justice. Evolution makes society more vulnerable to attack. Therefore, data crime has an important place in the new penal code. Identities are criminalised. We are even stronger in the area of freedom of expression, by inter alia: decriminalisation and removal of the Blasphemi paragraph. In the previous period, the Bondevik II government proposed to retain the Blasphemi paragraph, and the government received support from the Advance Party at that time. That's why I'm glad that the opposition has now decided to support the Government that it's right to remove this paragraph. Today's bill is historic. A penal code over 100 years old is replaced by a new, modern penal code, adapted to our times. Finally, I would like to draw attention to some aspects: Of course, on page 6 it should not be left, but the Socialist Left Party in the note on criminal law and social change. An incurrency error has occurred in the proposal for a new section 270 on page 30, but this is correctly mentioned in the text and in the proposal for a legislative decision on page 80. There will also be a need to look at some legislative and technical adaptations before the new penal code can enter into force. The Justice Committee has already received some input. This will be brought back to the Ministry of Justice in the context of the proposed entry into force to be promoted by the Stortinge in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e119	I have a simple question for the chairman of the committee. In one of the formulations dealing with rape, the Committee uses the term ‘milder’ as a form of rape. Can the chairman of the committee tell me what she puts into the concept of'milder' forms of rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e126	Like the representative Ellingsen, I also react to the use of the term ‘milder’ form of rape. In my world, there is no "milder" form of rape. Rape is a serious breach of integrity, and I believe that all forms of rape – however serious they may be – have major consequences for those who are exposed to it. The background to our use of the term "milder" form of rape is that it's in the proposition and it's taken from there, and it's used to nuance the various forms of rape. But I fully agree with Mr Ellingen that this can be misleading.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e133	According to the Evening Post, there is a plan that the penal code should be implemented by 2012, but the documents received by the Stortinget state that it is impossible to know when to implement it. Can the chairman of the committee explain to Stortinget what plan it is aimed at and about its progress? How does she feel that the courts should follow the premises of the Storting and a law that has not come into force, as the Minister of Justice of the Evening Post has to do today's laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e138	The treatment of the proposed entry into force must be determined by the next set of aggregates. It will be submitted for the next majority, and I cannot say here and now exactly when it will be submitted. However, it must be quite clear that when a unanimous judicial committee – which is also part of this unanimity – says so clearly that it is already time for the courts to increase the level of penalties in relation to violence and abuse, it is a very clear signal to the courts. Also within the current criminal law – the old criminal law – there are broad criminal frameworks that provide a good opportunity for the courts to increase the level of punishment. In the case of several criminal offences, we see that the courts have now committed themselves to the lower level of penalties, so this is a good opportunity to increase the level of penalties also under the old criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e145	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e148	Most honourable President! Nice to see Ballo again. We would have liked you to have been in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e153	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e157	Enough about it! What we're doing tonight is a historic event. This is part two of the major revision of the penal code that former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum started on, and that Minister of Justice Storberget this evening will unload in Stortinget, together with the Justice Committee. There is no doubt that there has been a great deal of effort from the previous government and from today's government in the work done. I want to give tribute to both the councils who have been responsible for this job. At the same time, I also want to pay tribute to the staff in the department. I assume that they have had some busy evenings and days to find formulations and make adjustments to take care of the political leadership that it has been necessary to take care of. Well, I guess that shows you a little bit, too. We're going to call it "Norwegian virtue" - the way you do it. So you have a political awareness of what you want to achieve, but yet it's a broad and good process. Similarly, it is natural to give a homage to everyone else who has cared — it is individuals, it is organisations and others who have made best sense to challenge the political parties, and to make their contribution to making a good law even better. Again, I think this is part of the Norwegian values that we are normally proud of, and that we greatly appreciate. The same applies in this case too. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur who, I believe, has loosed the committee through a diverse and heavy proposition in an excellent way, and the result today also shows that very much of what we are presenting is the committee on. That seems to me to be the honour of the committee – and the rapporteur, of course, who has done this job. Then I'm done boasting of Stortinget and Odelstinget, and we're moving on. One of the main challenges in this is, of course, also a balance between the role of legislator and court. I note today that the Minister of Justice has been quoted in an article in the evening post, where he calls for much of what Odelstinget decides tonight to be implemented, because there is a signal here. At the same time, I record that the Riksadvokat says that it is possible, but there are a few reservations about the principle of power distribution. Among other things, the legislator adopts the framework, but it is ultimately the Courts, through decisions there, that raise things and set new penalties. We're there in the first place, and then it's the courts that confirm what the punishment is like. The government has made a model of this, where a number of convictions have been debated and said that with this background, we want to lift the penalty in some important areas. Methodically, I think it's very good, because it's concrete, and it's clear what you want to achieve. It is not automatically certain that the judges who have taken the decisions are equally impressed by the government's work, but I assume that they have respect for it, and that they accept it when you have chosen to do it that way. In all, when you have such a fundamental debate that we actually have now, it's important to remember that there are some principles of power distribution. The Storting does his job as a legislator, and then the courts will do their job in terms of judging. If we rotate this to, then we're going to run, and we're going to skip our problems. But as I said, favour the way the government has done it, and the Progress Party supports a lot of it, even though we would have wanted the Government to go even a little further in some of these things. Then there's another moment I want to stay a little bit, and that may not have got enough focus, but on which the Class Battle challenged individual members of the Justice Committee a few days ago: What should be punished, and what should not be punished? Of course, I've read what's at the forefront of the government's proposition, where you say what you're doing now, and what you're going through, you say something about the law enforcement, you say something about the criminal framework and how this is going to be done. But I doubt whether we're good enough to focus on the consequences of constantly adopting new laws and imposing restrictions on what's outside it. For me, it's one of the basic debates that might have deserved a greater focus than what we've been able to achieve during this process. That doesn't mean that what we're doing isn't good, but I think sometimes you have to stop and think about other dimensions that we might not see when we're in the middle of a clean lawwork. Furthermore, another important moment for Stortinget – and I assume for the Government – is freedom of speech. How do we protect freedom of expression against criminal law? There it is well allowed to say that the government might have a couple of wrong cuts at first, but got well in it again, and per. Today things look good. But I'm glad that there was the great focus on freedom of expression as it became, because it serves Norway as a nation to the honor that we actually dare to do these things. We dare challenge each other. We dare to challenge each other on hijab, on cartoons, on – almost – Nordics and other terms used in time and without time. But we dare to do that, and we can do it as long as we do it in a way that doesn't affect anyone else unfairly. It's a quality that we have to take care of. In this way, I am pleased that, through this debate, we too have had a focus on freedom of expression. Graduation of punishment is one of the main tasks of what we have done in relation to this bill. I think that has also been good. A challenge in this way is to come up with laws and legal frameworks that people recognize. It is so that when we make decisions here, it is important that they have a legitimacy in the population – that people say this makes sense; this punishment was appropriate. Of course, there'll be nuances at any time, that someone says this is too tough, and others say it's too mild, but I think we should also have the dimension that's people's perception of justice. We're here as representatives of our voters, and then it's also important to play with them and listen to them. I think what we're doing now is more in line with the expectations the audience or people have, than what the previous law was. So it's that punishment alone solves very few things. So you have to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. A challenge for the Storting will continue to be – and for which there has been no good solution – what to do with repeaters and repeat crime? That's one of the reasons why the Progress Party has chosen to support the government's return guarantee, not because it represents something particularly creative and innovative, but if it can help to systematize all those who have a responsibility to help people back in a better way than we have now, it's worth it. I've said it before, and I'd like to say it again, that one of the goals is to make everyone good taxpayers, so that you kind of feel like you're contributing back to the community. I think for some criminals it's pretty tough to be viewed as just a burden, just a problem. Especially if you want to make a deal if you're dealing with crime, you depend on society to set up and help people come back. In this way, the crime scene is not uniform, it is heterogeneous, and that also means that the response possibilities must be diverse, and they must be consistent with the challenges that each individual has, at the same time as the action taken. Another element which has at least been important for the Progress Party is the concept of limitation. We are sceptical that we do not follow up our proposal to remove the term of limitation in the most serious cases. We think it's sad that if in the worst case you commit a killing and doing things to keep you away for a given number of years, you're a criminal. We think it would have been much better to have a system where a person could actually be punished even if it went on for a long time, but that the court had to take it into account in the criminal investigation. I think it's important not least for the sake of the victims and the survivors who have lost someone, that they feel that justice is happening to the fullest. They will also understand that the punishment measurement will be minimal, but they will feel it as a fair act. So that at least means we're right to do that. Of course, we had also hoped that the majority would be involved and look at things where a child is killed before it is born, but we're not going to be involved in that. We're dealing with that, even if we wanted to maybe torture ourselves to figure out a delicate point. We record that this is not the case, and we take note of that. Then the committee's chairman was involved in the committee, and for the Progress Party, I want to refer briefly to what Supreme Court Judge Matningsdal has come up with. So he's pointed out some things about practical cases of gross violence. There it is that, for the Progress Party, we want it to be the way it is today. We believe and hope it's an unintended pretext that causes some of the things to go away. We want to maintain the current level of this, and there is also something in relation to the negligent killing and the debt requirement there, possibly having a little logical flaw in it. But I'm doing like the committee chairman, I'm putting my trust in the state council clearing up this when we get back to the introduction. Then, at my discretion, there's a typo on page 37 of the setting, second paragraph. There's the Stortinget written with little s, and it must be completely improper. We can't have it that way. I will then address the proposals of the Advance Party. I will also say that we are going to support the proposals No. 25, 26 and 27, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e197	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the proposals he referred to, from the Progress Party and the Advance Party and the Right, and he has ensured that the Stortinget is treated in a respectful manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e200	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e205	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e208	Earlier today in Stortinget, we had a very interesting debate that developed into a debate on active death aid, and at the National Assembly of the Progress Party, the party agreed to accept active death aid. Today, as we know, we are going to decide on a new penal code, and there is support for a unanimous committee, including the Progress Party, that it is still not allowed to contribute to the pitfalls of compassion, in other words, active death aid should continue to be punishable. I have registered that the representative Ellingsen has stated to the media that this is not problematic because the new program only applies in the next period. And then I have problems, because as you know, the new penal code is not going to apply until 2011–2012. Does this mean that the Progress Party will change the new penal code that we are adopting today, already until the harvest, if we have a change of government and it becomes a dark blue government? And how does this relate to the stated aim of the Progress Party to have maximum predictability in justice policy, especially in relation to legal work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e215	I thank you for the question, which I think is timely and expected. I think it's quite simple, and I expect that the representative has got my argument on why it should be like that. So I am dealing with the fact that we have given a position before that decision was taken, and of course we have to follow up in a good and proper way through treatment in our big group. But I am also pleased with the concern expressed by the representative, because it would have been tempting and asked questions back: if it is so important to lift the penalties and take care of children and women who are subjected to violence, why not put in place the penalties here, which the representative is so concerned about – it should now also have time to wait until 2012? So I don't know if that makes more sense than our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e222	The next replicant is the representative Akhtar Chaudhry, then the representative Thomas Breen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e225	I am pleased to hear from the representative Ellingen that punishment alone is not the solution. Our humanistic punishment and the execution of the punishment are based on long experience, deep research and empirical work. It shows that it gives us results. The length of the penalty is also part of it. It's not shown anywhere that the longer you're in, the better you become. In its work and comments, the Progress Party is in favour of long sentences, and the representative of this House from the pulpit also argued. I wonder: what research or empirical work is the loyalty of the Progress Party to high and long-term punishments, where is this research work? Or is it just that you want... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e232	I was not aware that it was that all the policies were based on empirical work. It is possible that this is the case with SV, but I strongly doubt that, because SV voted against lifting the minimum penalty for gross rape, which the majority are going to adopt today. There was an SV vote against when we had up the general part. Then the Progress Party and the Workers' Party stood together. So it's not going to be able to do SV. It is possible that the representative Chaudhry has conducted a personal empirical investigation since then, which is why he today takes a distance from None Marte Thorkildsen's claim last time. It is possible that it is good, logical SV policy, it is poor progress party policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e237	It will be the representative of the Syversen who gets the next line, as the Workers' Party has already had a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e240	Yeah, that's when parties that are not in the committee start to interfere. First, I would like to say that I think the representative Ellingsen made a very good contribution, a balanced contribution – I kept saying very balanced to be from the party he is from, but of course I did not say that. On the other hand, I and the Christian People's Party also welcome the decision made at the National Meeting of the Advance Party – in connection with the vote we are going to have later today on active death aid. Since I think perhaps the position of the Judicial Committee came before the National Meeting of the Advance Party, I intend to put the question in a slightly different way: Did the decision of the Advance Party at the national meeting come as a surprise to the representative Ellingen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e248	It came as a surprise to the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e256	What we are dealing with today is the result of a great deal of work from several governments, government councils and a government agency that probably has worked both nights and days and what is worse. I also want to commend the rapporteur and the committee for good cooperation. Goethe said that you should distrust all those who feel a strong urge to punish. Edmund Burke on his side said that bad laws are the worst form of tyranny. It may form the back porch because the Børneboe on its side stated that any progress depends on both written and unwritten laws being broken. That the entire spectrum of Storting from left to right side 95 pst. is together in the setting up of the criminal law means, hopefully, that the government has done quite well. The legislative proposal is a rethink of what should be punished, and how severe it should be punished for various offences. The bill also represents a turn against the focus of protecting individuals from violations, whether it be violence, sexual assault or killing. Although it may seem a little bit small-radical and especially to say it, the last criminal law of the committee was created more than a hundred years ago — sometimes for men. It has also been said that mankind's history is the history of ever injustice and assault by man towards the woman, in order to tyrantize her completely. I hope it's not so bad in 2009, but in any case, in our old penal code, it was the concern for property and values that got the main focus. The right is then very pleased that a unanimous committee wants to tighten up the penalties for serious, integrity-affecting criminal acts affecting women and children in particular, but also men. In order to be sure that increased minimum penalties for the rape and automatic disruption of qualified sexual acts to some under 14 years of age function after intention, and do not result in a greater detachment because the length of the sentence makes the court perhaps feel in a situation of coercion while it would have been prepared to give a lower penalty for the relationship if possible, I refer to Høre's proposal, No. 23, where we ask for an independent evaluation three years after the law enters into force. As far as entry into force is concerned, I would like to ask the State Council in its statement to clarify the statements made in today's Evening Post. There he says that the plan is that the law should be implemented during 2012. The proposition says that it is not possible to fix the time. So does the Council of State have something specific to say about this plan, which the Stortinget does not know about, and how does he perceive the nearer entry into force? I also ask the Council of State to specify how he intends to have non-in force legal provisions to work now, as he says in today's Evening Post. Outwardly, it may seem a bit strange to reorientation of the legal source doctrine that we've had to date. I would also ask the Council of State to answer yes or no if he intends to propose amendments to the current criminal law in order to speed this up, as we do with deadlines for sexual harassment – a matter that the Committee is currently dealing with. The rape committee was important. It is planned to set up four positions under Kripos, which will work specifically and specifically in the field of morality. It is a piece from the Premisses of the Rapports Committee, and I ask the Council of State to explain in its contribution to the progress of this work, to explain whether these positions have been announced, and how far they have come in the recruitment process. We've heard this, from the Right, hasn't happened yet. The Children’s Rights Network has been informed that there is a need for better control of the level of lawyers acting as assistant lawyers in cases dealing with abuses against both children and adults. In addition to the adoption of criminal provisions to come into force at any time, it is also important that the work of aid lawyers on these kinds of cases is of high quality. I hope he can say something about the quality promotion he sees implemented in the future. The issue of the criminalisation of the use and possession of doping agents has been the subject of long-term and changing government discussions. Nearly the day after the criminal law was presented, where criminalisation is not proposed, representatives of the government parties notified an inquiry into the issues – which has been done for three and a half years. It was used as an argument to reject proposals for national doping legislation, which was not about criminalisation at all, but about access to doping testing even outside the organised sport for the prevention of drug use, which takes place primarily among boys and men. Proposals Nos. 2, 3 and 4, from the Right and the Advance Party, is a prevention offer to a government that is committed to incorporating the Women’s Convention and ensuring equality, but which in this case will help to ensure that gender equality and prevention policies can also apply to both sexes. A national doping law, the development of an action plan to combat negative body pressure and the increasing incidence of eating disorders among boys, and not least the control of doping inflows into the country, is an important complement to the proper assessment of the criminalisation issue. Right? I'm glad that we've got the government sections that we need to look at the so-called HIV section. A new review is needed, where a broad health evaluation is carried out based on up-to-date knowledge and analysis of case-law. I record that you do not want to be part of ordering such a matter for Stortinget, but I perceive the majority's comments and the essence in them so that this is kind of baked in. I would like to ask for feedback when you expect the Stortinget to be presented with such a review. The design of provisions protecting specific groups will always be linked to the challenges of defining which groups should be covered. The legal position of the guardians in the Government's proposal for a new penal code is not good enough. The guards have a lot of contact with the audience and experience an increase in the amount of violence and threats in their professional activities. Providing greater protection to weight gainers will be an important addition to the new law on watchkeeping, which we will soon adopt. The criminal law we adopt today will not be much worth if we do not solve the ongoing policy crisis. Then I'm going to promise that the Right won't talk about the political crisis any more today, but it's important in relation to the economic and organized crime you can assume is increasing to an extent with a financial crisis. Repeatedly we have seen a lack of interaction between different official control stations and the police in e.g. social security and tax fraud, where a wide range of cases are pending due to lack of capacity in the police. We have not concluded on the question of whether others should be given investigative powers, but we are asking the Government to investigate it, while at the same time wanting to prevent the snitch privatisation we see from companies engaging private investigators and private investigations of lack of police force. The right has also proposed a higher maximum penalty for – I was saying – normal sexual mutilation than what the government imposes. We all agree that gender mutilation is bad, and because a total population thinks it has to be combated, we would have really hoped that the government parties today could support a proposal even in so-called milder forms – if you can use such an expression about it – for gender mutilation. It's very hard to imagine that any form of sexual mutilation can happen negligently. We also want to have gender-neutral care avoidance provisions. Injury is traumatic for adults and, in particular, for children. Therefore, it is important that the law provides for good co-operation arrangements, schemes that are good for adults, but most important for children. This is why we are promoting proposals – which we also hope to support, perhaps in the last few years – on the non-discrimination of cohabitation, regardless of whether it is the child who lives with, who is responsible for the sabotage. With regard to the explanation of vote, we would like to inform you that we support the Left's proposal, No. 25 and 26. Proposal No. 27 we have for observation, and perhaps the government parties can propose that the protocol be annexed or sent to the Government for further substantive consideration. That would be a good idea for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e303	When the general part of the Penal Code was presented in 2005, the Labour Party and the Progress Party proposed that, in view of the low level of penalties, especially in cases of rape, the minimum penalties for killing and rape should be increased. This was not supported by the Right at the time. The chair of the Judicial Committee at that time, Right Trond Helleland, justified this by the fact that increasing the minimum penalties was an expression of distrust of the courts. The party would therefore not support the proposal. However, the Right now supports an increase in the minimum penalty. My question to the representative Octay Dahl is therefore: Have the Right now lost confidence in the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e308	The right has great confidence in the courts, but we are still sceptical about increasing the use of the minimum penalty. That's why we want to evaluate the impact of the changes in the laws that are taking place here – a proposal that the government parties should actually vote for, so that we can jointly realise the intentions we have. I'm going to admit that for the Right, this using the minimum penalty is challenging, because we're at risk of multiple acquittals. After careful review and reflection, we have come to the conclusion that, in doubt, we want to support the proposal as it exists, but then recommend the Workers' Party to vote in favour of our proposal to evaluate the effect of it, so that we realize the intention we now have in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e313	The size has been several times within the Progress Party’s National Meeting on Active Death Assistance. We know that the Right has ambition to form government together with the Advance Party. The right will now vote for the option as it exists. It conflicts with the decision of the Progress Party at the national meeting. Then my question is: how will the Right deal with the proposals of the Advance Party if there is a government made up of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e318	The answer to that is that we are probably dealing with it in the same way as the Workers' Party has had to deal with the representative's party being against NATO, against the EEA and against oil drilling in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e323	I want to go back to the question from Bjørnflaten, as I felt that the representative Oktay Dahl in a nice way did not want to answer. You didn't say anything in that answer about what's happened, which makes Right now go in for the minimum penalty. Why has a turnaround?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e328	First, I would like to point out that you do not address representatives with ‘you’. So when we realize that the Progress Party is careful with formalities, I'm going to be the same. So I'm recommending that you use the right form of prosecution in the future. Otherwise, I answered the question to the Workers' Party by referring to the evaluation. If the Workers' Party has not realised that we have actually changed our position, in doubt, I have to say it is challenging to understand what the question is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e335	The President also has a question for the representative, Mr Dahl. There are three proposals from the Right. That is the proposal No. 21, 22, and 23. Does the Right want to continue to promote these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e339	Of course. I was going to take them up in a later article, but I can do it now – and get a confirmation of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e344	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to. We're going back to the regular list of speakers. The next speaker is Akhtar Chaudhry, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e349	There seems to be an error with respect to the setting, because SV got 10 minutes of speaking time in the committee. Can the chairman of the committee confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e354	The president would like to stress that we have voted on the schedule with regard to speaking time, and there are 5 minutes indicated. The representative of Chaudhry may come back later with a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e357	It's been 107 years since this country got the penal code that Stortinget is going to reform today. That the law has been in place for 107 years, says a little bit about the steps it takes to bring it into line with today's society, how today's Nordics think, and what principles they use in terms of justice, legal certainty and criminal justice, and what we think today is to be the first step in thinking about legal protection. 107 years ago, the Penal Code had property and honor as its main concepts. Today’s Norway places violence and abuse in the centre, especially against women and children. The law bears the mark of taking the whole community seriously – not just men and everything that is traditionally related to men. The draft law we are discussing today is based on three legal principles: Strict responses must be made to those who commit serious crimes that affect life, health and sexual integrity. A humane and flexible criminal prosecution and enforcement of penalties should only be allowed to be used against acts which result in harm or risk of harm to interests for which society should protect. The SV and the red-green government have an active, comprehensive fight against crime as their leading star. We have said it earlier from this pulpit, and repeat it today, that ensuring security in society is a welfare issue and therefore a great public responsibility. Therefore, combating crime is an important welfare policy for us. Our government basis – the Soria-Moria Declaration – is clear that the level of punishment for rape, murder, gross violence and moral crimes must have a significant increase. We can safely say that we're delivering at this point today. It is important for us to establish that crimes that violate the individual, such as gross violence and rape, for reasons of general prevention, are to be strongly prosecuted. I still believe that we have to try to understand how a violent person thinks. I don't think if the threshold of violence is raised or lowered, one year up or a year down, at the level of punishment, it will affect the way the violent person thinks. The most important thing, then, is that we constantly remember that the most important things are the attitudes. We must therefore continue to work to create attitudes against violence and violation of the integrity of other people. Furthermore, we must ensure that everything that promotes violence is minimised. And there's a problem with the Progress Party, which likes to be representatives of a law and order party. They lower taxes on alcohol, and they open up drinking 24 hours a day. It does not coincide with the party's policy in terms of law and order. Violence in close relationships is one of the worst things a person can experience because you get hurt – not least because you are hurt by someone you trust, maybe by someone you have a love relationship with, or by someone you may be dependent on care from. The same applies to genital mutilation. That's why it's very important for us, from SVS, on the part of the government parties, to point out that we don't accept this kind of violence. That's why we're raising the penalty framework here. We want to make it possible for girls to have time to become independent, to be able to react and get acquainted with their emotional reactions before any limitation period expires. That is why we are increasing the limitation period for, inter alia, genital mutilation, which is a gross infringement of the individual. Finally, I would like to say that we have a comprehensive policy. Here we can refer to all the good measures that have been taken to ensure that the victims are also taken care of, for example. shall receive the necessary assistance and protection. The spiral of violence must be broken. There we have set in motion a lot of measures. Victims shall be offered organised calls, etc. This shows that the red-green government has a comprehensive criminal policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e397	In several articles and lines here, reference has been made to the treatment during the previous period. My question to the SV representative is: During the last reading, SV voted against raising the penalty framework for gross violence. What has caused SV to turn around during this treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e402	We have never been very familiar with the fact that gross violence is to be charged in accordance with people's legal opinion. Not least, the charge shall be general preventive and shall provide a clear response to the offender. That is why we believe that today’s attitude is consistent with our policy – both in the past and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e407	Representative Chaudhry's colleagues Karin Andersen, Hallgeir Langeland and May Hansen propose to introduce their own constitutional provisions on protection against discrimination on grounds of sex and discrimination against minorities, which are fully in line with Højre's proposal, No. 21, on changes in criminal law. That proposal could have a majority if the SV voted in favour of it today – and we can implement it in a short time. What is the background to SV voting against such a necessary legislative change, which is agreed upon, and would rather wait for a constitutional proposal to be put to the vote, which requires a two-thirds majority at the end of the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e412	Meg Bekand was contacted on the right when the Constitutional Bill was promoted in Stortinget. Right chose not to be on it. I note that the right now agrees with the substance of the proposal. I'm really happy about that. That means that there can actually be a majority for the proposal in Stortingen next round. We believe that this proposal deserves a constitutional change and a constitutional protection, not just a simple law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e417	I have to say it's a little interesting that you think the Constitution is more practical than legal changes when it comes to implementing policies. Can the representative of Chaudhry clarify how waiting for a possible constitutional change can have more effect than adopting a legislative change that can be applied in the judicial system immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e423	I do not mean to have said that it is more practical. I actually said that Constitutional protection has more weight than a single law. The most important thing is that a law with the kind of substance that we're talking about here has the weight it needs. So we wait until the Constitutional Bill is discussed in Stortinget. I would like to take with me that the Right agrees with the substance, and expect that the Right votes in favour of the proposal when it comes to consideration in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e431	It is such that the Christian People's Party is not part of the Judicial Committee. I have to say that it is a solid work done in the committee in connection with this setting of new criminal law. So all the honors of the committee and the rapporteur. I want to dwell two seconds on the fact that there is broad political agreement on many of the proposals in the vote and on what has been the starting point of the Government. It is incredibly important for those who are going to operate this law that there is broad consensus, so that you can assume that it will also last over time. If you look at it historically, I must say that it is well worth noting that from SV to the Progress Party there is so much consensus attached to the individual paragraphs and penalties. It's quite remarkable. Security and legal certainty are key values in a democratic society. Ensuring these is one of the most fundamental tasks of the state. Here, criminal law is an important part. But as I said, it's also important to think completely. The Penal Code is one piece. At the same time, we must prevent better. This is true in many of the other policies we set the framework for, among others. here in the house We have to figure out more. It's unsustainable when the police have to make priorities that actually go into people's sense of justice. Here it's enough to talk about the many settlements in cases with a known perpetrator. I will not address the resource situation in the police, but it is clear in the context that the entire criminal system is important for the overall level of confidence to be as high as possible. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the clear approach taken to lifting the penalties for rape, gross violence and murder. We have also been particularly concerned about beating down violence and assault on women and children. We therefore fully support the proposals in these areas. However, we also support the proposals made by the minority on the tightening of penalties for sexual harassment. We also support the proposal for a zero-tolerance strategy promoted by the Progress Party. I want to go over to, with the short time I have, to mention something that has been important to us, namely drug abuse. There was, of course, a strong line of legalisation among the majority of the Penitentiary Commission. I am pleased that both the Government and the majority here have unanimously gone the opposite way of the majority of the Commission did. As far as our own proposals are concerned, I would like to address these. First of all, we want a second limitation period for sexual intercourse with children, even in the case of sexual activity, as it is called in parts of the paragraphs. We want to extend the proposal that the limitation period should not start until the age of 18, to include more paragraphs than the Committee is in favour of. In addition, we want to maintain today's paragraph in respect of renunciation and in relation to blasphemy, and promote proposals in line with this. Moreover, the Christian People's Party will vote for a number of minority proposals. We've told you about that. There are so many that I don't have time to go through it, but it gets closer during voting. But I can mention that this applies, among other things. the proposal to review the so-called HIV paragraph and the proposal from the Left on the follow-up to the RAC. Several other important proposals will be supported here in Odelstinget, and in Stortinget the proposals that are subsequently sent over there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e452	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e457	The Christian People's Party and the Labour Party have largely some in the field of justice policy. Then I'm thinking about this with the idea of whole-life, and not going out and leading an event-oriented justice policy. I am also pleased that the representative mentions the issue of the Russian policy, which we have been side by side with. But I want to get back to the representative's own line to the Progress Party. The hoof has gone out and said that seriously ill people need people with warm hearts and warm hands and not a poison syringe, which I totally agree with. Is it possible, then, for the Christian People's Party to support a government in which the greatest and most important party on the bourgeois side, the Advance Party, will probably propose just active death aid in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e464	It could be tempting to have a longer debate on such an important topic. There's no doubt about what our attitude to this is. And as the representative Heggø was in it, there is a clear distinction between the decision that the Progress Party has taken at its national meeting and the Christian People's Party stands for. When it comes to cooperation between the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, I think we explained it quite well at our national meeting, so that the concerns of the representative Heggø have in that way, I think she can lie down. At the same time, within the scope of the Justice Committee, we have under two governments where the Christian People's Party was a member, had constructive cooperation with the Progress Party, so the picture is not completely black and white, as it is often not in the domain of justice policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e473	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e476	I share the view that the committee has done a solid job. But there is basically solid work on the part of the department. I think there is reason to note that there is a broad coincidence between the general part of the 2005 Penal Code, presented by the previous government, and the specific part, now presented. It's a broad coincidence. It is a continuation of a humane and flexible criminal policy, and it is a strengthening of some important values: life, health and sexual integrity. In the past, there has been agreement on the fight against organised crime, and the Stortinget has also dealt with terrorism, where, in the overwhelming sense, there was consistency between the 2002 legislation and the 2008 legislation. The basic idea of the 1902 penal code, which was very modern for its time, and which replaced other criminal thinking, was to be humane and flexible. You should see the individual when the punishment was measured. You shouldn't see the individual as part of the collective, and you shouldn't be operating with cumulative criminal regimes, like in practice, to say it in popular Norwegian, would be a variation of the American way of thinking about one, two, three and away with him! These lines have gone on, but with the additions that a modern age requires in terms of data crime, organized crime, trafficking, sexual harassment and other serious criminal relations. It also emerges from this law that, in a series of contexts, the penalty will be triggered by reactions such as conflict councils, social sanctions and other means, but in important areas, such as sexual integrity, whether in the case of adults or children, in the case of violence, killing and attacks on health, one will be more stringent and respond more stringently. The left shares the assessment made by the ministry as a whole in the approach to these issues, which emerges from the law's preparatory work here today. So I think there was a reason to mark this first. I think it's the general one, it's the overall one, it's the coincidence in criminal policy thinking – that's a criminal policy that is in practice humane and flexible, but strict in important areas. So I'll briefly go into how we vote, because I think there's a reason to do that. First our own suggestions. We promote a proposal with an amended heading for Section 299. We are of the opinion that it should not change the content of the minimum penalty imposed. There I would also say that I have come to the conclusion that it is right to have a minimum sentence of three years. Why did I do that? Well, I have had to say, as most people do, that the courts do not follow what the Great Britain has done for a long time. I have to take note of the RAC's investigation. And when I take that into account, the consequences for the Left are that we're voting for a minimum sentence of three years. In a non-profit world, we wouldn't have it like this, but we don't have a non-profit world at this point. Then we have to deal with it that way. We are also impatient about the follow-up to the Rape Committee. That is why we have put forward two concrete proposals on that, the proposals No. 26 and 27. In the case of opposition proposals, we will vote in favour of one of the sentencings promoted by the opposition, and that is the penalty imposed on the right of access, i.e. the first paragraph of Section 261. We do not vote in favour of the other criminal orders, either from the Right and the Progress Party together or from the Progress Party alone. With regard to the penal order of the Christian People's Party, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 28 on the concrete calculation of the limitation period in the criminal order referred to. We are not voting in favour of the proposals. 29 and 30. With regard to the proposals put forward verbally, I would just like to say the following: we are voting against proposals No. 2 and 3 and we are voting in favour of the proposals. 4-6. We shall, if necessary, vote in favour of proposal No. 7, but I would like to say that if you first react to a behavior that is aggressive or annoying, it should apply more than beggaring. This should apply to sales and begging. The parties that, in their time, agreed on this, also had prostitution, because we, for various reasons, opposed the criminalisation of whores. That is why the Left has put forward proposal No. 25-digit number We are voting against proposal No. 8, we are voting in favour of the proposal No. 9-11, we are voting against proposal No. 12-20, and we are voting in favour of the proposals. 21-23. I am aware that a series of these proposals will only be discussed later in Stortinget, but because the Left is not in the Committee, I choose this way to register where we stand. But to end where I started, I think it is a pleasure that, in a country like Norway, we can have such a broad coincidence in the idea of punishment and the use of punishment, and not least where not to use punishment, as it is in the general part of the Penal Code in 2005 and in the special section that we are dealing with here today. I think there is reason to be satisfied with that – not self-satisfied, but satisfied in the sense that it shows that there are some broad lines to keep. And that should be true when you think of punishment in a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e507	First of all, I am glad that we again show that we largely agree with the Left Party of Justice policy. It also shows this case. The representative, Mr Dørum, was concerned about why he proposed proposal No. 24, to amend Section 299 and the heading there. He stated that he thought it would not affect the minimum penalty. It's legal food, so I'm not going to go into it. My question is, what is so crucial about changing the heading of this paragraph, all the time you agree that we should have a minimum penalty, so let the penalty for rape in the rest of the provision? Does the left really not propose any changes to the paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e516	First of all, I would like to insist that the punishment for sexual assault, including those that are qualitatively defined as a frame of minimum punishment, and that I have checked with law-enforcement officers, we stand firm. When we've chosen to change the heading right here, and just here, it's because there are some variations of life where having the term raped on it can be a stigma that I don't want you to have. I want to think so nuanced that there might be such situations, even if there are obvious situations, because that's what's the general reason for that. So it's an attempt to nuance. I feel that the sitting government has tried to be precise and nuanced in a lot of ways – it is not an attempt to weaken the real content of the offender, that is, the violation that is taking place. That's my reason. I am grateful that the question was asked, because then I got to explain it better than I could in my short post on the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e524	As I know the Left Party, there is a party that has always been strongly attached to freedom of expression. When Dørum was the Council of State, he presented – in 2005 – a proposal for general criminal law proposing that the Blasphemi paragraph be preserved. My question to the representative, Mr Dørum, is whether he is more comfortable with the red-green government's proposal for a new penal code, where it is proposed that the blasphemy paragraph be removed than he was with his own proposal for a new general penal code, where it was proposed to preserve the blasphemy paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e529	This is a story of two rounds of compromises – first a compromise in Bondevik II and then a compromise in the red-green government, after which the Left was freed from the compromise after the government change, and then the red-green government was freed from itself after it discovered that the compromise was basically a little hopeless. Thus, with the pleasant situation – with the exception of the Christian People's Party, which has a fundamental vision – one ends up choosing to remove it. I did not hide it when I presented the freedom of expression provision to the Constitution in its time, that it was the way it was. So we've set free two parties here: me, by not compromising with others, and the red-greens, after having a colloquium group with themselves in all publicity, which led to us removing the blasphemy rule. So we can congratulate each other for not having it from now on. To put it briefly, God does not need protection. The Lord takes care of himself. Humans have sometimes needed protection, but humans have to endure all opinions. It's part of the strength of our society that it is. I think the representative and I really agree, President – you have to remember to talk via the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e536	Excellent! Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e541	The proposition that Odelstinget is dealing with today marks the end of over 30 years of work on a completely new penal code. It was the so-called criminal report of 1978 – a famous one – that was the starting point for this extensive and time-consuming legislative work. There is reason to express great thanks both to former governments and, not least, to staff members of the Ministry of Justice. I am glad that the opposition also sees the enormous work that lies there, and we owe them great thanks. It is a good basis for effective criminal justice for the future. The reason why the Ministry of Justice took the initiative in criminal law reform more than 30 years ago was that social conditions and the view of the use of punishment had changed considerably since the adoption of the applicable criminal law in 1902. That's why I called this a hundred-year project. Through the criminal notice, the Ministry of Justice wanted to invite the Ministry of Justice in the 1970s to a comprehensive criminal policy debate which was to be followed by a criminal law reform. We're at the end of a very long process. We're lucky to be allowed to move this ashore. The implementation of this criminal law reform has been a laborious and time-consuming work, in which the finalisation has taken place in three stages: the first stage was completed by the adoption of the general part in 2005. Many good general principles were proposed by the previous government, crushed and adopted by the Grand Duchy by a broad majority. The size of this Decision provided important guidance for further work on the design of the special part. In particular, this applies to the general guidelines on the use of penalties and the objective of greater harmonisation between the various offences as regards the severity of the penalties to be imposed. The second stage of the finalisation work was the adoption of the first part of the special part in spring 2008. In this adoption, the new Penal Code introduced new penalties which clearly demonstrate that criminal law needs to be adapted to new social conditions and threats. The chapters on genocide, etc. and terrorist acts are the result of the internationalisation of criminal law by the task of protecting both national and international societies against a new form of crime. The proposition that Odelstinget is now dealing with constitutes the final step in the finalisation of the criminal law reform. The proposition contains the remaining chapters in a special section, inter alia: important chapters on violent offences, sexual offences and the protection of public health and the external environment. The remaining chapters which Odelstinget now has to deal with include the most frequently used penalties, which thus constitute so-called volume provisions in the overall picture of crime. The now implemented criminal law reform has been absolutely necessary. The view of the use of penalties and the content of penalties has changed considerably since the adoption of the penal code in 1902. Societal developments over the last 100 years have been formidable in many areas of life – including criminal policy leaders. For a long time, progress has been in the direction of a more just and humane view of the use of punishment. We're all supposed to be happy about that. This has made it necessary to rethink the undesirable behaviour that can be met with punishment and the content of the punishment. The new penal code therefore represents both decriminalisation of some offences and recriminalisation. For example, it is no longer possible to deal with abuses of dignity – compensation and upliftment are, according to the proposal, the legal responses to violations of honour and reputation. Nor is the determination of bladder faecality continued. Much has been said, written and thought here, and the final solution I think we can all be satisfied with. The new penal code — and the criminal health notification, which was promoted last autumn — is the result of this necessary consideration of these fundamental criminal policy issues. They're connected, they mean something to us, it can have a big impact on the crime scene. The work on new criminal law has carefully assessed the undesirable actions a modern society can face with the strictest means of coercion we are facing, namely the punishment, while at the same time representing the fair and humane thinking of the content of the sentence. One thing is to discuss the length of punishment, another is to fill the sentence with sensible content. The applicable criminal law can be widely claimed to have been written by and for men. The new penal code clearly distinguishes in several areas from the current thinking on the role and design of criminal law. In this context, I would like to highlight the special attention devoted to the establishment of better criminal protection for women and children. That is why I am very pleased that the committee has joined the proposals in the proposal so broadly and so strongly. The provision of better criminal protection for children and women, including: in the form of a significant increase in the penalties for abuse in close relations and in their own criminal orders for sexual abuse against children, cannot be sufficiently emphasised. I am pleased that the Committee has followed up my input in a letter to the Committee to extend the obligation of severance to include serious abuse in close relations. In the extension of what has been said about significantly tightening the penalty for abuse in close relations, I would like to stress that Ot.prp. No 22 realises major criminal policy objectives in the Soria Moria Declaration of Enhanced Punishment for Serious Violence, Killing and Sexual Crimes. We said we should do it, and we're doing it now. In general, it is proposed that the penalty should be increased by approx. 1/3, but for some crimes of violence, a double penalty is proposed. To this, I would like to emphasise that the way in which the criminal tightening is carried out is completely new. It is good that we have a broad majority on this in Stortinget as well. It gives a clear signal to Norwegian courts. The very reason today that the criminal law – the special part – is actually adopted in full is also an argument for the courts to listen. In the past, general opinions – either in budgetary or legislative comments or whatever it may be – have been meted out that the punishment should become more severe, or that the punishment is too low and should be lifted. These are good examples of what Nils Jareborg, Swedish legal professor, refers to as: « Legislators have the most imaginative views of the effect of their decisions, of what you need to keep crime at a certain level and of the effects of raising or lowering a penalty scale». The government has therefore adopted a new strategy to adjust the level of penalties up: a review of case law has provided an empirical basis for concrete indication of the level of penalties to be lifted and the extent to which they should be raised. I am convinced that this strategy is very suitable for achieving the desired level of punishment, because in this way the courts are given clear signals from the legislator on what should be the normal level of penalties for a number of types of offences. At the same time, I would like to stress that this proposal for a tightening of penalties is not intended in any way to restrict the practical exercise of judgment by the Court of Justice in criminal proceedings or the dynamic development of the level of penalties. I am very pleased that an overall Judicial Committee has joined in the implementation of the Penal Sharpening proposal and the increase in the level of penalties proposed. In addition, I would like to stress that it is commendable that the Committee is clear that the signaled level of penalties should apply as soon as the penal code is adopted in the Stortinget. The criminal framework and the level of penalties for the various offences shall, as far as possible, reflect how serious society considers a crime to be in relation to another offence. In the last two decades, there has been a significant increase in penalties for some offences. This has led to the fact that, based on the level of penalties, it may appear that the offence in question is more serious than what is traditionally perceived as a more serious offence. Such a development has also created wonder and has been a source of dissatisfaction among the people most and politicians. Therefore, as part of the overall review of criminal law, an adjustment has been made to the criminal framework for individual offences in order to give a greater impression of the seriousness of the crime to which the society considers it to be related to other offences. If the work on new criminal law has been completed by the adoption of the proposal under consideration by Odelstinget today, some legislative and technical adjustments still need to be made in order for the new criminal law to come into force. The main legislative task is to adapt the criminal procedural law to the new criminal law, first and foremost to adjust the way in which the prosecution competence is to be distributed between the actors within the prosecution authority and, second, to adapt access to the use of investigation methods to the new criminal framework. I'm not going to take my whole script, but I've now been reviewing the main proposals for changes to the new penal code. These have their backgrounds in changing social conditions, such as: development of computer technologies, partly in changed perceptions of values, more stringent views on privacy, etc. I believe that the criminal law that Odelstinget is dealing with today is a criminal law that takes account of the need to send a clear and clear signal: it is strict in some areas, but at the same time it also meets the need to signal humanism in the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e585	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e588	The Council of State has made it clear that it is now possible for the courts to address the new criminal provisions adopted during the evening. I perceived far on the way that the Council of State now opened up for some shortcuts here. My understanding of it is that a new practice is to be established, and it is done through court decisions. Or is it that the Council of State sees it possible to run slums here, and get to the goal faster than what we have tradition for here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e593	First, I have to say that I am a little bit wondering about the question, because it contributes in many ways to weakening the clear signal coming from an overall committee, both on the level of penalties and also on the methodology used. I can see that everyone is standing together about it. My experience in criminal law is that when a criminal measure is taken, when a person has a liberal criminal framework, and is often in a lower position, there are clear and clear political signals of value. A clearer political signal than what is given here in Odelstinget today cannot be given because we see the law in its entirety. It is grouped together, and legal work has pointed to specific issues and also indicated a new level of normality. Therefore, I believe that this is a political signal that is so clear that it must also be emphasised when measuring penalties under the old criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e600	I want to commend the Council of State for an enormous commitment to victims of assault. The state councils have had that for a long time. I expect it was a forgetfulness that only women and children were mentioned; it also applies to men. My question is in the extension of the Progress Party: Will the State Council take the initiative to implement amendments to the 1902 Act relating to assault and rape following patterns of what is now being done in relation to parenting and sexual mutilation, such as: referred to in the Evening Post? You want things to happen now. And in relation to what is in today's Evening Post: What is the plan referred to in the Evening Post that the Stortinget has not been informed about when journalists get the idea that this will happen by 2012? The Stortinget has not received any information about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e607	First of all, thank you for the honor. I'll take that. With regard to the issue of abuse, there is reason to stress that men who are victims of abuse, whether young boys, older boys or men, should have absolute protection of the provisions in force. Let there be no doubt about it. So to the question of making changes to the old penal code: we're not going to do that. We believe that many of the penal frameworks in force in the 1902 Act, and I also believe that the Right, are so well aware that when there are so clear political signals that come to mind when dealing with the criminal law today, it becomes important for criminal proceedings even after the 1902 Act. As far as the issue of entry into force is concerned, it is clear that we are planning to enter into force as soon as possible, because we believe that this is an important law. But there are many things that need to be put in place, and it's hard to predict. I can't vouch for the quote in the evening post, because I haven't read that sail. We are planning a rapid entry into force, but we are looking forward to 2011-2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e618	It is good that this should come into force as soon as possible. The left – and that's why I took the floor now – agrees with the comments related to the idea of punishment. I told the pulpit instead that we accepted the principles of the law's preprocessor and of the law of Odelstinget. I will not comment further on how the courts should act. Those who want to read the odelstungsdebat will have to do it. Then leave it. I took the floor to ask the Council of State a question, since there is so much emphasis on it in the law we have today, to fight attacks on sexual integrity. It's a very wide range. I am concerned about how the Council of States is now looking at the pressure to follow up the various initiatives of the Rape Committee, because it is very important that there is pressure on it. I know the Council of State's commitment, but I also have some knowledge of what we can call resistance's spirit in governance structures – despite the involvement of the Council of State. I would like to have some bold speech at this point on this day in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e628	We set up the Rape Committee because we believe that something has to be done for those at risk of rape, and we also believe that the advice we received from the Rape Committee is good advice. But we cannot thereby give any guarantee that we are going to follow everyone. Regarding the question of an aid lawyer, I believe we have delivered. When it comes to the issue of the reception of rape, of which the sample was also very concerned, we have chosen to follow it up. When it comes to the issue of children who are being raped, we have chosen to follow the concept of children's home. Not least with the DNA reform, with the opportunity now to make it easier to get the right person to do it, we have chosen to follow this up. At the same time, I believe that there is a need to have a central organisation in the police department in relation to this work, and that is why we had a few posts already for the current year. The representative Dørum knows that it takes a long time to make a government budget, but it was as fast as we could in relation to the rape commission. Then we'll see what future will bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e637	It's interesting to look at the interaction between the powers we have, the executive, the legislator and the judge. The judicial committee of the previous period was extremely concerned, perhaps also frustrated by the lack of signals, or that the signals were not entirely taken by the courts when relatively clear signals were given from the legislative assembly. I don't know if this is any of the background to the fact that the Minister of Justice has spent a lot of time and, interestingly enough, has also been subjected to some court decisions in the proposition to mark what penalties you want. So I really want to challenge the Council of State a little bit more in principle on how he now assesses the follow-up to the political signals given by the legislative assembly in the other bodies we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e644	This, in my view, is the most exciting debate in view of this legislative work, and I believe that we must now follow closely how the courts use these new signals. I've been reviewing all the rape sentences in the last ten years to look at the evolution of the level of punishment, and we see a doubling of the level of punishment. So the courts have been responsive to signals before, but according to the Christian People's Party's opinion in the previous period, and many more too, that was not enough. So there's a little bit of a way between standing in the Stortinget hiking hall opposite P4 when we're facing a concrete case and we think it's too low a punishment, until what we're doing in Stortinget. So we're dealing with a hundred-year project, an overall assessment. The size is total, we've done concrete work to point out where we think the normal level should be. This is the most obvious political signal in terms of the level of punishment, which, in my opinion, has been given by the Storting. So I'm therefore optimistic. This I think will be noticed. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e651	During this period, the Council of State has been very concerned that children should not be subjected to abuse, either here in Norway or abroad. In the Police Forum some time back, there was an article about a system in place in England, which alerts the authorities of other countries when paedophiles convicted travel abroad. When the Council of State is so concerned and concerned about children who are being abused, why is it not the Council of State willing to look at an investigation into such an international warning system in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e658	This is very much taken on the side in relation to what we are dealing with today. We'll deal with the criminal code for pedophiles in that case. So I think, with respect to reporting, that when it comes to such important issues, it's hard to get involved in such issues when I haven't read the Police Forum yet. Because I think it deserves attention and also a serious political handling. But on the issue of international cooperation, I have to say that what is now being done in relation to both Europol and Eurojust, and the international cooperation in criminal policy that has been established, which will also be able to catch people with paedophile traits that are particularly active on the Internet, is the most important thing we can do internationally. I think we're going to be careful to think that there's some easy solution, that you can almost notify people in the cabin and in the torment, whether they're doomed, or even that they're not doomed. I have little faith that it will be particularly effective. But of course, when it comes to proposals in this field, we have to be open to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e665	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e668	This is a historic day, there are a lot of people today who have said. We must be proud of some and each of us to be allowed to attend and deal with the important matter that this penal code is. When I came into the Justice Committee almost four years ago, the first representative was Jan Arild Ellingsen who gave me, Innst. O. No 72 for 2004-2005. For those who don't know what it is, I can mention that it's the setting of the last criminal law. Read this, and you'll see what all this is all about, was Ellingsen's comment. I guess that's one of the most widely read documents. Justice policy is a broad concept. Everything is basically related to everything. It's a circle -- a bad circle, maybe someone's saying -- but a circle that maybe should have been a chain that had ended: we have the police as a law enforcement officer, we have the courts as a judge, and we have the criminal code that executes. This Judicial Committee has had heated debates on the resources of the police to enforce the law, those to provide security to society and prevent it. Just a month ago, we debated the criminal welfare report, the criminal execution. You have to fill the sentence with sensible content, as the Council of State said in its statement. Today, the criminal law itself, the criminal justice system, the reactions to criminal acts, criminal offences. Everything's connected. A secure society is the goal of justice policy. ‘punishment is the most powerful means of governing behaviour in society’, said a unanimous committee in the Council. [[...]] O nr. Seventy-two. People's perception of justice is often talked about a lot. What is people's sense of justice in terms of punishment? Is that what people see as reasonable from the act that has been committed? For example, I can. mention: The violence incident at Karl Johan for a time ago — gross violence, 50-day sentence killing — which also receives only a few years, compared to 10 years imprisonment for Munch theft eight years for gross violence against an innocent child with death resulting in I could frame up a lot of examples that might be against people's perception of justice. The Progress Party believes that it is now high time – and very pleased – that the other parties now realise the seriousness of the most serious acts of violence, and adjust the penalties. The Progress Party has proposed this several times this period, but the counter-arguments have been that we should wait for treatment today. Finally, this day is here, and then maybe we could end this post and just give some credit for getting where we're going today. But no, the Progress Party is, in fact, still disappointed. We are disappointed that the criminal framework and the level of penalties should be raised in many more areas. The reality today is that the government is reducing the level of penalties in several important fields, which the Progress Party believes are wrong signals to send out. The penalty for theft is lowered, the penalty for the loss is lowered, the penalty for the crime is lowered, and the penalty for the helri is lowered. What are the signals when we send in these subjects where there are the darkest numbers? Zero tolerance should have been for this. These are completely wrong signals, and this is something we shouldn't have done at all. What about the preventive effect? What about people's perception of justice? And rehabilitation? Yeah, I actually said rehabilitation. The state council and I were at the cinema yesterday and saw inmates and debt. There we met Beate from Bredtveit prison. She gave a drug sentence of two years and had eight months left. Who had thought that she would say that she was happy that she had received a long sentence? She actually needed time to land, she needed time to rehabilitate, and she needed time to get her life in order. Even the prison officers say the same thing, that if we have to get a real rehabilitation, short judges are an obstacle. The job they're going to do for the convicted to get them back to the right place, takes time. But stricter penalties are not just for this. It seems preventative, it's in line with people's perception of justice and, not least, a punishment for having committed a criminal act. It is, once again, incredibly disappointing that the government is now setting down the penalties for the crime of profit. Here the criminal runway often starts. That's why we think it's very disappointing that the government doesn't do anything about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e712	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e715	There are important changes to the criminal law that are being passed today. Violence is itself criminal. At the same time, we know that violence produces violence. Anyone who grows up in a home marked by violence is at greater risk of developing violent behavior himself. Violence in close relationships is thus both a type of crime that needs to be prevented and a risk factor for all the children who have childhood affected by a violent home environment. I am pleased that the new penal code strengthens the punishment and increases the penalties for serious violence in close relationships and that family violence is now to be penalised much more severely. It is absolutely necessary that we all pay attention to the mess that prevails in many thousands of Norwegian homes. We know that there is a strong link between a difficult childhood and mental illness in adulthood. Children live their lives now, and they have the right to be well, the children's representative Reidar Hjermann has pronounced. That's why it's so important and absolutely necessary that we, as adults, see the children, also the children of others. In the new penal code, all sexual abuse against children under 14 years of age will be regarded as a rape. This results in stricter penalties for infringements, and that is absolutely necessary. I agree with the Council of State Storberget, who has pointed out that Norwegian courts need to use more discretion in child distribution matters. A father who is violent and has beaten his mother should not automatically be allowed to associate with the children. Children should be protected from the fear they have felt by witnessing that mother is being beaten. In cases where violence ends up with deliberate killing, I personally believe that there should be no right of association for those who have committed the criminal act. I personally think that children should not be used as part of the treatment of a person who has mistreated and killed a parent with consideration. Of course, there are many aspects of a case, and I am glad that we have a justice system that works well and treats everyone fairly. Crime is a social problem that is best addressed through community-based policies and inclusion. Domestic violence is solved by caring about each other. By changing the penal code and tightening up the penalties for violence against children, the Minister of Justice has once again shown that he is taking the weakest seriously, namely the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e728	Economic crime poses major challenges to society and is a persistent threat to fundamental values on which the Norwegian welfare state is founded. Police say that the complexity of economic crime is deteriorating, and it is increasingly taking place in organised forms and with a high degree of internationalisation. The police themselves further say that the border between economic crime and other crime becomes less clear. Economic crime is often part of a gross, profit-driven crime. It was in this perspective that I was very surprised when I saw the proposal to decriminalise tax fraud – from the party that claims to be law and order. Then I started thinking a little bit backwards about episodes and statements on this topic earlier from the Progress Party and found out that this should not really surprise me. But what's fine is that today we have a majority that won't go in to decriminalize tax evasion. The reason for this was actually given when I referred to what the police themselves said. But the logic behind it can clearly be repeated with advantage: a great deal of the crime we have is economically motivated, whether it be about winning crimes, drug sales or crime. Common to those who generate money from such activity is that they need to whitewash their values or hide their values. In this respect, the red-green parties will call out a warning to decriminalise parts of the proposed section 378. The change proposed by the Progress Party will undoubtedly reduce the detection of not just the avoidance of funds from our common fund. It will also reduce the possibility of following the flow of money in many cases, which is crucial to discovering and clearing them. Together with the annual cut in the budget of the tax, customs and tax budgets and credit supervision and the somewhat unfortunate use of own resources by the Progress Party, which was much mentioned in the media last year, there is a clear picture of what the Progress Party really thinks about this type of crime. It is proof that the Progress Party will be tough on crime in selected areas, that the Progress Party will be tough on the weak, but will protect the strong. This fits into the profile where they're a party to the power of money. But it probably doesn't fit into the profile they're trying to have, the party for most people. Fortunately, most people don't think you should cheat on the treasure and steal from the common fund. Most people are concerned about detecting crime and will probably not reduce it by decriminalising tax fraud. Once again, we see that most people agree with a red-green policy. I have to say that this proposal is a little in contrast to the post by the representative Horne, where she talked about zero tolerance for winning crimes. We don't. We're not going to decriminalize it. But winning crimes are also a bit linked to the need to maintain the tax fictitious paragraph, because you need to either hide or launder what you earn on the winning crimes. So once again, we see that the Progress Party says one thing out, but it's suggesting something else in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e739	What is to be punished and how severe is to be punished? The Labour Party is pleased that we now have a more stringent legal protection for several vulnerable groups, in particular that children and women are more protected by law, and that the new criminal law increases the level of punishment for gross violence, killing, election and abuse in close relations. The last criminal law was from 1902, and when we are going to adopt today a law that will possibly apply new 100 years, at least for several decades, I must say that I feel that almost a little honour is being done to me when I am mentioned by name in the comments of the Committee on the Progress Party in order to defend the use of social punishment. On the other hand, the representative Ellingen is still left alone to comment on individual judgments that are not even valid. In the interview/debate it is referred to, I almost did not point out that in the Labour Party we could not comment on judgments that are not enforceable, but that the penal framework for gross power should be raised, which we are doing here today. Event-ridden, single-eyed justice policy and wearing hats as both a judging and a law-enforcement body; yes, the Progress Party is still on its own. In the criminal health report, the punishment that works – less crime – safer societies, we said that we should use more community punishment, precisely because it works – because one gets settled and then move on here in life. When you have a problem with alcohol, you should get some help to deal with this. Therefore, we also need to make more use of Section 12 and Section 16 and more drug programmes with judicial control. However, social penalties should not be used if the offence involves a prison sentence without any conditions of one year or more. The Criminal Service Notice shows that in the preliminary work of the law, it is not recommended to use the community penalty for serious acts of violence and corruption, which I fully agree with, and which I otherwise referred to in the debate under discussion. We know that one in two is back in prison in five years. In terms of social punishment, there are two out of ten. Some of the most important criteria for breaking a criminal racetrack are work and housing. Social punishment and the use of electronic housing can preserve jobs and housing. This is what the Progress Party is against. In fact, the Progress Party thought it was a good thing that 17-year-old Ole, who has a little too much money from Nav, went to prison and lost his job and his place of residence and joined a criminal network. It's more important than using electronic housing. And the idea of rehabilitation, progress in soning, which is decisive to stop relapse, is also a contradiction – not in words, but in action. Without rehabilitation and with an ever-increasing number of repeaters, this becomes a bad circle – to pay more severe penalties without progress, on the streets for new crime, back to prisons and punishments that don't work. The idea of health with the criminal health report and today's new penal code is what I'm going to think about in order for us to have a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e751	I'll try to take three short points. Although this law is not going to apply for a few years, the signals we send are in some cases so strong that you have to take it in. We know that now we're going towards summer, and we know that some girls – I don't have a number on it – can be taken out of the country and sexually mutilated. It's a very serious crime and a gross assault on children and girls. Then I hope that now we raise the penalty for this, gives a strong signal to those who may be thinking of doing this attack, and not least are taken as a positive signal by those who are working against such an assault. That's the one. Secondly, I would like to stress that through this law, we are going to exempt spouses and cohabitants from criminal liability if one of the parties has HIV and the other party agrees to unprotected sex. We think that will raise the quality of a lot of people. Then we're also going to work internationally to pick up more impulses to see how this paragraph and this legislation are going to work. Finally, I would like to raise one point: I have come across a brochure that the Progress Party has created and distributed on 1 May. I have a copy of this if the Progress Party might want it. It says that the red-green promised ‘to raise the level of punishment for rape, murder and gross violence’. It goes on to say: 'In proposals for new criminal law by the government, this is not proposed. ‘I’m not sure if ‘blank lies’ is a parliamentary term, but if so, I would like to use it very much – until the Progress Party tries to refute it. Yes, on some points we disagree. But it is not a good thing to write this in a brochure – a colored brochure – that is distributed, where you accuse the government parties and the government of breaking a promise, while the document that we are dealing with today shows the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e762	I had a few questions to the Council of State that he naturally did not have the right to answer in his post. One was about when one could expect the evaluation of the HIV paragraph to be presented to the Stortinget. The majority have a comment that is, in fact, quite similar to that of the minority, even if a specific request decision is not promoted. So I hope that the Council of State can give us a sort of timetable for when we can count on the Storting being invited to change the HIV paragraph, possibly, that we adopt today, based on up-to-date knowledge. Otherwise there was a debate on tax fraud, etc. Now I don't represent the Progress Party, but I think it's a bit special to go to the frontal attack on the Progress Party, and indirectly also the Right that might reign with the Progress Party, from those who are actually responsible for the fact that the extent of crime has not exactly fallen. The percentage of information has fallen, fewer cases are promoted for the district courts and more cases are ordered by the police in the area of financial crime. So I guess I have to say that it's not exactly the Progress Party or the Right that's responsible for a lot of tax fraud, it's actually this government that hasn't prioritised the police. So some closing comments on what everyone agrees on, with slightly different angles of incidence and doubt. This means that sexual acts with a few under 14 years of age, qualified ones, are automatically regarded as rape. I just want to end by saying that enforcement is not entirely unproblematic. We cannot discuss types of situations where it may seem unreasonable here today. That's not possible. But I think more than me see that there are some nuances here, not least those who have experienced rape, and those who at the same time debuted in a slightly more pleasant way when they were 14. There are actually the kind of people who have experience with both parts, and know the difference. They may need to be heard when implementing this part of the penal code. That's the main reason why we want to evaluate the proposal that is adopted that it is automatically raped if someone commits something against someone under 14 years of age. At the same time, it is important to consider whether this could lead to a refusal by the courts to rule on certain types of cases, because it is too strict to give three years of imprisonment and to risk multiple acquittals. I hope that the Council of State can say something about the problem that, after all, lies here, even if a unanimous increase decides today, because we believe it is right and a clear signal that we should take this type of crime seriously. At the same time, it is a demanding field. I know that many have been in doubt about joining this point, so it could be good to get some closing words from the Council of State in relation to that point also in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e773	It was good to get some temperature into the debate, so we can discuss some disagreements and not just consensus. First to Thomas Breen. It's actually the case that the current right in relation to the theft is three years. The government's proposal is two years, while the Progress Party has three years. For estimates, the current figure is just three years – two years is the Government’s proposal. For the record, it's five years – The government's proposal is three years. For extortion, there are five years in the current law – the government’s proposal is three years. This is a development that the Progress Party believes is a completely wrong signal to send out into society. Then to the representative Heggø. When we dealt with the criminal health report a month ago, we agreed very much. We agreed on the return guarantee, and we agreed that we should have a content in the compensation. But the Progress Party has been quite clear all the way that we are against taking the ransom on the outside instead of on the inside, and turning home to prison when homes become a place of refuge. That's why we've been very clear that we're against the Home Zone introduced by the Government. If I don't remember completely wrong, Ingrid Heggø was quite clear in his article in the criminal care debate and agreed that with longer penalties you will get better time for rehabilitation. The chairperson of the Committee said in an article that she has sent to all the country's newspapers: ‘Leader progress in housing and fewer leavers will lead to poorer return to society. This will mean that a number of people will not be prepared — trained — for the meeting with society on the day they finish the atonement.’ When even the prisoners and prison officers say that time is needed for rehabilitation, government parties also have to take this in, so that the rate of relapse can be reduced, as we all want, by giving the compensation content. They have to get the time they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e789	The perspectives that Horne's representative is now drawing up can be tempting – to imagine that we're going to create a criminal law where we're going to place people in certain places in proportion to what would be useful for their own rehabilitation. For us in the government parties, it does not represent an extension of the humanist tradition that has been in the minds of criminal law in Norway. The criminal offence is primarily an instrument for responding to criminal offences based on general prevention considerations, but also individual prevention considerations. If we had to evaluate it individually – that you should actually be in prison a little longer, because then we might be able to save you – I'm afraid we're going crazy. This does not mean that many will benefit from long stays behind the walls. But it only takes one thing: it's not the length of the punishment that is primarily a challenge – and it's rare I hear prisoners say what Horne heard yesterday – but it's what content we offer them, and the possibilities to continue that offer when you get released. That's where the break point is – get more progress, get offers even when you're released. As regards the question from the representative Dahl about when we would like to get back to Stortinget and the appropriate forums in connection with the question of the HIV paragraph, I have to be allowed to come back to it. We'll take seriously what's said in the committee's comments on it, but I'll have some time to look at it. But we're going to give an answer to that. With regard to the issue of tax evasion, I have to say that I believe that the representative Breen has a very good point in terms of what is in principle in these cases. For what is the Progress Party doing under § 378? Well, one makes it almost impossible to judge tax fraud by saying that he must have understood that it would lead to tax advantages for him. It's a very difficult proof theme. When you try to remove what is stated in the paragraph that you have not only understood, but that you should have understood, you raise the list of possibilities to judge in those matters. I think the Progress Party really has to take that on board. It's not something that represents zero tolerance in relation to tax fraud. At least it will make it very difficult to be effective in the prosecution. So to the question of rape and child. Let me just say that we've discussed that a lot. There has been nothing obvious. But what has been crucial for my part in defining abuse against children as rape is that the no is not clear. It is the quiet children who are literally calm, but who experience an equal degree of integrity impairment as adults experience when you are exposed to unwanted sexual behavior. It has been crucial when we have labeled it rape, because we perceive it as rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e800	First, until the debate that Solvency Horne drew up. As the Council of State was also concerned, it must be allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both in terms of criminal law and in terms of criminal law. We have been very, very clear that the serious crime, the serious crime perpetrated by individuals, such as assault, such as gross violence, must be severely punished, but that for some other types of crime, other types of criminal reaction have to be assessed. I'll register that, for example. Alternatives to violence, which are perhaps the best people who have the best experience of working to prevent new violence episodes, believe that we are actually going too far in this vision. The representative of Ellingsen was concerned with the question of retirement in his post. Now we're not really considering it – it took the Stortinget position to deal with general criminal law in 2005 – but I want to point out a few points. First of all, the more time it takes for a case to be filed, the more evidence assessment becomes more difficult, and this also increases the likelihood of a murder. That's that side of it. I'm also afraid that not having a limitation period will create some expectations of people that I don't think can be met. That's why we haven't gone into it. Then I want to ask the Progress Party about one relationship. In the context of the penal code, they disagree with the department's assessments of negligent killing and killing of loved ones, i.e. road-trafficking, where a parent may have been so unlucky as to kill his child by driving over it. The party disagrees with the argument and considers that the consideration of the victim must be the most important. But then the same members of the Progress Party say that they want to raise the blame for negligently killing to gross negligence, and justifying the fact that the increased occupational risk of many professional drivers being able to be stamped as a killer, even if one could show that kind of negligence, is difficult. Then I have to ask if it is such that the Progress Party has more care for professional transport drivers than for the victim and more care for professional transport drivers than for related people who would be so unfortunate to get hurt in order to kill some of them in case of negligence in the traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e809	Permitment, the normality principle in prison and the transition from high-risk sonar to open-ended out-of-work is what we know helps against re-entry criminals. In the setting of criminal law, the Progress Party has put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a change to the Penal Code so that the most serious criminal offences cannot be granted open acquittal and/or parole until four-fifths of the sentence are served and no open acquittal and/or parole shall be granted in cases of repetition.’; That's what I mean by 'not in words, but in action' when it comes to progressing, because in the context of the criminal services message they voted against more use of leave. They're brave and conformed to the normality principle, that one should get up in the morning, make his own food and live as normal as possible in prison to be able to manage when one comes out. And then I have a question: what is progression in soning – without leave and without going from a high-risk zone to an open-end or other alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e819	Solveig Horne has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e822	In my speech I spoke of punishment, the most severe reaction of society to the one who has committed a criminal act. The punishment, which should reflect the seriousness of the criminal act you have done, shall also be in accordance with people's legal opinion. It must be preventive, preventive, but it can also be rehabilitating. In the posts that the government parties have had here, I have heard that they can agree in need that longer penalties for rehabilitation can also be good. Progress in reconciliation, finally. The Progress Party will have more severe penalties and longer penalties, but one must have progress in restitution. One shall zone further before a get leave, and one shall be extinguished in such a way that one comes back to society as a normal human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e829	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e832	In order for there to be no doubt: Rape has been raped. It's a close-down. My question to the Council of State went to those who are less than 14 years old and who are not quiet – to those who are silent, and who are subjected to abuse, has a special need for protection – and is about: Will you follow developments and evaluate this based on two factors: the danger that there may be more acquittals because, in reality, the courts refuse to judge, and that there are situations where someone in 13 years and 11 months might behave completely different from the type of cases that we all want to encounter? It is not to be minimized – we are voting unanimously for this today – but it is important that we have a conscious relationship with the situations that may differ from the type cases we see here, precisely because the courts can feel that they are in a forced situation: either to clear up or to give three years of punishment. It is important that we are discussed in connection with this important change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e841	Just for the sake of order, since the representative Dahl has now twice said that the Storting will vote unanimously in favour of: the Left will not vote in favour of the penal code that uses the heading ‘rape’. I have explained it in an earlier article. The representative Dahl has basically reasoned very well for why I vote as I do, along with the rest of the left. I'm not going to extend the debate, except to say that I think this should be registered. The first time I thought it was a mistake, the second time I couldn't take it for a while, so I just had to give this little case information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e852	It's a little bit unclear to me what the problem really is. If it is the fact that the criminal law is now believed to have an effect in judicial practice from now on, and when it comes into force formally, it will also have an effect on the question of how to define and subscribe – i.e. what legal clauses you find to use when judging – this is something we will follow closely. It is clear that, first of all, we will look at how the level of penalties develops in case-law — that is the result of this. And there I am optimistic. I doubt whether the use of concepts in connection with sexual abuse of children, that it is defined as a rape, will help us to obtain more acquittals. I have had some understanding of this when it comes to minimum penalties, especially when it comes to developing offences – to put it that way – at least in cases like this. counterfeit money, where we've had some acquittals because the minimum penalty was so high against the crime you're actually facing. But here we're talking about very serious child abuse. I hardly think that the courts would turn back to use the term proposed, namely ‘rape’, in those cases. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that many have just asked for clarification of what this really is about. Then I also believe that one of the reasons we've been hanging around in terms of violence and assault on women, children and young men, is that for many, many years we've had a different approach to it culturally and criminally. It has, among other things, have also been reflected in language and in words. Therefore, it is important for the Government – and in my opinion, it should be important for those who now support this in the Storting – that we name the infringement by its real name.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 543]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e875	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e884	Most protective measures for persons exposed to violence and threats of violence from their current or former partners are based on the fact that it is the threatened person — mainly the woman — who bears the burden of the measures. Few measures, with the exception of visiting bans and contact bans, have been aimed at limiting the scope and freedom of movement of the potential perpetrator of violence. The government is now proposing instruments that restrict the freedom of the threater to a greater extent, in order to increase the security and security of victims of violence and threats. The government is now proposing a change to the penal code 1902 § 33 which opens up the possibility of electronic control of perpetrators by wearing a foothold that records whether they are in the area covered by the contact ban, so-called reverse violence alarm. Thereafter, the responsibility for violence and infringement will be placed with the perpetrator. Today the woman must bear the full responsibility by moving from place to place, having blocked the address and/or mobile violence alarm. It is important to stress that a reverse-violence alarm system is not a guarantee of the safety of offended people, but will contribute to increased protection. Electronic control will also not be able to replace the mobile violence alarm and other protective measures, but can help increase and improve the protection of women. With the reverse alarm of violence, the police are alerted as soon as the perpetrator moves into the area to which the ban applies, as opposed to a mobile alarm of violence, where the police call out depends on the woman herself notifying that the perpetrator is nearby. The Minister of Justice's letter to the Committee of 19 January 2009 argues that it may be appropriate to allow the use of electronic control also in the case of a restraining order, but questions arise as to whether such a system conflicts with Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Socialist Left, consider that it may be appropriate to provide for electronic control also in the context of criminal-prohibition visits. Criminal-prohibition visits as protective measures are most frequently used, and the timing of issues relating to violence in close relations is crucial. The majority of the Committee therefore recommends that: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an assessment, against the obligations arising from the European Convention on Human Rights, in order to allow the use of electronic control even in criminal proceedings. Sweden’s experience will be of great importance in this assessment.’ The majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to abolish the compulsory judicial review system of the decisions of the Public Prosecutor’s Office on a visit ban which does not include a ban on residence in their own homes. As regards the fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Paragraph 33a of the Criminal Code, the Committee recommends the following: ‘The second and third sentence of the eighth subparagraphs of Section 222a of the Criminal Procedure Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the retesting of the contact prohibitions and of the imposition of electronic controls.’ The Minister of Justice's letter to the Committee on 30 April of this year states that it is possible to use the equipment for electronic control in the case of a refusal of contact to notify the woman via the mobile alarm of the presence of convictions, even outside the areas of peace. The Committee agrees and recommends that: ‘The second sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 33 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following: Such control may only include the recording of information concerning the movement of the conviction within the areas covered by the contact prohibition, information concerning the movement of the conviction in the vicinity of offended persons, and information on missing signals from the control equipment.’ Finally, I want to make it clear – I have half a minute left – that this is one of a lot of measures that are needed to make women and children feel safe. This is one of the actions in the ‘turning point’, the Government’s action plan against violence in close relations. Many measures, including: strengthening the economy of crisis centres and providing family violence coordinators have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e917	We can't accept the chosen one, nor the one that goes in the private room. Psychiatric and physical power in close relationships is serious crime and a violation of fundamental human rights. Invert election alarm is a new piece of action to put the search light on the selected item in close relation. Fighting in close relationships is one of the main areas of this government's action, and I refer to the Action Plan 'turnpoint', which contains 50 actions. Many of these measures are already in place. 16 of these measures aim to ensure the necessary assistance and protection for the victims of violence in close relationships. In its ultimate consequence, the power leads to the loss of human life, and we know that between 20 and 30 pst. of all killed in the last years are made of current or previous loved, married, or cohabited. We also know that the time factor for the police to arrive on time can be fateful. To give a little more rest and security to the opt-out, one of these changes will allow you to check that a contact ban is being observed. Both the police and the electorate are given prior notice that the custodian is breaking the restraining order, and also that he is approaching outside the so - called "peaceable" sons. If we're going to be able to fight in close relationships, it's not enough to strengthen the offer to the victims after the election. For this reason, this 50-point plan also deals with several measures to break the electoral spiral, including: to strengthen the provision of treatment to the non-violent. The victim specified in close relationship shall be given an offer to arrange calls with the power user. The cooperation competence and knowledge of the auxiliaries are strengthened in several areas. In my view, the most important steps taken are to make selections in close relationships more visible – the fact that we no longer talk about house fractions, is important – and prevention by means of holding changes. Invert election alarm is an action that places responsibility on the authority, allowing the attacker to bear the burden. Few measures, with the exception of visitation bans and contact bans, focus on limiting the threat, or the choice of the respondent’s room for action. Those who then saw the focus on the privacy of the attacker, who can be traced, shoot over targets, in my view. The reverse-choice alarm system is not a guarantee of aggravation of security, but an incentive to increase protection. Electronic control will also not replace the mobile election alarm and other protective measures, but – again – it will help to increase protection and a little more viable everyday life. It is also possible that the introduction of electronic controls may have a preventive effect by experiencing the measure as an intervention in freedom of movement. In any case, this makes it much easier for the police to prove that the ban is actually broken. The Labour Party believes that it may be advisable to open the way for electronic control also in connection with criminal-prohibition visits. Because this is unspoiled land, we have asked for an outsourcing of the use of electronic control against the Convention on Human Rights, on which the case-speaker was involved, and for the Government to return with this to the Stortinget. The Labour Party also supports the removal of mandatory judicial review of the Public Prosecutor’s Office’s decision on the prohibition of visits. Since you have an unconditional right to a legal hearing, we believe that legal certainty is guaranteed. This approach will also help to reduce the amount of work done by the police, prosecutors and courts. It is important that this measure is not implemented until it is technically in place. In order not to contribute to even more uncertainty, we need to be sure that it is technically working before implementing such an important measure. That's why this also has some time. In conclusion, I would like to refer to a strong meeting I had with «Lise», which after many years had managed to separate from an elected husband. At first, when he said you're mine forever, she thought it was hot and sweet. Today, she said, there is a sign that he has found me again. We have previously debated fictitious identity, which is a very drastic step, but also very effective. But there the burden is placed only on the victim. With the reverse of the election alarm, the voter will be triggered. This is another step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e949	I want to pay tribute to the Government for this important matter that has been presented here today. It's totally unacceptable with violence against the people involved. Here, as the previous speaker said, all instruments must be used. It almost doesn't go for a week without reading about episodes where either ex-husbands, ex-boyfriends or people in close relationships threaten and kill their former partners or others. We must have the means to increase the safety and security of victims who are exposed to violence and threats. Today, the threatened ones bear the burden. I am pleased that the responsibility is finally placed where it belongs – with the perpetrator. Nevertheless, we must not allow this to become a sleeping cushion. It is very good to have both types of violent alarm, because it is necessary. At least we have to do everything we can to prevent violence. Today, there is a system of mandatory judicial review of the Public Prosecutor’s decision on a restraining order. The progress party sees that it can be time-saving. Often the people who have been banned from visiting meet, not yet, they accept it, and the courts get a lot of work on this. Nevertheless, it is important that this is maintained. It is also important to ensure the legal certainty of the subject of a visit ban. At the hearing, it was noted that the Joint Union of Police wanted an adequate space for action and to put in place effective measures to increase the safety of victims of violence. Therefore, it is important that society reacts as quickly as possible to protect the victim. If a visit ban has been imposed, and then after a legal review within three days, the Progress Party believes that it must be possible to introduce electronic labelling of the persons who have been banned. It is regrettable that the Government cannot accept that proposal today. There's one thing that we still have to deal with, and that's the economics of the introduction. We have had major debates in this Chamber on the resources and needs of the individual police districts and the police. This amendment of the law will have economic consequences. It says in the case papers that this is to be taken out of the already existing budget in the police districts. When we know that the police sector is currently under-budgeted, it is irresponsible to assign even more tasks to police budgets without any money. Now there's probably one budget for this government to present. Then I hope that extra budgets will be added to this. In any case, I can assure you that if there is a change of government, there will be extra resources for this. And then I'm worried about the introduction of this equipment, which needs to be put in place as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e966	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e969	Things where women live under serious threats from past partners and need protection are a major challenge for society. Too many women have experienced couple relationships where there has been physical and mental violence. The incident in Trondheim this week, where a woman who received a violent alarm after reporting her ex-husband threats, experienced being driven down by the ex-husband by a car, is directly shocking. Witnesses have told me that there is no doubt that the woman was driven down with an overlay. Fortunately, the coincidences would mean that a police patrol on the way to another mission could intervene there and then. The woman received the necessary help, and the man could be apprehended immediately. Over time, VG has demonstrated a shocking development with a large number of female rapists committed by boyfriends and husbands, and where prolonged harassment and violence have shaped the life situation of a number of these women. Several of them have also been equipped with a violent alarm, but this could not prevent the killing. The question then is what more society can do to prevent new killing victims from being added to this horrendous list. Reverse violence alarm, visitor control and refusal of contact are reaction forms behind an overall political environment. But often the problem is that women do not or do not dare take the decisive first step and report their partner or spouse to the police. Many fears of what will happen afterwards. Where are they going to take care of themselves? And how are they going to be financially? Many have been so busy holding the façade that even the nearest have not perceived the use of violence and have been able to intervene. From the crisis centres we hear that the fear of women is not entirely unfounded, because it is not necessarily that the auxiliaries and the municipality are always ready to contribute. And the women themselves are also not always aware of what rights they have, and where they can seek help. Crisis centres make a formidable effort, but cannot be expected to enter into the roles of the municipality and the other auxiliaries. A central question is how good the police are to act on such issues, and how quickly they can put in the necessary protective measures when women take the step of reporting to the police. The right has a lot of understanding that this type of case is demanding. We know that Norwegian police are building up important competences in the field of violence in close relations. Family violence coordinators in police districts play an important role in combating violence between relatives and should also contribute to the care and security of victims of violence. At the Committee hearing, the Crisis Centre Secretariat estimated that more than 1 000 women are at all times on the run from violent men and that 1 200-1,800 women have to live with a violent alarm. That's big numbers. It is not difficult to imagine the psychological burden this must be for the women concerned. One might wonder what quality of life is like for women who live in constant fear of violence – at worst the fear of losing their lives. The rapporteur has given a good account of the matter. The right is concerned that the police have to act quickly and find solutions that can provide women at risk of violence with the best and most effective protection possible, and as quickly as possible. At the same time, it is important to take measures to ensure that the victim becomes the victim who is affected and is given limited freedom of movement, in order to ensure the safety of the victim. It is not acceptable for the threatened person to bear the burden of the measures, such as: may be a blocked address or mobile violence alarm. There is reason to take collective self-criticism that so few measures to date have focused on limiting the scope and freedom of movement of the potential perpetrator of violence. Apart from the restraining order and the restraining order, it is the victim who has had to bear the consequences and has had to change his everyday life and his way of life quite dramatically. With the reverse alarm of violence, we get an instrument that will put the limits where they should be – in the case of the person who poses the threat. It is now in place that the main focus is on the victim’s situation. How can the victim's situation be remedied in a gentle way, so that it is possible to live an almost normal life for the woman and any children inside the picture? The development of new technologies that can contribute to safer systems and faster alerting when the situation requires is extremely important. Here, Norway must also be internationally briefed, so that our technological solutions are as safe as possible. The right is also concerned that vital and safety-creating measures for women in need of protection must not be limited by the economy of the individual police districts. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that proposal No. 2 is a joint proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e995	I take the word just too short to draw attention to the fact that I have not changed my vision when it comes to the so-called reverse alarm of violence. I understand the purpose formulated by the majority, but don't think it will work that way in practice. As far as I can see, this has been tried in Sweden without any action being taken, so I will reject the fact that this is about taking women's safety seriously. I think that's the purpose of a majority. But I think there are a lot of other things that count, for example. what the Left has brought up in the hall, and what the Government is now implementing, that is, putting down a commission to see why the killings we've had happened, to read signals in time, to catch things in time and to stop in time. That's one of the measures I really believe in. That's the way it's open here, that outside the restraining zone, which can either be your own home, a part of a municipality or a municipality, you won't be able to intervene – that's when you move in the rest of the country. Then you'll still be in the situation you're in. Moreover, electronics itself is an uncertainty. In addition, I add that we do not have the police resources we need. I'm not going to make a long discussion of this. I perceive the good intentions of the majority. I don't believe in the practical effect of the purpose, even though it's expressed in the way it's done. I think there are completely different measures you need to focus on. The consequence of this is that the Left will vote against all proposals, with the exception of Section 222 a new sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs, which are going to speed up and improve the efficiency of the procedures by banning visits. We expect a lot of the review that is now taking place of the approx. The 80 killings we've had. We also expect a lot from a series of other measures that are being reviewed, but at this point we do not share the optimism that lies in the majority's argument. This is expressed in the vote, as I have now presented it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1012	It is good to deal with this issue now, after we have dealt with changes in criminal law. The focus we have on violence in close relationships shows that the closest aggregate, but also the government, sees the fight against violence in close relationships through many types of action. We are totally dependent on moving the focus from criminal reaction to what is primarily prevention, and on being able to create security even when punishment is measured. Because we must not imagine that stricter criminal law and more effective criminal justice in the case of close relations necessarily contribute to the dampening of conflicts and the creation of security. Many women experience the opposite. That's why it's important for us, for a lot of reasons, that this is now being adopted here today. First of all, it's a good example that we have to have a lot of thoughts in our head at once, but it's also crucial to push some of the burden on someone who poses a threat and creates anxiety. The representative Aspaker was involved – and several others too – and I fully agree with that. I think it's absolutely vital to create security, especially for women, that you know that there's other than a sail that also fits when there's an acutely imminent situation. That is why I very much disagree with the representative Dørum when he points out that an argument against this is that it does not apply outside the nearby areas and the visiting zone. Of course, the best thing is that we create full security for women and those who had to be integrated into such a project. But the fact that security is at least provided in its neighbourhoods must be preferred to the option. I also disagree with setting this up immediately against the resource situation in the police. I could say a lot about it, but I believe that this kind of action can actually help to facilitate the resource situation – in the sense that it can be easier for those who are going to have control and should have control of so serious crime, that it can actually help mitigate crime. Then I have to say that what's the big challenge – and there I do very much share some of the scepticism of the representative Dørum – which we have to take seriously – and where I find reason to be open to Odelstinget, that's technological quality. That's why this takes time, because we don't feel safe about the technological quality. I just have to say right away that we're not going to fart at the technological quality of this project. I would rather go down here to Stortinget and say that it takes a little longer. In order to create an expectation of security that is lacking on the basis of unreachable technologies, the Government does not intend to take the chance. That's the background for it taking time, and that we're taking time to find suitable technology. This works well, but it's not a simple exercise. Then there are dilemmas regarding the extension of the system, and I have great respect for the impatience of the committee in this regard. We're going to do the missions that we're given by the majority in the issue of enlargement. At the same time, I think it is okay to try this out in front of a fenced circuit in the case of newly ploughed land – and then I am talking about the contact ban. This is also an international discussion — how far this type of coercive means can be used in the fight against violence in close relations. Finally, I would just like to say that I am the host of this year's Minister of Justice conference to be held in Tromsø. It is the European Justice Ministers who have been invited there, and the conference is in a few weeks. I have wanted a pan-European focus on this type of violence, and this will be one of the issues we are going to discuss. I have tried to base it on a recently published report, Breaking the Silence – united against domestic violence. 210 participants from 47 countries will meet in Tromsø to discuss violence in close relationships, and how we can best help victims find the way out of violence. Of course, some of the discussion will go on these types of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1042	The Council of State said that it would be wrong to talk about the economy in this case, but the fact is that the development and implementation of this equipment would cost approximately. Twenty-four million. kr first year of operation. As the Progress Party sees it, it is irresponsible to assign another task to the police within the existing budgetary framework when we know that there are operational means they are striving for. But my question to the Council of State is not going to go to economics, my question is going to go to equipment: When will this be in place, and when does the Minister of Justice expect this to work in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1049	I also have to answer with regard to resources, because the representative Horne is well-known that the Stortinget, among other things. I have granted extra money for the development of this. We are aware that when the police need money for special projects, it is possible to grant it. The government has even been accused by the police of earmarking too much of the extra funds coming. You have to make a choice in many ways if you want to take it within the operating framework you have. Our ambition is that the costs you have should be covered within the operating framework, but that it is nice to get additional appropriations. It shall determine future budgets. Now the representative also asks Horne about what I tried to explain in my post, which, with my competence, is impossible to answer. Our measure of the implementation of this scheme is whether the technology is good enough. After all, we're on the police's data and material service as just that to get this done, and we're going to get back to Stortinget as soon as possible when it's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1056	When using violent alarms, it is very important that this becomes a real security, and that you can trust that this system works. This means that the police must have the capacity to respond, and that also means that the police must have budgets to acquire the number of violent alarms that are actually needed. With regard to the DNA reform, it has been chosen that central funding has been provided here to avoid questioning the differences between police departments in relation to its use. Will the Council of State assess – or have he assessed – whether there should also have been a central funding for violence alarms?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1063	To a large extent, we believe it is right that the police officers manage the money seagoingly, and according to local circumstances it distributes it in the best possible way. I also believe that the good management of resources by police districts – not only through our government period, but through time they are actually one of the public authorities that has managed to keep order in their own house in terms of economics – showing that it is appropriate. But insofar as it goes especially on pilot projects and things, I think we have to be inclined to be able to find extra funding. But that's what we get back to only when this is phased in, and when the technology is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1068	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1073	I would say that I disagree a little with the representative Dørum in his approach to the action. It is clear that it will mean a burden, that will mean a responsibility for the potential violent person, but it is clear that when the gain on the other hand may be that we save a life, it must go ahead. I was totally paralysed when a woman three months ago said the following about the alarm she was carrying: If I have to press this alarm, you might as well send a hearse car, because then he is outside my window, and then the police don't have enough time to come to me and save me. It was very striking. That means that we have to find other solutions that make this work, and then we believe that what we are proposing and adopting today can help make the safety, the security, for the woman to grow. We're not saying that it will, but it can do that, and then we have to try everything we can to secure women's lives. This is a very serious problem. It's actually going to be 5 pst. of the adult population exposed to violence every year. This indicates that there are 180 000 people who experience violence or threats of violence every year in Norway. In fact, 50 000 people in Norway receive visible bruises or body injuries each year. In fact, between 8 000 and 16 000 women are subject to rape in Norway, and no more than 10 pst. of them appear. The vast majority of rapes are committed by a woman who knows. We also know that over the past nine years, 85 women have been killed by someone they have had or have a relationship with, present or past partners. Then we have to take this seriously. First of all, we men must take our share of responsibility. There are men who kill, there are men who rape, there are men who commit violence, and then we men must take that responsibility. We have to start talking about it, and we do. I see that more and more people are doing it, but there's a need for the strength of it to increase, and that we're talking between ourselves. We need to talk to our sons, we need to talk to our brothers, we need to talk to our comrades, we need to talk to our sports arenas, etc. It's a responsibility that lies alone with men, and we have to take that nicely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1082	With respect to reporting, it was this man who made the first action plan against violence in close relations and has continued to do so – there is no disagreement that it should continue – who carried out a restraining order for men in their own homes, etc. I have not driven any polemics against the majority. I believe in the intentions of the majority. Then I think it is a little bad to be stamped as if you were almost going to be a follower of a car like this if you are not in favour of this measure. It is good to start a review of all the killings that have taken place, but it was in the autumn of 2007 that I made a proposal that they should be reviewed. But I don't want to push polemics at it, because I've never been in doubt about the intentions of the councils and others. My reason – to put it that way – is related to some of the practical conditions of life in terms of both technology, technology to be monitored and controlled, two points to be read against each other, etc. I'd like to ask you to respect me for not believing in that. But you don't have to attribute any motives other than that you want to get the best possible solution. I have not used strong messages at any time – it is quite possible in this case – and I have made so many victims, e.g. for restraining arrangements, which are not working, etc., but I have not chosen to impose it as a polemic against the majority. I could use a lot of rhetoric around this. I have chosen to refrain from it, and I perceive that everyone agrees that the matter is serious. I perceive that the majority is very neat and conscious in their argument, but I needed to mark this. Of course, I agree with the representative Chaudhry that men have a special responsibility; that's why I as a man took it up. And I would like to say to the representative Chaudhry that when the Council of State of Storberget meets his fellow ministers of justice, he will, just like me, experience that one occasionally encounters a small glass wall. That's why I want him to be happy, because I know he's burning for it. But I've met too many male justice ministers in Europe who look at me with a look that indicates that it's in the spirit of resistance – on the back of that look.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1093	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 596]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1101	Odelstingen then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1108	30 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-13, by Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 14-20, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 21-23, by André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 24-27, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 28-30, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1–23 has been included in the voting on pages 69–73, and proposals Nos. 24–30 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1327	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1351	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1650	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 137, second paragraph, is deleted;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1697	The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the first paragraph of Section 261 of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1708	The Christian People's Party has announced that they will vote in favour of §§ 206a and the 284 new first paragraph of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e1719	It is then voted over the rest of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9309	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against Section 318 Exhibition Prohibition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9320	It goes over the rest of Roman I and Roman II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9329	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9338	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9345	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9515	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. First, the sixth paragraph of Section A II is added to the sixth paragraph of Section 222a. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9530	A II, Section 222 a new seventh and eighth paragraphs are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9539	So it goes over A the rest of II and I and III. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9552	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9562	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-28-lower.ana.ud2299e9574	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
