ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e35	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e44	Today, we are going to adopt a new rule in the municipal law to which there is a great deal of support – with one exception here in the hall, to which I am going to come back. With effect from 1 January 2010, with a transitional period of two years for the companies formed before the amendment, municipal and county limited liability companies shall have a gender-balanced composition of the boards of their companies. It implies that each sex should be represented by a certain number of members, approximately equal to 40 pst. And this will apply to all types of companies, regardless of activity, where municipalities or county municipalities own at least two thirds of the shares. As I said, this proposal for a new § 80a of the municipal law has great support. In particular, municipalities and county councils are in favour of the proposal. And then KS ends up with the new rules. The government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, Left and Right, ensure that this law is passed today. From the Right side, there's not exactly a lot of eagerness, finding and hugging, but they're now with. The party of progress, on the other hand, is definitely on the ground resting in the field of equality policy, the fact that the ‘chairman’ has now become the ‘leader’ and the words were great — yes, almost enormous — about the party’s commitment to women’s rights during the party’s national meeting last weekend. The country had almost finally got a real equality party. But back to reality. For while representatives of the French Parliament – including President Sarkozy’s party, UMP – have just been in Norway and have been impressed and inspired by our gender policy and quota legislation, the Progress Party here presents a list of how they systematically countered a number of measures for increasing equality in Norwegian society. That the Progress Party is on the right among right parties, there is no doubt – and that is so far no news. The Progress Party is the only party in the Committee which does not agree that municipalities must take special responsibility for promoting equality through a gender-balanced composition of the boards of their limited liability companies. In fact, the Progress Party ends up with a proposal to return the case to the Government for assessment against the provisions of the share law. But everything else they write tells us in plain language that they are totally opposed to using instruments, like legislation, to achieve gender balance. For example, the Progress Party says that it is: ‘not reasonably for the public to use large resources and an increasingly comprehensive and detailed law to protect the rights of healthy adults, intelligent, well-trained people’. So, with the logic of the Progress Party, we're just going to take control when it comes to sick adults, less intelligent and low-skilled people. I would like to hear a comment from the party concerned. In addition, this is not primarily about ensuring any right to control, but about the importance of both sexes having similar influence in our society, and about which principles we should base the governance of important societal functions. I am sure that increasing the gender balance of the companies covered by the new law will benefit the companies – and the municipalities and county councils as owners – and not least: it strengthens our democracy. Evolution shall occur naturally, says the Advance Party. Yes, we saw what it was like when natural development got to hold on alone. Policy is to want, and someone wants, and uses instruments. Other counter-works, as the Advance Party sails, with pride, emphasizes in the setting. According to the Progress Party, quotaing is very discriminatory – as if women are unable to obtain control on their own, they say. But again, it's not about individuals being given the right to a steering position or having to be able to obtain a steering position. It's about the fact that we need capable women in such regimes, and we like to be in leadership -- and we need more of them. It is also almost as if you feel the need to remember that the law does not only deal with women either. And no human being who gets a hold in the future – whether it's male or female – gets something more quotad than others with the law we're now adopting on gender balance. Sarkozy's party trap Marie-Jo Zimmermann tells the evening post yesterday that the French delegation has learned a lot in Norway, among others. that there is a need for courage and hard work in order to be the world's leading player in equality. Yes, we have come a long way in Norway, and today we are going a new, important step forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e77	And here's the post to the Hagebakken. That was almost the post I was going to make; he referred to all my views in his speech! The representative pointed out that this matter would strengthen democracy by quotas for women into the boards – and not by qualifications. Yes, there is Hagebakken and I disagree, and the Labour Party and the Advance Party strongly disagree. The municipal law is a special law for municipalities and county municipalities as their own legal entity and administrative body. In addition, the law covers the organisation of public service production in municipal and county enterprises. The separation of public service output into its own legal entity follows either from the law on intermunicipal companies or from the law on limited liability companies. Against this background, the proposal for the regulation of the composition of the board of limited liability companies owned by municipalities or county councils is based on municipal law, believes the Progress Party. If the law is to be amended, which has an effect on the composition of the governing body of limited liability companies, it should be brought into line with the provisions of the Share Act, rather than with the municipal law. I cannot understand why this law has not been assessed instead of the municipal law in this case. There are good intentions behind gender equality in governing bodies, but forced equality, as the government suggests, is not the way to go, says the Progress Party. Today's gender equality policy seems to be based on having a "fight" between two poles, and that's what the Progress Party believes it's not at all. It looks like you're stuck in a gender equality idea from the far back, from the 1970s and 1980s. It is not reasonable for the public to use resources and an increasingly comprehensive and detailed law to protect the rights of healthy adults, intelligent and well-trained people. I have full confidence in man's own ability to do this. I have faith that women and men know their needs and rights, and trust that they themselves can care for these. The People's Party is a strong supporter of equality, but believes that it should come as a result of natural developments and not as a result of bureaucratic detailed rules and decisions. The Progress Party has proposed the liberalisation of the equality law and believes that other bodies, such as the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, can enforce the key provisions of the law. Individuals who have been given a job or a position because of their sex and not because of their qualifications, me and the Progress Party are downgraded by society. Quotation is very discriminatory. It must be offensive for a woman to know that when she's going to have a place in a government, it's sex it depends on, and not competence and fitness. Women may not be able to get a steering position on their own, but they need to have the help of legal regulation. This is a downgrading of all women! The matter we now have to deal with is a step in the wrong direction. Rather, we should ensure that all businesses, both public and private, have a viable capacity for value creation – and let them do more paperwork to satisfy bureaucratic rules and the Hage Hill. The Progress Party is opposed to the legislative changes, and I am promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e100	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e103	Power, influence, money and resources are misdistributed, and that is what SV believes is wrong. That's why we think rules are needed to correct it. Formal equality is important, but not enough. It's been shown. To go a little to the last speaker, from the Advancement Party, who is quite alone – thank God – in this case: In the final part of the reasoning in his post, the representative of the Advancement Party says that one should be selected on the basis of qualifications and competence. Then I would like to ask: Does the Advancement Party believe that women today do not have that competence, as they are not in these regimes? It must be that women, generally speaking, are less competent and less suitable than men and that is why they are not elected. SV believes that this is far from the case. There is a woman here who has been quotad in politics – even because the Progress Party had no women in the local government, so a representative from the Swedish government was transferred into a sample to comply with some rules. And I discovered to my amazement that I was not the least less competent than the men who were already there. So I think part of the quota that's going on today, and you get positions, is kind of a historical quota, that men get positions on the basis of their gender. It doesn't seem to bother the Progress Party the very least that men become – to put it that way – systematically quotad, traditionally, into positions, and that they have power positions in society based on their gender. It is therefore implicit in the reasoning of the Progress Party that women do not have the qualifications to be in these positions, otherwise they would probably have had these positions today. Then the Progress Party refers to something they call ‘natural development’. Yes, history has shown that this does not go off. It's scientists who've been looking at this lately, too. After we've had some tools, it's going forward -- it's going a lot faster now than it's done before -- but now it's seagoing, for example. in municipal activities, equality at the top is poor. Only three out of ten local political leaders are women. The researchers, for example: Ingrid Guldvik and Janneke van der Ros at Lillehammer High School, believe that the problem is that what we call the gatekeeper bodies, i.e. those who sit and choose to the other bodies, do not have binding guidelines to ensure a reasonable distribution between the sexes. That's why it becomes the elite and the men who lead on, and choose each other. Once we've studied the process closely, it's clear to us that this is not going to go off, the researchers say. But the Progress Party clearly believes something else. The researchers believe that quotas are needed. It may be a little unpopular with someone, but if you're concerned that there's a fair distribution of power and influence, you actually have to use some tools. The Progress Party writes in its comments that there are considerable forces in Norway that want the policy of yesterday in the field of gender equality. Yeah, we can see that. We hear that the Progress Party, which is actually a significant political party in Norway, wants yesterday's policy. That is the policy we have had for thousands of years in Norway. For thousands of years, men have had positions, power and influence based on their gender. It seems that the Progress Party is right, and I think Norwegian women should notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e118	There is little doubt that regulated gender balance requirements are working. In five years, from 2003 to 2008, state-owned limited liability companies have increased from 7 p.m. to meet the gender balance requirement. by the companies and to 100 pst. Although the municipalities have been better than the state without legal regulation, there is no reason not to use the same effective instrument in the municipalities as well. This is only about the value of gender balanced governance and has very few economic or practical consequences. The left is not a party that is principled for quotaing, but we support instruments that meet important political objectives. The progressing party says in its comments that sex quotaing is old-fashioned and has an impact on women's degradation. Yes, society is in development. Ideally, the assessment of women's competences should not be necessary to legislate, but when it has over time developed such a gender-divided composition in central governments, councils and selections, the Left believes that it is a proper tool to regulate a minimum representation for each gender. The left believes that it is a strength for the municipal companies that one through this requirement is based on the entire population when looking for competent board members. We believe it is quite natural that municipalities also take a special responsibility for promoting equality, through a gender-balanced composition of the boards of their share companies. The left therefore supports the proposal that each sex should be represented by a certain number of members of the board, approximately equal to 40 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e129	I am pleased that a broad majority in the Committee supports the Government's proposal on changes in local authorities, thereby requiring the board of municipal limited liability companies to also have a gender-balanced composition. The bill will ensure that the shareholders who mainly manage public values in their board of directors benefit from the competence of women. I am proud to be able to show that Norway is on the front line, as we were also when the rules on gender representation in the board of public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies were introduced. At that time there were many critics. Today we can say that the legislation has worked, it has been a success. Many countries have seen Norway with interest. As far as I know, we are the only European country that introduces such absolute rules on gender representation in municipal companies that we do today. I think we're going to find out that the law will work positively in these companies, because there's going to be a broader competence. Then there are several representatives who have mentioned the issue of equality to come, as it is called, ‘as a result of natural development and not as a result of bureaucratic detailed rules and decisions’ – it is the Progress Party that has that vision. Let me first mention that over the last few years, municipal companies as an organization solution have had wind in the sails of our municipalities. We can equal it or not equal it can be the subject of our own discussions. However, as a result of these developments, more and more of the municipal activity is taking place outside the basic municipal organisation. It also implies that municipal companies have a major role to play in local policy. Today, almost 100 years after the women had the right to vote in local government, we have an average of 37,5 pst. women of municipal government, but only 23 pst. in tenure. In municipal limited liability companies, the women's share is on average 30 pst. in control. This means that if we are to follow the so-called natural development rate in the future, it may take more than 30-40 years before we have gender balance in municipally owned companies. I have to assume that the representatives from the Progress Party believe that it is natural to wait 30-40 years to achieve a balance that will thus ensure broader competence. I don't understand that on one side you can write that there is a strong supporter of equality, while on the other side you can't support a proposal like this. After all, it involves an instrument that has proved to be effective and successful in relation to public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies. Let me remind you that a successful system of allowances in the municipal companies can, if we are closed, of course result in a change in the mechanisms that today create imbalances in the gender representation of these governments. It may render allowances redundant in sight. And then I have to be allowed to pay attention to the fact that we do not propose in this round any sanctioning system to enforce the rules. I'm going to follow developments closely. Should it turn out that there are companies that do not comply with the rules, we will of course have to reconsider a possible penalty rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e147	I would like to say to the Council of State that the Progress Party believes that women are no less competent than men. I would also like to say to the Council of State that we do not believe that women have less qualifications than men – perhaps often on the contrary. I would remind the Council of State that the Progress Party is for equality, but we believe that this should have been assessed against the Share Act. There are a lot of women working in government around the country today doing a really good job. The progress party has a share of these -- we know they're doing a very good job. My final question is: Why was this not assessed against the Share Act instead of the municipal law? It didn't come into this state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e154	These reminders are nice with the Progress Party. My experience with the allowances systems that have been so far is that those who are to be appointed as directors, in fact, put in their own self-control, think more broadly when assessing who might be involved in a position. So I'm going to answer the question: this assessment of whether to place this in the Company Act or in the Municipality Act, is made by item 4.1.3 on page 24 of the Proposition itself. It is right as it is said here: this proposal could be a matter for us to put in the stock laws. We have found it right to place this person in the municipality as well. The important thing here is that the proposal itself comes into place. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e162	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e172	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e179	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has made a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal for a new Chapter 12A, including proposals for Section 80a, shall be returned to the Government for assessment against the provisions of the share law for any incorporation into the Share Act.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e261	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e272	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e285	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. Before the referendum, the President will be thanked for four interesting years – this is the last meeting I have here in Odelstinget. No one in the Presidency is to be re-elected, and some of you who are here are likely to take over and get such work in the next period. We have a majority government, and it may be particularly important to remember that the decisions are taken in the Storting, and the Government will carry out the decisions. So it's not the opposite that the government decides and the Storting follows it up! [[Applause from the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29-lower.ana.ud1379e299	There is no record. Thank you for your cooperation!
