ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e26	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e29	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on simplifications in reporting, forms and regulations for business and a proposal on behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Kari Storstrand and myself to prohibit the publication of tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e34	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e37	On behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Jon Hunter Gåsvatn and myself, I would like to propose an investigation related to the trial project with Naloxon nasal spray to combat overdose deaths.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e64	On Monday the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre and the Councils of State Tora Aasland and Lars Peder Breck will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main question, from the representative Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e73	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway is dependent on open markets, and thus protectionism is not in Norwegian interest. This is something the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also mentioned several times. A recent report to the World Bank reports an increasing level of protectionism in many countries — countries in the EU, the United States, China and Russia, to name a few. Many would think that this is the worst medicine to get out of the financial crisis. A new WTO agreement, on the other hand, could be good news and an incentive in these demanding times. Today's WTO agreement gives Member States room to significantly increase customs duties. A new agreement could limit this space for action and ensure a greater degree of open markets. Not least, a new agreement will be good for the export of Norwegian fish – fish facing trade barriers on many important markets. Now, for the first time in four years, there will be a ministerial meeting at the WTO in Geneva, at the end of this month. In order for a new agreement to be put in place, some countries will have to go a little further. How far is Norway willing to go? Are you willing to put aside an unsolvable, protectionist agricultural policy and contribute to a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e86	I share the representative's view that protectionism is not a way out of the crisis today. Norway joins in the repeated opinions that have come from many teams, that this is not the way to go. In Pittsburgh in September, the G20 countries set this out. This is Norway's position also in the WTO, in the OECD, in EFTA and in our cooperation with the EU. We can go through the statistics, but we don't have to do it here. Norway is dependent on exports and predictable markets and will be affected if this becomes a widely used instrument. It is true that there is a WTO ministerial meeting for the first time in four years. It may not have as its main focus the Doha process, i.e. a new global trade agreement. But we are going from the Norwegian side to use that opportunity to underline the need to conclude these negotiations. One of my first jobs as Minister of Foreign Affairs was to travel to Hong Kong in November 2005. Then the goal was to conclude the negotiations. We're not yet in the goal. It is still relevant to get that agreement in place, both because it will provide a global regulatory framework that will make all of these bilateral agreements that we are now concluding less important, and because it will strengthen developing countries' access to world markets, which is clearly necessary. Fish have been an important requirement for Norway in those negotiations, and it will still be. Let me also say that the WTO has been given a mandate to monitor whether countries are now taking protectionist action. It also follows the OECD, so it's important knowledge. We're going to help make a deal. We've gone far in our positions. I do not share the representative's description of Norwegian agricultural positions. We have a Norwegian position to maintain Norwegian agricultural production throughout the country. We have presented proposals on import protection, internal subsidies and export subsidies, which will make Norway take a significant part of the responsibility to bring about a new global agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e99	I would like to thank you for your answer. I want to put a follow-up question to the Minister of Agriculture and drill a little further into what we think is a main challenge, and that is the Norwegian defence interests related to agriculture. One thing is that you are willing to go under pressure in a situation of negotiation, but you can already go a long way. There is nothing to stop Norway from taking action. According to the Church’s Emergency Aid, Norway is a supporter of rich country’s dumping of agricultural products on markets in poor countries, and Norwegian subsidies policy has to be reformed, according to the Church’s Emergency Aid. Norway has more products with rates of between 300 and 500 pst. and some even higher. This makes Norway one of the most protectionist countries in the world in the field of agriculture. I will challenge the Council of State on the following: What action does the Council of State intend to take to get Norway out of this mess, thus giving a good signal and helping us to get a new deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e112	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to stress that we are very concerned about reducing protectionism as a principle in world trade. At the same time, we are also committed to taking care of Norwegian agriculture, which is what the representative asks about. In the negotiations so far, Norway has been one of the countries, along with the other G10 countries, which have taken the largest cuts in customs duties. Norway has been willing to reduce, or eliminate, export subsidies. Today we are not exporting products from Norway, except for the Järlsbergosten, which has a weak subsidy that we have said we should remove. In addition to this, Norwegian agricultural production does not contribute to market pressure in the world, because we do not export goods. On the other hand, we are committed to ensuring Norwegian agriculture throughout the country, and then we need import restrictions to ensure it, within the framework of a WTO agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e123	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e126	Then we agree that free trade is the way to go. Economic development is necessary not only for the development of well-being and prosperity but also for the establishment of democracy, human rights and stability in the countries concerned. The Heads of State of the African Union have clearly stated that trade for them is more important than assistance. According to the Center for Global Development, Norway’s trade policy is among the most evolutionary in the world. In a report in New Time on 23 October, Norway is ranked number 20 out of 22 of the world’s richest countries in terms of trade with the Third World. Only Switzerland and South Korea are behind us on that list. [[President clubs]] There is no reason to push ahead with EU membership or the EEA Agreement in this respect. [[The President clubs again.]] I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what trade policy the Government will implement to make it easier for third-world countries to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e137	It is positive that the representative Myhre attaches weight to the African Union. He selectively chooses from what he wants to listen to, but that's his right. I do not buy the image that Norway has the most protectionist and anti-territorial trade policy. In the WTO negotiations, Norway has been a driver of an agreement that gives these countries access to world markets, support to improve their export capacity, etc. But then Norway, in line with all other countries, must also take care of its fundamental interests. It is of Norwegian fundamental interest to be able to maintain agricultural activities throughout the country. We have, as the Minister of Agriculture says, taken on a huge cut in such an agreement – if it comes. It's going to be in quantity and quality the biggest cuts almost any country is going to take on. It is an important contribution to the future of these agreements. Then it is to continue to have a development policy that sets the poorest countries, and other groups, able to actually act between themselves, but also towards markets far, far north, like ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e146	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e150	It's a good quote from Robert Zoellick, who says that negotiating with the United States about free trade agreements is not something you have the right to, it's a privilege. I fully agree that trade is a privilege, and it is a privilege that Norway has to use to a much greater extent than today. Trade brings millions of people out of poverty. It's going to bring millions of people out of poverty, and it creates wealth. The question therefore arises: does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see that trade contributes to giving Norwegian consumers greater freedom of choice, cheaper goods, while also contributing to increased pressure, among others. in Norwegian agriculture and conversion into Norwegian agriculture? Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs, like the Right, see that there must be a price we are willing to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e159	It is a bit paradoxical to stand here and argue for the importance of trade for a country that has the world's most open economy in all sectors, except agriculture, where, through its geography, its history and its settlement, Norway has a different regime, but where reductions and reductions have also been made through the EEA Agreement. As I say, in the WTO negotiations Norway has undertaken to open up significant cuts. But what the representative here is doing, I believe, is a misassessment. He says that the opportunities of developing countries depend on imports into Norway. I agree that there is one dimension, but what is also important is the export from the large, rich countries, which pervert the world markets with large subsidies. Here Norway is not a sinner, and the small export we have with export subsidies, as the Minister of Agriculture says, we are therefore willing to liquidate. The major problems are the large, subsidised exports from Europe and the United States. So I believe that Norway is acting in a balanced way, starting with ours, and all countries are taking care of their national interests. We've done it, while we're willing to take significant cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e168	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e171	Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs is a little pessimistic about the possibilities for a new WTO agreement, I thought I would challenge the Government on what we as a nation can do to improve the import potential here to the country from the poorest countries, regardless of a WTO agreement. In the last period we worked long and intensely, and with a lot of resistance, just to get some imports of meat from Swaziland. So my question is whether the government has a plan for you, for example. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e178	The reality here is that the poorest countries do not have customs duties in Norway. In the WTO negotiations, Norway has been in favour of and implemented, in conjunction with other countries, including the United Kingdom. the Europeans that the commitments that countries have to make through a future WTO agreement will not apply to the poorest countries. They are protected as a group, as well as they will receive significant assistance to develop their own trading capacity. I believe that has been a correct Norwegian policy. Then, as the representative is probably also aware, these countries' exports to Norway are disappearing low. It says something about the challenge it is for a South African country to export all the way up to Norway, the bureaucratic complications it is dealing with. It underlines the importance of helping them with the capacity of that export. I think it is going to be Norway's line in the WTO negotiations, that is Aid For Trade, to support the possibility of trading and thus enable these countries to export, including to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e187	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e190	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture a follow-up question. When the Left sat in government last, the leader of the Central Party said that the last position that government had in relation to WTO negotiations was one of the most dramatic greetings to District Norway from the Left and Christian People's Party. That was the quote from the leader of the Center Party. We share the view of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important to reach an agreement. We also see that it is important to reach an agreement, and we look at the signals that the government is willing to reach out for such an agreement – also dramatically much longer than what we did when we were in the government position. So I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture now has a characteristic that fits the greetings of the Central Party in government and sends to District Norway, with the position that the Government has taken today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e199	I'm going to be the first to admit that the WTO negotiations are a complex landscape, even within the Central Party. I have also underlined that we in the government have been actively involved in the work to negotiate the best possible agreement for Norway. Because it is in the WTO that each country takes care of its own interests and must organise itself in groups. We do so both offensively in terms of fishing and defensively in relation to agriculture. With regard to relations with the developing countries, it is also the case that we have been the leading speaker for the interests of the developing countries, and when I was in India last year, India and Norway spoke the same language: we wanted to take care of our own sensitivitys, as Kamal Nath said in this context. I'm not choosing to use characteristics. I'm busy doing the job rather than running the kind of discussion that the representative Skei Grande here wants to start. But my responsibility is to do the best possible job to ensure agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e208	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e211	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Václav Klaus signed yesterday the Treaty of Lisbon on behalf of the Czech Republic, and thus the last formal obstacle to ratification seems to be over. This means that the Treaty may enter into force from 1 December or 1 January of next year. The UD's own note on the Treaty of Lisbon makes it clear that the EU's decision-making process will now go much faster, and that of course it will have an impact on Norway's influence as a foreign country. Already today, Norway has some difficulties in following decision-making closely enough and entering early enough into the process of caring for Norwegian interests. We can refer here to the Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive and the Company case as examples of areas where Norway arrived late. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What concrete measures will the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs now take to prevent Norway from falling behind in the decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e224	Yes, it is right that a long, thorny road now seems to be over, and the Treaty of Lisbon can enter into force quickly. While changes are not primarily likely to affect the substance of policy, the way policies are implemented, the way in which EU cooperation is managed, the decision-making process, the weighting of votes and parts of the population on how the EU is managed. There is no single concrete action from Norway, which is strongly involved, integrated with the EU, which responds to this overall picture. I think the answer is that we need to have continued increased vigilance from political Norway – and I mean then political Norway in a broad sense – because the challenge we are now facing is to work against the EU Member States. It is very traditional diplomacy, it is working towards the EU in Brussels, where we have the Council, the Commission and Parliament, as well as some other supervisory authorities and agencies, etc. established by the EU. We have to try to dispose of the cancers so that we get into the process early, as the representative says. We succeed in some contexts, and in other contexts, it's more demanding. Now, the processes are probably going to get faster, and it's necessary when they're now 27 countries, that at least it won't be the brake on. I believe, in particular, that the European Parliament is a challenge for us, and I would also like to recommend to the parties at Stortinget on the issues in which Norway gathers about common views – and that is a good deal of things in relation to Europe – that we clarify and work strategically against the groupings of the European Parliament. It is also the case that we need to be clear about prioritising issues where we can get in early and use the EEA Agreement’s opportunities for consultation, participation and expert participation. We have good evidence that where we succeed, we can actually have a lot of influence. But that is the vigilance, through our overall political attention here and with our delegation in Brussels and out in the Member States, which I think is the grip we can choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e234	It is true that the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament are now becoming more important as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon, and the Foreign Minister himself mentions that the European Parliament in particular is going to be a challenge. Norway has one national expert linked to the European Parliament in the important Internal Market Committee. I note that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not mention the one concrete measure actually mentioned in the budget proposal to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, namely that one national expert will no longer be financed by the Government. The question is how to address the need for close contact with the Minister for Foreign Affairs is quite right to do so when drawing out the only national expert you have, which is linked to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e241	If Norway's overall influence on the European Parliament rested on this one man in this committee, we would have been quite vulnerable. It could be a little different how we put on national experts, both in the European Commission, where we have dozens of them, and now in the European Parliament. We have an excellent nutrition council at the Brussels delegation that is also doing important work. So we're going to review how we prioritise those resources, but it's not one expert in the European Parliament who decides it. I think we need to have more systematic work. From the EU delegation, more resources are now being used to follow up what is happening in the European Parliament. We have to get in early, and we have to work more actively against those groups as governments and as big ones. We should also note that the Treaty of Lisbon increases the influence of national parliaments. How it's going to play in, is going to be important to observe. It also provides an opportunity, I think, for the Norwegian giant, in contact with other national parliaments, to intervene there. Otherwise, all Norwegian interests — industrial interests, regional interests, organisational interests — will have the European Parliament as an interesting venue to influence and influence. They too, we have to draw with us in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e250	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e253	I'm not going to say that Norway is still on the platform while the political European train continues to race. But I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has some thoughts when he sees our dear neighbour Sweden's significant influence over Europe's policy design, which has put Europe's climate policy in place and brought the Lisbon Agreement into place. It also reminds me that when Soria Moria I was established, there was a separate section on active European policies. In the successor, Soria Moria II, this active European policy is deflected with a few sentences. Is this an example and acknowledgment that Norwegian influence on political developments in Europe is increasingly being limited? The example given of the national expertise of the recalling European Parliament is a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e260	The answer to that is no. If the representative Kristiansen needs reading instructions in Soria Moria, I'm ready to give it after this session. Soria Moria I is still valid. That is why it is a clear line in an active European policy, with St.meld. No 23 from the previous period, its follow-up and the working methods there also during that period. It is clear and clear, and there is no doubt about it. Otherwise, I will be allowed from this pulpit to praise Sweden for the work our neighbours in the East have done this six months, with considerable intelligence, strategic ability and good use of resources, and now they are also getting caught up in the conclusion of the Treaty of Lisbon. It deserves Sweden after the work they've done, and that's how I think the demanding process is in the best hands. Do I think about it? Yes, I do. I have swallowed many times since 1994, and the representative knows where I stand in that case. But we are also in a Norwegian reality where we are going to make the best of what is Norway's close bond with Europe, and there is St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 continues to guide us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e269	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e272	The EEA Agreement was written more than 15 years ago. Then we see that in the European Union the Treaty basis is still being changed, now at the latest by the Lisbon Treaty. Now the Government has to thoroughly examine the EEA Agreement. It's going to take a few years, says the Secretary of State, and that's okay and understandable. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs' own office points to a number of shortcomings in the EEA Agreement today. The deficiencies in form are getting bigger and bigger. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take some action now and at least before the end of this two-year period, to put Norway in a better position at the institutional level in cooperation, addressing challenges related to our EEA cooperation, which is currently anchored to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e277	This review is set out in Soria Moria II and is also a response to the call for an overall increase to the Government in the last six months. We had a very good seminar in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday with representatives from several parties and political Norway on the EEA Agreement after 15 years. The answer to the question is yes. We are constantly working to see how the EEA Agreement can be developed and be the hub it is in relation to the EU. The representative of Solberg used a good term in the U.D. yesterday when she said that this is an agreement made for the 1980s' challenges. That's absolutely right, because it's the answer to the internal market. At the same time, the EEA Agreement has been riveted in the way we have developed responses to a wide range of other challenges: Schengen, police cooperation, etc. From this point of view, the EEA Agreement has always been our starting point for finding institutional solutions to Norway’s formal cooperation with the EU. We will continue to focus on this when we face challenges in our close cooperation. But the EEA agreement has proved to be a fabulous survival institution, and I think it's going to surprise many people by being so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e284	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e287	It would hardly surprise the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I fully endorse the tribute he has now given to the EEA Agreement. I think it will appear dynamic and robust, despite the fact that it was originally written for another time. My question is in the extension of what the Foreign Minister has now said about the increased importance of the European Parliament, about the importance of the influence of parliamentarians on Parliament and in the parliamentary context. Then is my challenge back to the Government: Is the Government prepared, in the light of this development, to involve the Storting stronger also in part of the controversial issues of Norway's relationship with Europe? We had major problems in getting a broad and early debate on the Services Directive here in the house, and there was great opposition from the Government to coming and giving an account of what could give the Storting such an opportunity. Now I see that the Government will sit on the Data Storage Directive one year before it comes to Stortinget. It does not contribute to the increased involvement of Parliament in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e294	If I'm going to interpret a question out of this, I want to say first of all, yes, we want to work closely with the Stortinget. I have asked in a letter to the Presidency to meet all the parliamentarians, the representatives of the various agencies outside, because we see the importance of it for official Norway out there. It may provide a basis for coordination. With regard to the Data Storage Directive and the process, the Government aims to have a consultation proposal ready in a short time, well on this side of Christmas. When it comes to consultation, it will probably take about three months to follow good practice. Then we're somewhere out in March. So we're going to have to take some time to sum it up and get to Stortinget with a proposition, whether it's in advance or after the summer holidays. I think that's quite a normal progress. Then we're going to have a lot of debate in Norwegian society about that directive. We welcome that debate because it is an important directive. It can be argued in many directions, and the Government is concerned to listen to that debate. Otherwise, in Soria Mora, we've drawn up about how we're going to approach that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e302	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e305	I want to follow up what the Højbråten said about contact with Parliament. The left has very close contacts with its sister parties in Parliament and very close exchanges with our political colleagues in the European Parliament. But this is resource-intensive work. This is also work that has not always been felt to be stressed heavily by those who believe that most of the influence is to be done through the Commission and through the old ways of thinking. So my question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned that we must now reverse the idea of influence, that perhaps the political parties in this House must have a greater role, because we can actually intervene directly against the party groups, and that the work must be concentrated and supported by the U.D. if we are to be able to care for the Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e312	I think I have given my support to the approach that the representative Skei Grande now mentions. I have said in several answers today that the European Parliament is becoming more important. At the same time, we have to respect some fundamental roles here. It is still the case that the Government is responsible for Norwegian foreign policy. It must be anchored in Stortinget. We believe that in those areas where Norway has a common approach, we are wise to have good coordination, so that we can use all our influence capabilities, including through the political parties. But the European Parliament is not divided into national seats. You sit there after party groupings. It puts leadership on how we work against that Parliament. But more information about what is happening in the European Parliament, raising our competences and sharing our efforts to raise our knowledge of how Parliament works are things that we are now looking at, and that we will come back to and involve, among other things. The size of — and also of — parts of public Norway, organisations that need to be able to inform themselves in this new and very important political landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e319	The size goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e322	I have a question for the Tora Aasland Council. For the Christian People's Party, the knowledge that the students get is incredibly important to us as a nation. I've gone through the red-green game programmes, and found some quotes: ‘In order for all to be given equal opportunities, the extension of the number of months of study support is necessary. Only in this way do we guarantee equal rights to higher education, regardless of economic and social status»; we can read at the Workers' Party. At SV we can read: ‘In the coming ageing period’ — i.e. this – ‘shall give priority to extending study support to 11 months’.» From the website of the Centre Party: ‘The centre lot will introduce 11 months of study benefit.’ This was actively followed up in the election campaign. In countless debates in which representatives from the government were present, I heard this promise repeated. Yes, even the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jonas Gahr Støre, said in a full hall at Chateau Neuf that this is something you are in favour of. But when the students stood outside the house and demonstrated, there were not so many representatives left. Then it was really only two of the youth parties of the Government that stood up and still wanted, together with the Christian People's Party, to work for this. I have been involved in some negotiations for several years in the policy. You sometimes lose things you're alone in, and you don't get any more of them. But how could the government negotiate eleven months of study funding in Soria Moria? There was one thing that everyone agreed on. It was one thing that everyone had said – and repeated – that they should give priority. It's a mystery to me. There were many students who were disappointed when Soria Moria II was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e351	I think it is an interesting description of the representative Dagrun Eriksen giving of the process in relation to increased student support. Of course, I am also quite clear that this is still an important matter for me and for my party – and I also believe too many other parties. What's important about the Soria Moria II process is just to admit that we didn't come up with that requirement in that process. I'll be honest with you and say it. But that doesn't mean we don't have to keep fighting for a better student support. I would like to stress that we have managed to put in place both new student housing, a price adjustment of the student support that is, and an important wording in Soria Moria II that we should have a better student support scheme for disabled students and students with children. What I'm also very clear about is that we're now launching a student life-cycle study. I have advertised this and made it clear to the students as well. It will give us an opportunity to get a good basis for how we will work on the matter of a better student support scheme. So I haven't put the matter aside in any way. I'm still working for it. I recognize that we lost it in the fight for good things in Soria Moria II. But we have a good start both in increasing student support for those students who may need it the most, and in creating a life-cycle study that gives us a good starting point for following up a discussion with the students' own organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e362	I do not fully understand who is the counterparty, when one has lost a case all agreed on – but I thank you for the answer. It's an essential thing that I think the Storting and the Government must take over. When Stortinget adopted the Quality Reform, we extended the semester to students. While many before were finished in May, there are many who are now not finished with the exam until far out in June. The additional study time has not been taken into account in the funding. My question is whether the Council of State sees you in a very difficult situation in June, when you get the last payment in May, while you don't get the first salary in the summer job until July. It's a challenge. Is it true that the students themselves will have to pay for the extended semester that Stortinget has imposed on them through the Quality Reform? Having economic concerns for the future in the middle of exam time may not be the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e369	I am very aware of that situation and have also had many discussions and meetings with the student organisations about it. My answer is that in the living conditions survey we are going to have for the students, we will be told how much work the students actually do in June, i.e. in one of the months under the law you do not receive study support for today. It will also be a basis. This is different from the different studies. In a few studies they also have support in June, but by most people they do not. That's the basis I want to get a little bit better grip on, so in a good way to move on to a matter that I know very well is important for the students, namely getting an even better student support scheme. What I also want to underline, is that the study aid will go over eleven months, must mean that it has to be overall larger than today. It's no use keeping the frame of the day with one month more. I don't want to go into that kind of solution, but I want to go in for an increased student support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e376	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e379	Another thing that also involved the parties in government, and that the students were also concerned about, which we may not see much again in the 2010 draft budget, is the basic appropriations. There is something that the student organisations have also included in all the consultations that have been held. In a wide-ranging interview in Stavanger Aftenblad, the Council of State says something about this. On a statement by those who pursue higher education, that they want ‘a more muscular Aasland’, the Council of State answers: ‘Muscles need training, and I’ll be on to continue the increase.’ The finance minister has said in the last three days that now we can't calculate anything more roughly in any sector. So my follow-up question is: what training course is the Minister looking forward to meeting the new Minister of Finance, who will keep the budgets in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e391	State Council Aasland – if she feels that training is a relevant follow-up issue in relation to the main issue, which should be the follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e395	I think we are well into the budget debate. There will be plenty of opportunity to go further on both basic appropriations and student support, but since the representative has now been allowed to ask the question, I will of course answer it. There is no decline, but in fact an increase in the budgets of universities and higher education institutions also in the proposal for the 2010 budget. The fact that there is no increase in the free resources is a priority compared to the fact that we want to focus on new places of study, and we also want to focus on getting funds to stimulate important cooperation and coordination actions between our universities and universities. So here the government has prioritised some of the things that are most burning and important right now, namely receiving more students. So we've given money for that. We have up to 5,000 new study places in the 2010 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e402	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e405	How SV manages to negotiate something that the Workers' Party and the Centre agree could be worth a research project. Whether the same applies to the possibility of living eleven months on what you can live for ten months, I am more in doubt about – whether we need to research and investigate it. This is also about study progress, which I have experienced that many governments have rightly been concerned about. The councils also experience a genuine commitment that we should use the brain power in Norway to solve the challenges we have today and in the future. And if we see this in context, I have to ask the question if the Council of State is simply concerned with the use of resources here. Isn't it a better resource use of just the brain power of Norwegian students that they spend their time in reading rooms and lecture halls than behind the 7-Eleven box, which many today have to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e412	Of course, it is a goal both for me and for the students and the universities and the colleges that students should conduct their studies in the shortest possible time in relation to normal time – not too short, but normal time. They're going to get good knowledge. We propose that this be done in a number of ways, both through grants to universities and universities in general, which I was in, by establishing new places of study, which should not go beyond the quality of teaching, and through the support schemes, which have actually been priced every year under our government. So the students get a higher sum per. years of study support now every year because it is price adjusted. Then, as I said, we're working on both a living conditions survey and on how we can improve student support. However, I would like to stress that Norway is very well placed at international level in terms of our way of providing study support. If we compare ourselves with other countries, Norwegian students come out very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e419	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e422	On July 31, this year, I took part in a debate at Rome’s Folkehögskole together with others. then Minister of Knowledge, Vegar Solhjell. It was for a very interested audience, the National Association of Students had a summer conference. It was a full house, and the Council of State, Solhjell, said at the time that he was a personal guarantor of eleven months of study support. This was fixed on film, and that clip went its victory tour in the election campaign and secured, of course, a lot of votes. But the personal guarantee obviously didn't go into Soria Moria II. What is absolutely incredible is that almost all the parties on the Stortinget have programmed 11 months of study support, but the three parties that promised the most failed. The question to the Council of State is who has now taken over the personal guarantee from the former Council of State Solhell, or whether all the country's 220 000 students only have to realize that this is another broken promise from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e429	Eleven months of study support is still an important matter, but, as I said, it is not within the existing framework of study support. This means that the study support framework needs to be increased. It's a topic in this case, and I would like to stress that that's what matters to me, is that we need to increase student support. So it can be done in many ways. The way that was most topical in the election campaign was to say that we're going to have another month of student support. But I again stress, as I've done to other representatives here, that I'm going to work to improve student support. I see that there are different ways to do it, and I still want to have a dialogue with the student organisations about this. I think we have a good start to get better student support through good formulations in Soria Moria II when it comes to starting with those who might need it the most: students who are disabled, and students with children. But the fact that there's nothing else doesn't mean we're not going to follow it up. For me, following up, along with the student organisations, will be an important matter for us to improve our students' financial lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e434	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e437	The Minister of Research can in and of course only stand still. What I would like to ask is the reaction to the submitted state budget for next year, which has been in agreement with all stakeholders. I want to quote a little bit: The University and Higher Education Council states that they see ‘no priority for research and higher education’ in the draft budget and considers that ‘the action space for universities and colleges will be further weakened’. [[...]] The Research Association asks the institutions to ‘assess whether it is appropriate to receive the new places of study’ when they are underfunded in the budget. And in the case of institutions, point out, for example, The University of Bergen has not seen ‘an equally tight budget since the cutting of rest in 2007’. University of Oslo writes that ‘When we experience a real reduction in the appropriations for education and research already in progress, this will threaten Norway’s status as a knowledge nation in the longer term’. NTNU is on its side clear and clear in its summary. It's short and cash. They say, 'This is not going to last!' The Council of State has pointed out, at the latest at a seminar yesterday when we both attended, that the draft budget is really good. So my question to the Council of State is really pretty simple: what is the Council of State looking like none of the research institutions see?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e462	I am aware that, as the Council of State for this area, I have a very demanding system to deal with. They sing out about what's important to them, and that's important to me too, of course. The same is true of the opposition, which I'm happy to have a good dialogue with about this. But what I see is that in all the first four years of government – and also now – we have a historically large increase in research budgets. From the year we're in now until 2010, the increase in the research budget is NOK 1.7 billion, and we're up to nearly NOK 23 billion in research. This is very good, and this is a growth that almost no other sector is bad, it should probably be the health sector. But in our context, this – also characterised by researchers themselves – is a historically high growth in the research budget – a real growth of about 5 pst. every year. I've been trying to get a debate on what the research is going to do – so, what are we going to do? And I also think Skei Grande agrees with me that this is an important part of that discussion. But she then asked why the criticism from the sector is so strong when, in my view, obviously, there should be no reason for it. I would like to mention this with the increase in the research budget, and there is also an increase in the university and higher education budget of half a billion dollars. That this is not going to be free money, I understand you can criticize. But I think – and not only believe, but I know – that it goes to very important purposes, such as creating new places of study, which are one of the most important things we can do to be prepared for a future where more people are going to enter higher education, and the means we are now granting, hopefully with the approval of the Stortingen, of the 2010 budget for universities and colleges will also go to important cooperation actions between universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e469	When you hear from the Council of State, it is clear that the distance in reality between the basic plane and the Council of State is so great that it is just before the Council of State asks the whole sector to eat cake instead, as another queen once said when she was lifted up in her tall tower. SV in opposition was a research party. They really fought for the research. When we dealt with the research report here in 2005, when I was last on the Education Committee, they had a goal that the research fund in 2008 would be 100 billion kroner. When they're in government, the goal is that it should be $77 billion in 2010. This is a party that has lost billions and years. What's really left? What I'm asking is, now that we have a finance minister who's going to tighten up the lifeline and make big changes, what's going to be left of SV's big ambitions in opposition, both numerically and annually, for the whole of this sector, when it gets even less to walk with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e477	I can't understand Trine Skei Grande's description of reality here. When I say that we have an increase in the research budget of NOK 1.7 billion from this year to the next, and that we are up to nearly NOK 23 billion in total for research, this is a formidable growth in the research budgets, and we are actually going in a very short time to reach the one percent of gross domestic product that was a target for SV in opposition. So here, too, there's something about the reality that's completely wrong with what's real. The reality is that we have an exceptionally good research budget, we have a very good budget, we have a climate research effort that is important to society, important to the world, and we have a research effort now through the research communication that we are going to make concrete, which allows us to be able to be at the forefront of research in many important areas. There's no sad situation. It is a fantastic good and important situation — a historically good situation in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e482	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e485	I want to follow up on Trine Skei Grande and ask a little about the future. The new Minister of Finance has announced in several media that we need to tighten the life-belt in terms of public expenditure. This is agreed by the Left, but we are very concerned about which public expenditure we are going to tighten up. Our position throughout the previous period was that focusing on knowledge, research and innovation is good for our society, and not least it has been important in times of decline. It is knowledge that we must live on in the future, and it is knowledge that will help to create new jobs. So my specific question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee that this will not become obsolete when it comes to reducing public expenditure in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e494	A government council can neither guarantee anything nor guarantee anything, but what I can put in the table is the government's 2010 draft government budget in terms of such an important area as research and knowledge. We therefore have a large increase in research budgets in several areas relating to several departments. We're continuing the growth, as we've said, we're going to do, in terms of research and therefore also important knowledge. I fully agree with the representative that there is knowledge – and more knowledge – we need, both to solve the major problems and conflicts in the world and also to get the welfare state on board in a good way. All of this research is now discussed in the Research Communication, which the Government follows up with funds — large funds — in the 2010 budget. It's in itself a good proof that the government is betting on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e499	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e502	It's a paradox that the Minister of Research is claiming a pedagogical problem, because that's what you're trying to communicate with. But that is how the whole budget has been said to be primarily responsible for the sector that is currently facing competition. The financial crisis is gradually dropping the ceiling in the vast majority of sectors, but in competitive industries, we are going to notice the aftermath of the financial crisis for a long, long time. Then we have a scheme called the User Control Innovation Arena. The day after the state budget was presented, director Hallén of the Research Council went out and said that until next year, there will be no new projects in the User-Managed Innovation Arena – despite the fact that one tax crown in the BIA scheme generates at least one – two dollars from private business to research. Is this also a pedagogical problem? Is there anything Arvid Hallén in the Research Council has not understood? And: What will the Council of State do to make Arvid Hallén understand that the User-led innovation arena also... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e509	The pedagogical problem that I pointed out in the previous round consists primarily of combining funds for research and funding to universities and colleges and looking at it as a whole. I hope that, with this representative's help, I can help clean it up, because when it comes to research, we have a great starting point. I understand you've reacted to what's going on at the User Control Innovation Arena. It is not an area under my ministry, my budget, it is the territory of the food and trade minist. But I will promise the representative that we will be well prepared in the budget debate to be able to look at that matter in relation to other important research and innovation issues. I am absolutely sure that the Storting, through the Committee, will also work on exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e516	Henning Warloe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e519	State Council Torah Aasland used a lot of the election campaign to focus on the importance of knowledge. That's good. But funny enough, she participated in a number of debates where she tried to explain and justify why the goal of using 3 pst. of GDP for research was no longer a good target. In this context, she has obviously suffered defeat in the Soria Moria negotiations – in Soria Moria II, the Government maintains its objective of 3 p.m. I wonder whether the Council of State is behind that goal, or whether she still believes – as in the election campaign – that this is an inappropriate and unnecessary goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e524	It is an inappropriate objective for the management of Norwegian research policy. But we'll always be measured at that percent. It is an internationally agreed way of measuring, as many other countries also do. What we disregarded in the research report – not in Soria Moria II, but in the research report – was to link the achievement of the goal to a particular year. But the goal is set. The achievement of the goal – as I also said – of one percent that is the responsibility of the state – is likely to be achieved in a very short time, because we have invested so much in research. The problem with such an objective is that when GDP fluctuates, the target fluctuates. If our gross domestic product goes down, we have a weaker goal for research to deal with. So it's one of the problems we're facing in times of crisis. But the 3 pst. measure, and that 2 pst. shall be industry-initiated, permanent, both in Soria Moria II and as a result of the discussions in the Government’s Research Communication. It's an important part of our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e531	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e535	I think that a temporal escalation plan would have been a good muscle for the council to have. But now leave it. Governments have reduced a sample to create a common understanding in the sector of how this is done. I've been thinking a lot about this sample and wondering what the purpose is. Now I have the council here and can be asked directly: is it for the sector to now accept the reality that the government has of how they really feel out there? Or is it for the Government to accept the reality that the sector actually describes, quite unambiguously? If I can also allow myself to say that, it sounds like it's the opposition that's moaning a little bit. I've been following this sector quite carefully, and that wasn't this strong demand from the past. That's when the rest cuts came and the red-green came, that we got the big challenge by the sector starting with it. What is the mandate of the sample?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e546	This working group's mandate will allow the representative to know more, and I would like to send it to him. But I can briefly say what the workgroup is going to do. I think it's actually an answer to a lot of what's made here, both as problems of being understood and perhaps problems of being heard, in both directions. When the government grants money and our academic institutions experience that they don't see anything about that money, we have a problem. What this working group will do is to try to find out what are the barriers, the problems, the challenges within the systems that are. Through a dialogue and an exciting way of working, you need to look for something that can be a common understanding. On the specific question from the representative about who it is that should affect others with their understanding, I would say that this is mutual. It is important that both parties, both authorities and the sector, respect each other's way of looking at it. [[The President clubs.]] If we can come to a better understanding basis, nothing is better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e553	It's important that we respect the way others view it, and it's also important that we respect the speaking time, which is limited to 1 minute. We move on to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e558	North Norway, and especially Finnmark, is now experiencing the biggest conflict since the Alta action nearly 30 years ago. Today we have lawless conditions for the peasants, where the peasants are invaded by pure ones who destroy what they have built. It has been decided that there will be more than 60,000 reindeer in Finnmark, we have more than 100,000 today. The national audit has also been critical that there is too much purity in relation to the grazing basis. We also see that all over North Norway there are major problems on the road network. Salting the roads has led to major traffic problems because clean comes down to get salt from the roads. We also see that yesterday the Minister of Agriculture said in Altapost that they want to set up a mediation committee. I think with all due respect that a mediation committee is not the right way to go. We believe that we must take action. This is not something that has come overnight, it has been for many years, and it has not been shown action by the minister. I demand that the Minister – it is time – show action to the farmers in North Norway. The cleaners say that you have to step in to reduce the problem. If the mediation is that they're going to fence in, my question to the minister is who's going to have to take the money with the fence. Then it's a paradox to me that there's never been more agriculture in the country than with the Central Party in power – where they're sitting today. We see what's happening in North Norway, and it's clear that agriculture will be abandoned when you don't get the chance to survive. My question to the minister is, how can we get a quick solution to this, instead of just talking?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e569	In some cases, there are some knowledge challenges both in the agricultural industry, in the sewage industry and also in the political environment. I would like to stress that this question points to that. What is the situation in Alta has a background in an old area of conservation that was established in the mid-1930s, where there was a restoration of cleanliness to ensure the rejuvenation of the forest, as it is called. It has been quite calm in the years that follow, but in recent years there have been major conflicts, probably related to legal issues, which have to do with equal rights and the different attitudes to the issues in Finnmark. What I have taken up in connection with the meeting that was in Alta, to which the representative here refers, has been to seek peace, create dialogue, and not least to create cooperation in Alta to find solutions to the challenges that exist in relation to that area of peace. The meeting we had yesterday resulted in the municipality setting up a cooperation committee where the municipality takes responsibility for getting the reindeer industry and agriculture together. It tells both parties that they agree. In addition, the Ministry establishes a mediation board to be chaired by the County Council of Finnmark, in which the rapporteur of Alta, the reindeer management and industry organisations, both for reindeer management and agriculture, are to be involved. It also says that they want to be on it. Unfortunately, this conflict has gone too far, I agree with the representative. But with the work we are doing now, we should seek to avoid new conflicts and to seek cooperation where reindeer and agriculture, both of which live from natural resources, are to have a more peaceful coexistence. I'm pretty sure we're going to get a lot further in the work done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e580	I'm not particularly impressed with the answer. It looks like only Finnmark matters to him. I'm recording that the rest of North Norway, like Nordland and Troms, doesn't matter. I would like to refer to a headline in Folkebladet, where Norway's second largest island, Senja, is completely stopped. There's 260 animals on the island, and they get to stop all nutritional developments. It could be deportation. The business life is tied to hands and feet because of 260 pure. And then we're in on that supply as well. Then my question to the minister is, When are you going to use the whole country? When are you going to take Nordland and Troms seriously, too, and not just traveling on a trip to Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e587	With respect, I would like to stress that it is important to distinguish lobster from canary. This conflict that we've seen has been very big in Alta municipality. We've captured that case. Then we also have to take with us that there are rights for reindeer operations in large parts of North Norway, including Middle Norway and down to Hedmark. Those rights exist and shall be exercised under laws and regulations. What I have been concerned about in the context of the conflicts that have arisen is that both reindeer farming, agriculture and all actors should deal with laws and regulations. They must respect laws and regulations. That's true in Alta, like anywhere else. That conflict on Senja that you mentioned, I haven't been aware of, and I don't know. And of course, in case it comes up, we're going to have to deal with it properly and properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e592	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e595	I would like to raise a follow-up question to the Minister for Agriculture. The main conflict is very often between different industries, but also between the reindeer industry and the district municipality. In many ways, district municipalities are affected in these conflict cases. I have also noticed the meeting that has been in Alta, and I have also noticed the article in Folkebladet that is going on cabin expansion and business development at Senja, where you feel you are not getting enough good work done. In addition, we have a clean-up agreement that has a framework of over 100 million. kr, which is the agreement between the reindustry and the State. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State take an initiative related to the KS, the reindeer industry and the agricultural industry, just to see how we can improve on conflict management in these matters, so that the district is not unduly affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e606	I have taken initiatives in the last few days to deal with conflicts in line with the law we have to deal with. Of course, as representatives of the Government, we address the challenges that come from different places. In the case of reindeer grazing and reindeer feeding, we must remember that this industry has rights according to age use. It's the Norwegian law that lays the framework for it. However, this industry must also deal with regulatory plans, planning and building laws and the necessary planning in the municipalities. Then it is important that the municipalities plan their areas correctly and properly. I perceive that here, too, the reindustry has quite a lot of objections and thus great opportunities to influence the processes. What has happened to Senja in terms of business development and cabin construction, I am sadly not aware of anything else. I will make the necessary contacts with the necessary bodies to ensure further work in this area in order to ensure conflict resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e615	The next follow-up question is from Svein Fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e619	Some of the reasons for the conflict are the market access problems of the reindeer industry, with slaughterhouse capacity and the following for large populations. Now the state council wants dialogue, and he sees that the situation is difficult. But it is also about concrete instruments. The National Audit Office has pointed out that the Ministry will not suspend competition in the use of marketing funds. Of course, it is not possible to achieve the optimum effect of the means used. My question to the Council of State is this: Why would the Council of State rather criticise the Riksaudition than look at optimal solutions for the use of marketing products, including outsourcing of competition, as the Riksaudition points out?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e628	First of all, of course, we're going to look at the comments that have come from the Riksaudition and the appropriate follow-up of it. In the case of this particular case, to which we have received comments, we have an information office for meat, which today makes this marketing on behalf of all other meat production in the country. From the department and from the industry it was a desire to use the Information Office for meat for a period when it was very difficult to dispose of reindeer meat. It was one and a half to two years ago. A campaign was launched, and this campaign was very successful. Increased demand, and today there is a high demand for reindeer meat and small market problems. In fact, there are challenges to slaughterhouses, because we want to increase the output. That is why we have opened up the use of capacity in Sweden on the slaughterhouse side to meet this need. We're going to tackle those challenges, and the industry is working closely with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e637	The last follow-up question will be asked by Rigmor Andersen Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e640	Cleaning industry is about tradition, and it's about Sami identity. We know that there have been major changes in recent years. This applies in particular to land use interventions, pasture loss, loss due to predators and climate change. In particular, the sewage industry has challenges in Finland related to production variations, low slaughter weights, very high reported losses due to predators and low productivity. The grazing basis of the Finnmark range has been degraded by emaciated animals as a result. This is worrying, especially from an animal health point of view, but also from an environmental and economic point of view. The opposition has repeatedly suggested that we want a roll-out message on the reindeer industry in order to provide a thorough explanation of these important issues. I understand from the answers given, that the Council of State is not entirely satisfied with the situation in the reindeer industry. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: will he consider submitting a big message on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e649	I think it's more important to act than to write political big messages in this situation. We have a situation, which is described by the representative, where we have challenges in reindeer management, in Finnland in particular, and especially with high numbers. We are working very actively to get a sustainable reindeer operation based on the use of reindeer management legislation, and based on the use of the reindeer management agreement, which has economic instruments, in order to ensure a better balance between food availability and the number of animals. The Purity Act is now fully operational, and rules of use are now being put forward for the various grazing areas, which will involve targeted plans to reduce the purity where it is too high. In other areas it is in balance, so it has to be continued. I am busy working further within the framework of the law we have, and the rules we have today, rather than presenting a new big message now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e658	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e664	There will be a number of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President shall refer to the list distributed at the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from Kent Gudmundsen's representative to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed. Questions 19, 20 and 21, from the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, André Oktay Dahl and Anders B. Werp to the Minister of Justice, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Tina Bru to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed. Question 23, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Justice, has been withdrawn. Question 24, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 26, from the representative Trine Skei Grande to the minister at the Prime Minister's office, is postponed to the next Question Time and will then be answered by the Prime Minister. Question 30, from the representative of Solvency Horne to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e687	We then go to the first question to be answered, from the representative of Torgeir Tjældal to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e693	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State on a new job. ‘For years the Ofoot Firen IKS has used vans with installed seats for smoke diving equipment in their emergency cars. The seats are not in use during the call-out, but are there for the attachment upon arrival at the point of damage. A new regulation now makes it impossible for the Ministry of Finance to acquire cars for smoke divers at favourable prices. The new rules require cars to be registered as a passenger car, which makes cars over NOK 100 000 more expensive for purchases. Will the Council of State amend this Regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e707	Thank you for your congratulations – it'll come along well, I guess. In general, the Ministry of Finance has not introduced new rules in the case of smoke diving cars for fire services. As a general rule, in addition to the first row, seats shall not be allowed to be fitted in vans with reduced charges. If this is done, the vehicle will be regarded as a vehicle for the carriage of passengers, and thus a passenger car charge will be paid. Specially equipped fire service vehicles are exempt from charge, following the decision of the Storting on a one-off charge for motor vehicles. However, the exemption applies to vehicles fitted with special equipment of any size, such as water tanks, pressure chambers, etc. Smoke diving cars, as described here, fall outside this exemption. It is the State Road Service which first classifies vehicles in a chargeable manner. However, the decision may be appealed to the Directorate of Customs and Fees. In some cases, the Directorate may assess whether the types of vehicle in question may nevertheless retain the tax classification, following a careful assessment. In that case, a derogation would mean that the vehicle will continue to be considered as a van in a fiscal sense. I would, however, like to see whether it will be possible to include smoke diving cars in the above-mentioned regulation for the fire service special vehicle, and – in case of – what kind of requirements one then has to meet for the equipment and equipment of smoke diving cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e720	I thank you for the answer and hope that there can be a solution there. What I want to ask the Council of State is that in the case of emergency vehicles in general – police cars, fire trucks and ambulances, that is. everything with blue light – does not charge, in line with today’s Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e727	I can promise the representative we'll look at this. As I said in my first answer, there is a certain hope here that you can find out about a system in the case of – in the first instance – smoke diving cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e732	Then we go on – not to question 3, but to question 1. Unfortunately, the President overlooked question 1, from Kent Gudmundsen's representative to the Minister of Defence. The question will be answered by the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e738	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘Change Eiendom has now put Olavsværder marine base for sale. This happens despite, among other things, The centre party in the election campaign announced a rematch in the government about closure. Can the Council confirm or cancel whether the sale process in Shifte Eiendom will proceed?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e747	I guess the order of the questions is secondary, only one gets a proper answer. I'll try to give it to you. I can answer Mr Gudmundsen's question, confirming that the sales process is under way, in accordance with the decision taken by Mr Stortinget, to close down the Olavs protection. This will be done in accordance with normal procedures for the sale of State property, the so-called disposal file. Defence construction will implement property taxing during 2010. The execution of the sale is expected to take two to four years. Before the property is offered for sale, among other things, it must: NATO deletes it from its inventory registers. This may take up to two years, but a request has already been sent to NATO for such deletion. Some uncertainties relate to regulatory issues, environmental remediation and market interest in the property. Therefore, it is difficult to be more precise in the indication of the date of sale itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e758	Soria Moria II reads as follows: ‘The presence of defence in the north shall be increased through all three areas of defence, as part of the Northern Region Strategy. This is the first priority of the defence and shall be the design of the structure. In addition to the fact that the Coast Guard will sail more north, the presence of the marine in the north must also be increased as a preventive measure and clarification of Norway’s area of interest.’» By completing the sale of Olavsvermung base, the aid point in the north will be lost and the aid point will be lost for increased operational activity. As a result, the Government will have difficulties in complying with the policy of Soria Moria II. What does the Minister of Finance have to say about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e768	The decision to close the Olavs protection was taken in the spring of 2008, in connection with the long-term defence plan. At that time, there was no permanent operational activity related to Olavsværm. I assume – I was not involved in that discussion – that before one made this decision, one had carefully assessed how one should set up the Defence Forces, among others. in North Norway. What is well the ratio — in so far as both north and south — is that one has had a certain concentration in terms of strengths than is the case today. In my view, this also reflects the view that the northern regions are still an important part of the defence business. But, as I said, the Stortinge decision in this case in 2008 is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e773	An underwater boat takes five to seven days from the northern areas to Haakonsvern base outside Bergen. Return journey means 10 to 14 days of travel to and from the northern regions. The Government Declaration states that there should be an increase in operational activity. If the Government has any intention of fulfilling its political platform, it will have to maintain the Olavs protection base, if you think you need to have an increased operational activity. Does the Minister of Finance see this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e778	I'll be careful to go too far into the defence minister's field, but just refer to the decision the Stortinge made in 2008, to put down the Olavs protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e787	Now this question was asked to one finance minister and answered by another, so I could really imagine asking if it's okay to be back again, since we're from the same state. But we can take the question to be asked. It is for the Minister of Finance: ‘The ratio of equivalency to market values for dwellings varies widely across the country. The results may be both unfair and illogical. The government proposes in the State budget a major and fundamental transformation of this system, and the papers that replace an injustice with a new one are already many. Does not the Council of State see that this is such a major and fundamental reform that it should receive a completely different treatment than to come as a surprise in a state budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e796	The question of what it's like to come back again, we get to take the Christmas table to the Hedemark bench. So to the answer to the question, the need for new valuation rules for housing has been there for many years, and it has been working on new proposals for changing valuation in many ways. The government's 2010 government proposal is partly based on experience with previous valuation proposals. There are, among other things: put in place the weaknesses of very detailed and administratively demanding valuation systems. At the same time, the Government's proposal involves less a change in principle from the current rules than previous proposals. The law provides that all assets are to be valued on the basis of turnover value, and taxpayers may require that any high equivalency of dwelling or leisure property be reduced to 30 pst. the market value. For new dwellings that today would like to be valued at 30 pst. by the owner who has paid for the building and land, the proposal will mean minor changes in the valuation. The main difference between the current and the new system will be that one will get more consistent and fair equation values below the 30 pst ceiling. the market value. In the context of the 2010 tax proposal, the Government presents a thorough analysis of the impact of a fairer valuation of dwellings, combined with an increase in the asset tax base. A comprehensive documentation of the weaknesses is provided in the applicable legislation. The bias in the current equation value is also well documented in various publications, including: of the Central Statistical Office, in recent years. That proposition, on legislative changes, sets out the practical solutions relating to new valuation rules. These have emerged in close cooperation with the Directorate-General for Taxation, and it is clear from the budgetary documents that the proposal is practicable as it stands. Against this background, the Government, like in many other budgetary matters, has found it both appropriate and appropriate to present this matter in the 2010 State Budget without a prior consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e815	I thank you for your answer. The question of whether it becomes more fair I think will be much discussed. As far as I know, last time the Minister of Finance was the Minister of Finance, such a review was put in the drawer, precisely because it was almost impossible to create justice. I rather think it reminds me of a little bit of a pinching operation, where you isolate the property tax to apply much less, and we all agree on that. The right-hand side appreciates raising the bottom subtraction. Our goal is to get rid of the wealth tax completely. But you isolate the effect of the taxes on wealth to a few, and then you put the road quite open so that you start to turn on the constraints that the Minister of Finance was in, and then you can start to increase the housing values without making any impact on so many people. Now the Minister of Finance has a very great need for savings. Does he then see that this gives an opportunity to turn up the values again? You have a story behind you, where the values are raised by 65 pst. during the previous grossing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e820	The proposal for 2010 is now available in Stortinget. We'll get back to future tax proposals as time passes. It is true that we dealt with this matter a few years ago. A 1996 tax return was presented, which was dealt with in the Stortinget, where the majority of the Stortingen at the time outlined a method of taxing called the Lundteigen model in the population mouth. This is a matter that has a long political history, and we believe that we are on good ground when we now present this proposal in the budget for 2010. There has been a long discussion and much prior work in terms of taxiing. I think it might also make sense to look at what is now happening in some municipalities where you are now introducing property taxes, and where municipalities have done extensive taxing work. Experience with the charging system may need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e831	We will probably come back to many discussions about property taxes on housing. What worries me is that the property tax goes very hard on Norwegian ownership of Norwegian jobs in Norwegian industry and Norwegian value-creating companies. The second effect of the change in taxes on wealth is to isolate the wealth tax to a lesser extent, so that you can easily turn on the screws for those that it really does turn on. We both know developments in South Hedmark quite well. There we lack local ownership and a lot of the county is branched – it's owned from outside – and now in times of crisis, a lot of jobs are laid down. Kongswinger is a good example of how evil this policy is. Does the Minister of Finance see major challenges in the fact that today’s wealth tax discriminates against Norwegian ownership and employment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e838	I think it is difficult here and now to agree with Mr Gundersen's representative on the taxes on wealth. What I think is right to stress is that if you look at the taxation of capital, if you look at the taxation of Norwegian business, I would argue that Norway has a tax system that is competitively consistent with the rest of the world around us. We'd better get back to this after a while, but I think that the food tax in Norway – as I said – can withstand comparison with any tax in the surrounding countries with which we compete. But these are questions that we get plenty of time to discuss in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e846	First let me also congratulate you on the comeback as Minister. ‘There has long been a high level of publicity around the equation in Norway. In 2007, the bulk of the population provided further increased access to the so-called tax lists. In the light of technological developments, there is reason to ask whether data protection is currently adequately protected and whether current practices could lead to an increased risk of criminal abuse. Will the Council of State initiate a broad review of current practice so that any changes may take effect before the 2009 equation is ready?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e855	First, thank you to the representative Syversen. With regard to the publication of tax lists, there is a long tradition in Norway. The background to the scheme is that secrecy can provide the basis for speculation on the general equation work and on the equivalency of individuals or groups of taxpayers. Furthermore, the publication also represents some form of community control with the Equation Authority. The difference between fair values and values to be used in the equation may also promote debate on tax rules. The rules of the Equation Act on the publication of the tax lists were last amended in June 2007. The decision was made, among other things, by the stork. that full tax lists can be supplied to the press in electronic form. Information on income and tax conditions is a key premise of the societal debate, and access to this information by the press is important to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal issues. Publication of the tax lists contributes to greater transparency in society, but I will keep up with the use of this practice to see if there are adverse consequences of the way in which the tax lists are published. The Minister of Justice has also announced that he will ask the police to assess whether there is a link between the publication of tax lists and crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e868	Thanks for the answer. I can largely subscribe to the reason why there's transparency around the tax lists, to a certain point. I also understand that the Government understands that the developments we have seen recently can provide the basis for a review in different areas without closing the whole issue of publication of the tax lists. Among other things, I sit on a clip from the Address Paper, which tells us that an elder has been committed with a background in, according to the police, that those who were responsible for the burglary had checked the tax records. I take it as an expression that even the Government does not have a firm view of this fully, but is willing to adjust the practice if you now get the empirical evidence that provides the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e879	That's right, as the representative of the Seven says here, that we want to keep up with it. As I also mentioned in my answer, I will look at this together with the Minister of Justice, and see if it is necessary to propose or make changes to prevent crime and other things from happening in relation to the publication of the tax figures. I can also promise that if we come to that conclusion, we will try to arrange it so that any changes will come in good time before the tax lists for the income year 2009 are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e889	Let me also join those who congratulate the Council of State on being back in position. In the time he has been gone, he has also had promising statements on transport policy, so we look forward to that! But now we're going out and out, and I have the following questions: ‘Transit passengers coming from abroad and going on domestication are subject to unnecessary and time-consuming checks at the OSL Gardermoen and other major airports in Norway. In our neighbouring countries, flexible solutions have been found to this. In Norway, similar initiatives have stopped altogether, despite the positive will of airlines, Avinor and OSL Gardermoen. Will the Council of State take the initiative to resolve this matter, so that the many hundreds of thousands of travelers can get a simpler journey?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e900	Thank you very much also to Mr Halleraker. I am happy to come back to many other discussions in the hall here at the end of the day. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Ministry of Finance to assess whether customs rules can be changed so that a so-called One Stop Security can be introduced on Gardermoen. This is a safety regime whereby passengers arriving at the Gardermoen with aeroplanes from abroad and continuing on domestic flights shall only be checked once for the entire journey. This will then happen at the aerodrome where the journey begins abroad. Checked baggage will then be carried directly from the foreign aircraft to the domestic aeroplane and passengers will only move within a so-called secured zone. A system of One Stop Security may, on the one hand, involve simpler check-in procedures and shorter transit times for transit passengers. Then one has to look at it against the consequences that this may have for customs handling of baggage, if it is possible to achieve satisfactory customs control with such a system. Both baggage management and the transit passengers' movement route on the Gardermoen will be challenging here. In the Ministry of Finance, we are now really going into this matter. The matter is highly prioritised, but it is too early to say something concrete about how the assessment is based. The Ministry of Finance will also keep in touch with the Ministry of Transport on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e907	I thank you for the answer, which I see as partly positive and that the matter is still in the process. We have registered that the OSL Gardermoen and Avinor have presented solutions that they believe are acceptable, and that they need a government approval on it. It is therefore on the table of this Council of States. It is true that the Minister for Transport at that time was already in the election campaign and said that she was prepared to implement and accept these solutions. Then it will be the authority approval it stands on. Is it true that there are other issues in Norway than what we see in Sweden that have found good solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e918	Well, I could say so that I'll do what I can to see if it's possible to find a good system, and then it makes sense to gain experience from abroad. And then we get to say it this way: "There's hope in hanging strings."
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e923	I thank you for the answer, and believe this can solve itself. I see that it is positive from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e928	We move on to question 6 from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Food and Trade. But I don't see any Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade in the Chamber. I expect him to be aware that he is no longer Minister of Culture! Then we get to go to the next question. However, I do not see any Minister of Transport here, who was formerly Minister of Local Affairs. We then have to take a break until a councillor had to be happy to be in the hall. The President must say after 28 years of seagoing service here that this is a rather unusual type of break. – We have now been informed that none of the three state councils that will answer the next questions in the Questionnaire are in the house. Therefore, the Storting takes a break, and it will be called when the question mark is re-opened. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11:41. --- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 11:45. President: Per-Cristian Foss
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e943	The size will then continue the treatment of the query retrieval. The President will inculcate in the Councils of State that were not present the importance of showing respect for the Storting by being present in the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e949	I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Many construction companies now have to cancel their employees, possibly going to lay-offs. This particularly affects districts where unemployment is already relatively high, such as in parts of Hedmark. What will the Council of State contribute to the re-filling of order books to a more common level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e958	Let me first regret that I was not present when the question was to be asked. It has not happened before, and it should – hopefully – not happen again. So to the question. The construction industry is among the first to experience a demand failure when economic downturns occur. In addition to parts of the competitive industry, the construction industry is among those who have noticed the effects of the recession. Unemployment in the construction industry is now significantly higher than in the economy. Enterprises in the industry report a decrease in order intake and a decrease in order stock, but also that the decline in order reserves is reaching a surface. The industry expects a significant decrease in activity during the next year. Although the situation is still difficult, there are some points of light. Money and credit market conditions have now improved significantly. There are also clear indications that economic activity is on the way up again after a very weak trend towards the end of 2008 and into 2009. GDP growth in mainland Norway is estimated to be weak in 2010, but unemployment is expected to increase slightly. The government has therefore found it appropriate to add to a budget for 2010 which is weakly expansive. Together with significant demand impulses from monetary policy, economic policy will help to mitigate the effects of the financial turmoil on, among other things, the construction industry. We have said, and we insist that we are prepared to implement the measures necessary to combat the negative effects of the international recession. The government will do what it can to prevent unemployment from falling at a high level. So far, the backlog in the world economy has turned out clearly less in Norway than in most other countries. Unemployment is still at a moderate level, and the decline in production has been clearly more limited in Norway than in our trading partners. An important reason why the financial crisis has not resulted in higher unemployment is the Government’s action against the financial turmoil last autumn and in spring. The government has provided and has received broad support to implement comprehensive measures to remedy the business situation. We believe that the budget that we have submitted for 2010 will be a continuation of that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e973	I thank the Council of State for briefing me on a few measures, but I do not know if he has any concrete measures – for example, on the Council of State. can promise to simplify laws and regulations, to look at tax policy more generally, to give priority to more rapid procedures in municipalities and counties, to look at the use of temporary employment, to look at land plans or other plans and to encourage construction, restoration and demolition, or to see whether the State can carry out some measures. These are the things I want answers to – if the Council of State has any concrete, rapid action? It says in the Glamdalen on 21 October that Fjeld cancels 25 employees – that is, there is one company. Another says, "Dead in the construction industry". Such things happen both in Hedmark and in the rest of the country. Then we have to have some quick steps, and they can be simple. There are many people who have received permissive notices, and there is a part that has been cancelled. This creates a major disturbance in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e980	There is a lack of demand for the services and products provided by the construction industry, which is the main cause of the crisis, not rules on temporary employment or tax rules. Thus, what the State can do is contribute to keeping demand so high that unemployment, the number of lay-offs and redundancies are minimised. When the 2009 government budget was presented last autumn, it was criticised by the right to be too expansive. It turned out that there was too little expansion when the financial crisis came to an end, and we got the crisis package in January, which contributed with very large stimulus to the economy. One of the most stimulated sectors was the construction sector, both through increased appropriations for maintenance and rehabilitation of state buildings, such as hospitals, universities, higher education buildings, cultural buildings, etc., by a strong strengthening of the framework of municipalities to carry out such rapid maintenance, and by stimulating the economy as a whole, which also means that individuals continue to demand such services. In addition, the low interest rate has led to... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e989	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that the crisis package that came helped a lot. It helped something in the construction industry, but there was a lot to do, and it was of course also sought after. In the construction industry, there was not much, but something was. I see that the Council of State is in dialogue with the shipping industry. It's another industry that has problems now, and I hope, of course, that we get a solution there. But my specific question is about the construction industry, and there are many, many companies, both large and small, that are now struggling with order servers. They're few, there's little order in general, and there's little to do. In addition, you go towards a winter, and then it's usually less to do than in the summer. So there's a real crisis in this industry. I really hope that the Council of State will take this into account. It can be solved with some simple grip, which I, among other things, bordered up in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e998	No job is more important to this government than to make sure that we reach the goal of working for everyone. Having an activity in the construction sector is an important factor in doing so. That's why we have very strong state incentives. The criticism from the opposition, even after the 2010 budget was presented, has not been that the state spends too little money. The concerns have been raised as to whether we spend too much money, among other things. because excessive government use can also lead to a higher dollar rate, a higher level of interest rates, and thus to a more difficult situation for other parts of industry. Finding that balance is a very difficult art. But we think we have found that balance in the budget presented for 2010. For 2010 too, there is a large amount of money for transport investments, for the local economy, which spends money on the school and elderly care sector, for the upgrading of buildings, etc. I think that this will also lead to the construction sector being commissioned, performing sensible work, and providing employment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1006	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State on new tasks. So to the question: ‘The Government has been severely criticised by the National Audit Office for cleaning up train running settings and delays, despite the fact that the National Audit Office has taken this up on a number of occasions. Former Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete was a little responsive to criticism, and blamed for the train chaos on former governments. Does the National Audit Board take seriously the criticism of the Riksrevision, and what action will the Council of State take to clean up the chaos of the East?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1017	Let me also – before I answer the question – regret that I was not here in time either. I understand that our new finance minister answers the questions he gets so clearly that follow-up questions are unnecessary. Then to the answer: I can assure the representative that I am particularly busy making rail transport more reliable. Increasing the quality of products delivered to users of passenger and freight trains in Norway has been and will be a major task for the rail sector. If we are to get more passengers to take the train instead of the car and get more goods from road to road, one must be able to trust that the train is going and coming when it is going to. This is not least the case in the densely operated Oslo area, where deviations in train traffic are easily propagated to large parts of the network. It is true that there has been too poor punctuality and regularity in train traffic in recent years, as the Riksrevision also points out. Of course, as the Council responsible, I take this criticism seriously. Rail network failures have been the main cause of problems. That explains why the Government found it necessary to start up the Oslo project with additional maintenance permissions to renew the railway network around Oslo. In 2008 and 2009, there are a total of about 320 million people. kr to this project. Work on this project is continuing, and in the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019 it is planned to spend approximately SEK 2.1 billion on extensive renewal work on the inner section of Lysaker–Etterstad, including Oslo S and Oslotunnel, and on the interior sections of Oslo S–Lillestrøm, Oslo S–Ski and Lysaker–Asker. The government has proposed to allow 470 million people to continue this work. kr in 2010. In the context of a package of measures presented by the Government at the beginning of the year, a total of 818 million were granted. kr for exceptional maintenance measures on other routes. This includes, in particular, the measures to end the slow running on Bergensbanen and Dovrebanen. In the 2010 government budget, the Government has proposed to increase the rights of operation and maintenance by a total of 586 million. kr. This represents an increase of about 15.5 pst. compare with the corresponding budget for 2009 and are in line with the Government’s 2010–2019 plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1032	The President assumes that this will require follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1035	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is also a grip for which the Left has fully supported and been a driver. So back to the problem, and that's what the Riksrevision points out, and that's nothing new for us who's been following railway policy over time. There is a lack of coordination and targeting of actions to reduce the operational problems between the Railway Works and the NSB AS and that the delays have had unclear responsibilities. So my question is, what concrete new approach will this Council of State take to take seriously the Riksaudition report?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1044	Let me remind you that it is a comprehensive and time-consuming work to get improvements and maintenance started. It's also an important part of this. The railway works can demonstrate that increased maintenance efforts have already given effect. For example, the number of signal failures for the country below one so far in 2009 has been reduced by 20 pst. compared to the corresponding period last year. The goal is to halve the number of hours of delay within the next four years, using focused efforts. And then in the last few months, too little material has been involved, because the NSB has started a maintenance program for the oldest train sets. It shall provide a qualitatively better train material at a later stage, to the delight of the travellers. But for a period now it'll probably be that NSB has less material at its disposal than normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1051	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am disappointed to note that no new, concrete action is being taken on the problem of coordination between the Railway Agency and the NSB. But I'm trying to keep going. Several teams, including representatives from the Government, have pointed to the need for renewal and increased track capacity to address many of the challenges facing the Council of State. In the Government’s proposal for a national transport plan, the Government is in line with day one in terms of bets on e.g.: the double track Oslo-Ski. This is a problem section that is also pointed out by the National Audit Office. Does the Council of State understand that we are disappointed that the Government has broken its promise by not following the National Transport Plan from day one? And what will this mean for the problem with the new double track Oslo-Ski? Will that mean delay?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1058	Let me first say that a disappointment like this actually seems to me to be difficult to take over with the amount of effort that, after all, lies there now – both in the budget on rail for 2010 and with the alert national transport plan that I have as an ambition to follow up to the point and the dot. So it's that maintenance already gives improvements. And here it's a fix when it's a signal error. And there's always an interaction between the Railway Agency and the NSB to achieve as good and forward-looking solutions as possible. But it's not going to happen that there's a lot of years of neglect here. I understand that there's a sore point for Borghild Tenden, but that's the way it is. It also means that we have now seen full pressure on what we have promised, and we are very observant of the need for the double-track Oslo-Ski to be realised in accordance with the plans that are out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1068	«In the month of November, we remember that it is heading for winter. Winter conditions have already marked road traffic. Good warnings about weather, driving and driving conditions, good preparedness and careful winter operation of roads, good information to users and good monitoring of winter driving vehicles are among the conditions that can contribute to safe driving conditions on Norwegian roads in winter 2009/2010. What new or reinforced measures will the Ministry of Transport ensure to improve road safety in the coming winter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1075	I am busy with a safer way. A good winter maintenance is a requirement for that very thing. The state road system is therefore working continuously to improve winter operations. In addition, measures aimed at road users are introduced. In order to ensure the quality of the work, the State Road Administration will strengthen the follow-up and control of the contractors carrying out winter operations and maintenance work on the roads, among others. through random checks. I agree that good information to road users helps to facilitate safe and efficient traffic management. In order to improve the information for road users, this includes: set up information boards at Hönefoss and Gol, informing about the status of the crossings between the Austland and the West, so that road users can choose the most appropriate mountain crossing at any time. For the most important cross-country crossings between east and west, during wintertime, an arrangement shall also be made to make available forecasts of expected weather and pre-conditions six and twelve hours in time. In addition, the State Road Service has placed around 110 cameras on different road sections throughout the country. The Internet pages of the Road Service will at any time display live images of these. The service has appeared to be popular, and according to the Road Directorate, the number of lookups increases when the weather and pretence are difficult. On the basis of a previously given signal from the Ministry of Transport, the State Road Administration aims at further targeting of the roadside inspection by heavy-duty vehicles, for example. by prioritising the control of tyre and chain equipment in the event of snowfall and expected snowfall. In the course of its extension, an internal road service has strengthened cooperation between those who carry out the role of commissioner for the operational and maintenance work and the roadside control. Closer cooperation between these disciplines helps to ensure that the relevant actions are implemented as early and targeted as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1086	Thanks for the answer. At the hearing of the Transport Committee last Monday, the Landsforeningsfor Verkehrsskammeren said that maintenance of the roads also includes good drilling and ice melting, and that if you gain confidence in improving winter maintenance, more people will be able to drive smoothly. The National Association for Traffic Damage also points to the fear that the transfer of responsibility for the maintenance of the national roads will lead to poorer maintenance and powdering of responsibilities. Will the Ministry of Transport have special attention this winter to winter maintenance and winter operations in view of the transfer of responsibility for other national roads to county municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1095	I think there's reason to think that there's going to be a lot of attention about winter maintenance coming winter, precisely because the county councils that are so close to these roads, themselves going to follow along. This is something that I'm constantly busy with. Not least the consequences of transferring responsibility to the county councils, which I believe will be positive, it is important to follow suit. Let me also say that in the previous winter season it was agreed to do several sharpenings in the requirements of tyre and chain equipment. The Ministry of Transport has also asked the Directorate of Road to make the best possible use of existing permits in road traffic laws to impose temporary restrictions on individual vehicles or groups of vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1102	Thank you again for your answer. In its first response, the Council of State drew particular attention to information measures aimed at users of the high-mountain crossings. It's positive. The most important thing, of course, is that the transitions are open, that it is possible to get there and that you don't get closed connections. The question is what to do to ensure that the roads are open, i.e. less closed, even under difficult conditions of winter. In this respect, I would also like to ask when to evaluate the Road Administration’s strategy with ‘barway’, i.e. early salting and winter drift aimed at the highest possible level, the evaluations that have been or will be carried out, and the results of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1109	Let me do the last one first. I need to check more closely what are the further plans, so I must be allowed to send an answer to the representative Sortevik. When it comes to open mountain passes, it is quite obvious that it means too many individuals in this country, and not least for business. We're going to have a continuous focus on the transitions to be open, as many transitions as possible and of course for as long as possible, within the material that one has at its disposal, and within the security that has to be taken care of at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1119	‘Good mobile coverage is very important for both business and individuals. 95 pst. of the households in Agder have mobile coverage, but measured at micro-level it turns out that the coverage is much lower. In Iveland, less than half of the households have coverage. During the autumn election campaign, the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, Kleppa, promised to address this matter. Many are therefore very disappointed that there is no funding for this in the 2010 state budget. How will the State Council contribute to full mobile coverage in Agder?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1126	The government's goal is for people to be able to choose where to bow. I am busy securing mobile coverage that contributes to such an option, as well as – of course – to many other factors. Norway is currently one of the world's best mobile coverage countries. Full 99.9 pst. of households and more than 87 pst. land is covered by one or more mobile networks. This means that about 10,000–15,000 people don't have mobile coverage where they live. We know that far more than this will experience that they do not have coverage because of the quality of their mobile phone, constructional barriers or signal suppression. The measurements from Agder indicate exactly that. With as good mobile coverage as we have in Norway, people rightly expect the mobile phone to work at any time. People set up their daily activities based on it. This makes it extra difficult for the few who live, feed or travel a lot in areas with poor coverage. The areas still lacking satisfactory mobile coverage have far too little activity to make it profitable for providers to expand coverage. I'm impressed by the cooperation they've had in Agder. Let me point out that there are, in fact, means for further expansion also in the 2010 state budget. Firstly, the free income of municipalities and county councils has been strengthened, and secondly, the resources of the county councils to go to regional development have increased. In addition, the budget of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs is the special means of infrastructure. The amount of the so-called residuals is about 100 million. kr. These are transferred to county municipalities that have municipalities in the district policy area. In this way, the Agder County, in agreement with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, can use these funds for better mobile coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1139	Thank you for a good answer. I am pleased that the Council of State is impressed by the cooperation in Agder. I think maybe it's a model that one could have seen in several places where one has a good cooperation between municipalities and county councils. As the Council of State may be aware, the project is ready. One has gone through and looked at the coverage of the municipalities, and now only the money is missing. I notice that the Council of State points out that there are other items that can be used by municipalities and county councils. But after the project, there is about one missing. 60 million. kr. The municipalities and county councils may imagine a third, a spice layer, where the municipalities contributed 20 million. SEK, the county council of 20 million. kr, and one had then expected or hoped that the government could spit in the last 20 million – at least on the basis of a previous signal. So my question is: can the Council of State look at the possibility of concretely bringing more government funds to the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1150	I can confirm that I have met the various actors who are responsible for this cooperation in Agder County. I therefore have good reason to say that I am impressed when it comes to what they have already done with broadband. They have done a good job both in purchasing and negotiating with providers. They have also received central funds from the Højkom scheme, which was at an earlier date, and from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Then it's enough that there are many good projects that could have received state support if the amount of funds in the state budget was even greater, but here are some highlights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1157	Iveland Municipality is a municipality that we both know well. Less than 50 pst. mobile coverage is unacceptable. As far as I've seen, the Government's ambition is that there should be full mobile coverage, and the Council of State has also stated that a wish to spend up to $1 billion to get it done. That's why I have a hope that the Council of State can be a little more concrete, because it can be arranged relatively cheaply to ensure that whole Agder gets full mobile coverage. The question is: Is it possible to look at a scheme where you can enter with, for example: Twenty million. kr in government funds to get a split layer so that Agder gets full mobile coverage? And in that case, is it possible to do it in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1164	Let me first say, when it comes to mobile coverage, there has been a lot of happening in the last four years, from the authorities of the transport sector, both the department and the postal and telecommunications authorities. A range of sections and tunnels are now covered, and the network has been strongly upgraded to provide much higher data capacity and more services than before. Then the president could have corrected me that I am moving far beyond the responsibility of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. I know well, and I know that there are more funds to the county councils than it was in the current year. There are also these residual resources at my disposal, so I'm going to contact myself with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and ask her to follow up on these municipalities, but I promise concrete amounts today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1171	The President is absolutely certain that there is good contact between the two government councils mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1177	I am pleased to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘As the county council, Sigbjørn Johnsen has demanded far stronger investment on the road and rail, reorganisation of the transport operations and introduction of new forms of financing such as OPS and project financing. In a chronicle last year, he wrote, among other things, ‘Norway has been made arrears in meeting the national infrastructure needs both in terms of rail and road’. Is the Council of State in agreement with the Minister of Finance that new organisational and financial arrangements are necessary to achieve a strong road and rail level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1186	Let me take advantage of the opportunity to thank the new leader in the Committee for the inclusion of what I hope can be a constructive debate in the European Parliament on ambitions and instruments in the field of transport policy. Political will is absolutely necessary in order to bring about a strong boost to transport. It has been demonstrated to the highest extent by the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 proposal. This transport plan involves a lift of DKK 100 billion, or 45 p.p., compared to the previous transport plan. On average, there are 10 billion more in the year to road, track and coast. If one compares – that is interesting – with the original proposal for a framework in the previous plan, from the previous government, the difference is more than 2 billion dollars a year, as the bulk of the population increases the scope of the plan at that time. An equally important step to lift roads and paths is to show ability. I also think the government has shown so far, from day one. The previous national transport plan, for the period 2006-2009, was overfilled by $5 billion for road and rail. This means that if a comparison is made with the 2006 draft budget, the government of Stoltenberg II, including the 2010 budget, averaged $4.9 billion more a year. Then, in the 2010 draft budget, alerts are posted to a gradual escalation to the level of the national transport plan. Compared with the 2009 budget, the total increase is DKK 3.4 billion. With this pace of escalation, the Government is so far well on track to realise the promise in the national transport plan, concretely reflected in the framework level for the period 2010–2013. Hareide uses the term ‘strong lift’. I think the national transport plan is a ‘powerful lift’. As the plan shows, the Government is particularly busy increasing its transport investments and ensuring that they are used as efficiently as possible. Increased maintenance is also important. In order to achieve the transport policy objectives that are agreed in this Chamber, I think we should be louder about proposals both within and outside the budgetary and funding system we have today. In the national transport plan, the government has stressed the importance of raising the rate of trade with the means available to us within today's budgetary system. It should not prevent us from being open and considering measures that will give us an even more efficient and faster deployment of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1199	I would like to thank you for your answer. I see it as an invitation to good cooperation here in Stortinget, just when it's about what's going on in structure and organisational grip. I also want to say that I feel that the national transport plan is an uplifted and clear, but I also feel that earlier Sigbjørn Johnsen writes about this in his chronicle, it is worth listening to – as former finance minister he knows exactly this issue. Some of what I think may be important is that we see that this type of project reduces both the time aspect and the cost aspect. Let me just use an example here. We see that the route Lysaker – Asker would have cost NOK 1.5 billion less if we had built it out in five years instead of ten years, as it is now. Does the Council also see that we can get more money from this kind of organization?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1208	The answer is yes, it might be, that's the example. When it comes to ensuring good progress, the Government has followed up. Both the double-track Sandnes–Stavanger and Lysaker–Sandvika were started under the previous government, with very small promises. It is also the case that there are important investment projects in terms of both road and track that are currently separated as own items in the budget in order to follow them more closely. The state road service also makes more use of what we call alternative contract strategies. Tolls have been tried here; tolls have also been tested here. I'm sure I'll have to stress that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1215	We have now had hearings in the committee, and we feel, for example, that organisations like LO now are more positive about trying out these kinds of forms of funding. I think it shows that there is a broad community that sees the possibilities for this sector, and that thinks new and takes organizational action. I would also like to point out the possibilities we have when it applies both to the Railway Agency and to the State Road Service as a public body. Today they are organized as agencies directly under the Ministry of Transport. I want to challenge the Council of State: with the experience we have with, among other things. Avinor, will she look at the possibilities of using the experience of this type of ether to think about new griffons?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1222	I feel that it has already been done in this field. The fact that an important investment project has now been identified on its own, that an emphasis is placed on trying out alternative contract strategies, i.e. split the contracts and thus actually also have experience that, in some cases, it may give more way to the money – and the fact that one here has used tolls and tried out OPS solutions means a willingness of the Government to try alternative funding. Organisation in state enterprises can give a certain amount of freedom – it may be. We're going to be open to discuss it more closely if we meet up with good arguments. But let me finish by saying that what matters to the seventh and last thing is the priorities that are being done in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1232	‘Previous Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has recently spoken on several occasions for increased use of private healthcare providers. This is in order to reduce health cows in specialist health services, drug treatment and rehabilitation. Unfortunately, this is not to be found, either in Soria Moria II or in proposals for the government budget. Is the Council of State of the opinion that there is a need to use private providers more in the future, and can we expect this to be government policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1239	The government is following up the new government platform to strengthen hospitals’ finances, so that more patients are treated and waiting times are kept low. This government has significantly strengthened the budget of hospitals. Since we joined in 2005, we have allocated more resources for patient treatment. With next year’s proposal for an increase of DKr 1.45 billion, patient treatment allocation has actually increased by DKr 8.3 billion from 2005 to 2010. The draft budget facilitates growth in all patient treatment of about 1.3 pst. from 2009 to 2010. Thus, the increase applies to all patient groups seeking assistance in specialist healthcare — in somatic matters, mental health protection, drug treatment and rehabilitation. The average waiting time for specialist healthcare treatment was 73 days in the second quarter of 2009. In recent years, both waiting times and the number of patients waiting for treatment have increased slightly — despite the fact that there has been a strong increase in patient treatment in hospitals at the same time. Never before have so many been treated in Norwegian hospitals. About 100 000 more were treated in 2008 than in 2005. But we're not satisfied that many patients have to wait a long time. We'll get to that. The government believes that the public should be the pillars of health care. Private actors are an important complement to providing healthcare of high quality to the whole population and with the shortest possible waiting time. As the representative Olsen is aware, the new government platform emphasises the need for regional health businesses to put in place measures to reduce waiting times for diagnosis and treatment. That is what we are following up in the 2010 budget proposal. Using private actors may be one of the measures in question if it helps to reduce the waiting time. The Government will return to this in the 2010 regional health enterprises mission papers. Questions have been asked about the appropriateness of today’s waiting list targets for managing and planning the specialist health service. As indicated by Prop. 1 S wishes to review today's waiting list targets and assess whether they need to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1256	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I still feel the need for a follow-up, because I do not think that an increase of 1.3 pst. in the hospital sector when we have 250,000 in line, is particularly expansive policy. The Health Committee of the European Parliament has previously unanimously decided that the next major area of activity is rehabilitation. When Stortinget has meant it unanimously – and when we see the draft state budget presented and the large available capacity we have in the private and non-profit sector – I want to ask the Council of State again: do you not feel that you can use the available capacity that exists, even better, also socio-economic?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1263	As I said, we put great emphasis on the fact that waiting times are going down. With regard to the queue to which it was referred, many people are waiting for outpatient treatment and just as fully in line. It is important to address this issue and look at the tools that are needed to reduce waiting time and to provide patients with better treatment. As I say, health care companies use and can use private actors if this reduces waiting times. When it comes to rehabilitation, I also want to show that we spend a lot more money on this. It is an important area in which we also have a great deal of focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1270	I want to follow up the same one more time. We know that there is a lot of free capacity in the private and non-profit sector – just as there is of course some free capacity in the public sector – and it would make sense to bring people out of waiting lists queues and back to work. That way, we save money on the social budget and other things. When we know that we have this available capacity, shouldn't the Council of State be more offensive in the letter that will go to the health regions and say that you want to use this capacity that is in the non-profit sector, because that will benefit society?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1277	As I said, we're busy bringing down the waiting lists and waiting times for the patients. Using private actors is one of the instruments. At the same time, we are also concerned that we should make full use of the public offer where we have it. But we see that the private is a good supplement in many places. It is also the case that healthcare companies have the direct dialogue and agreements with private operators in this area, and it is also those who assess the quality and see which providers they will actually use. We need to have full pressure on this, go into it and look at the problem of waiting lists – at least I can promise the representative Olsen. And then we're going to follow this up on health businesses as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1287	My question to the Minister for Health is: ‘The investment grant for new hospitalisation sites has been at the same level over several years. This means that municipal co-financing is increasing. Especially for municipalities in a difficult economic situation, this will mean that some do not have the resources to build new health homes, all the time when the investment grant is not increased. Will the Council of State consider increasing the grant for the construction of new nursing homes, so that all municipalities with needs are given a real opportunity to make use of the grant scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1296	The State grants equivalent to 25 pst. of the cost of investment in lucky day care facilities. It is done through the investment scheme for nursing homes and homes. The assessments related to the grant share are based on estimates and averages of investment costs for lucky day care facilities — in particular: experience from the action plan for the care of the elderly. Both the basis of calculation and the grant share are price adjusted in line with the overall level of costs in society. This means that more grants will be given in 2009 than in 2008. The aim of the investment grant granted by the Home Bank to lucky day care facilities is to provide a grant commitment of 12 000 places in the period 2008-2015. So far, 3 500 units have been promised. If we include next year's commitment framework, we are up to 6,000 units in 2010. The Government follows closely the applications submitted under the grant scheme. The framework provided for the scheme and its phase-in will be considered on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1307	I thank you for your answer. The state recommends that we have a coverage of 25 pst. to the number of older people over 80 years of age, and then we need 17 000 sick places. Municipalities set up hospitals and shelter them all over the country, and care homes are built in front of hospitals. These tend to have a lower crew than a nursing home, and even if they have a standard of living, patients tend to be moved from nursing homes to nursing homes when they become heavily nurturing. Centres for Nursing Research — South expresses strong concern that the development of nursing homes should be reduced and that municipalities will choose the cheapest solution. They say we'll be facing a real crisis in 10 years if we go to bed now. The Council of State has stated to the Municipal Report that she does not share that concern. What is it when the Council of State knows that the health scientists don't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1318	It is difficult to comment on a quote from the Municipal Report in which I do not know the context. I just want to say that it is a priority, important area to follow up the action plan for the care of the elderly, for which there has been a lot of attention, and for which there is a broad consensus. We're going to follow up on the 12,000 sick homes we've told us to build until 2015. In addition, it is important to increase staffing in municipalities. As I said, we will follow this situation closely in the years to come – both in terms of the need, and in terms of the framework and the efforts of the municipalities here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1323	I thank you for your answer again. With regard to the investment grant, this means that municipalities have to provide much more now than they did a few years ago. The economy of the municipalities is quite implacable. We know that there is a need for NOK 2.5 billion more in the municipalities to achieve the 3pst goal that the state has set. Therefore, there is limited scope for new investments. The Ministry of Knowledge has taken over the fact that we have a number of press areas in this country. For the construction of student cabins, they provide NOK 600 000 for student cabins – that is, at the same level as the one provided for a nursing home in the press areas. Can the Council of State imagine that we might be able to get a more differentiated investment grant to hospitals that deal with this problem? Will the possibility of further increasing the grant be considered at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1332	As I say, we have an ongoing situation in terms of grants and scope. Our goal is 12,000 places by 2015. We will follow up on the basis of what was adopted in the Grand Duchy in 2008. Then I would like to say in the case of the municipalities: I have a very strong understanding that these are demanding tasks for the municipalities. Equally full, there is also a great interest in the municipalities to follow this up, because they see it as a very important primary task. Then I will also show that there has been a significant growth in municipal income during this government, and it is also in the budget in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1342	‘Russ abuse is an important cause of poverty and exclusion from society. The waiting time for drug users entitled to treatment has increased in recent years. At the same time, the available capacity of several drug institutions is owned by non-profit actors, and some institutions have also had to close down because health regions have abandoned contracts. Is the State Council satisfied with the drug field in the State budget and with the outsourcing of drug users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1349	Many drug addicts do not get the services they need and are entitled to. This is a great burden on themselves and their relatives. Many have experienced — over time — that they have to wait a long time before starting treatment and that there is not enough connection in the course of treatment. Equally full: The government has strengthened the drug field by about 835 million. kr since we took over in 2005, including the draft government budget for 2010. About 350 million. Dr has been strengthening treatment provision in the specialist healthcare service for this particular group. The escalating plan for the drug field ends in 2010, and after that we will continue to develop the drug field, as stated in St.prp. No 1 for 2009-2010. In the request decision No: 478, 16 June 2009, asks the Government to propose a ‘stronger commitment to overall drug treatment and follow-up’ in the context of the 2010 State budget. Better coordinated health and care services are an important objective of the Interaction Reform to be implemented by the Government, which lies in the United Kingdom for treatment. I agree with the representative Syversen that there is too long waiting for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. At the same time, it is important to be aware that the number of drug addicts entitled to treatment has increased considerably since the entry into force of the drug reform in 2004. This has made great demands on the treatment apparatus. In 2009, we recorded some increase in waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. At the same time, regional health businesses have strengthened their treatment capacity. This increase will not affect waiting times until the third tertiary in 2009 or the first tertiary in 2010. The representative Syversen takes up the situation of the private, ideal actors in the field of drugs. As Minister of Health and Welfare, I am concerned that the services of drug addicts should be of the highest quality possible. Quality has been a central element of the procurement processes carried out by regional health businesses. I am sure that they have made sure to acquire services of the highest quality possible. Private actors have a central place in the treatment of drug addicts. More than 60 pst. in the case of multi-disciplinary specialised treatment, day-care facilities are operated by private providers who have contracts with regional health establishments. These agreements have been concluded in line with the public acquisition legislation. It is the regional health enterprises that have to assess, according to their responsibilities, the needs of specialist health services for the population in the health region and the organisation of services. This means that regional health businesses themselves need to consider the need to conclude agreements on multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts with private institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1364	I think both the Council of State and I can agree that when someone who is addicted to drugs and who is motivated for treatment and wants to enter treatment, wait for six, seven, eight, nine weeks before there is free space, it is not certain that the same motivation is present. It's a big challenge for Health-Norway, and socio-economically I think it would have paid off to bet more strongly. Then it becomes a great paradox for me that well-functioning institutions that have been operating for 30 to 40 years with good results are at the same time being shut down, because they do not get into a tendering process that is now being run quite so rawly by regional health businesses. But I understand that the thesis that Granny is not going to tender does not apply to drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1369	So now it's 60 pst. by those institutions are private. Many are run by non-profit institutions that do a great job — and I fully agree — towards drug users. At the same time, however, in this field, we need to comply with the procurement legislation. I also believe that the former Minister of Health of the Christian People's Party, Dagfinn Højbrätten, made a strong commitment to the drugs field in 2004. Quality is, in fact, a very important criterion for health professionals to choose treatment provision. But I very much agree with the representative Syversen and share his concern about waiting time. I promise that at least we will do everything we can to reduce the waiting time as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1376	During the former Minister of Health, Højbräten, there were no such closures of non-profit institutions, as one example. We have had several rounds here, but I just have to note that the government is running by law on public acquisitions and refers to EEA rules that other countries within the EU do not even use. It is probably now three years since the Government at the request of the Stortinget, and after a document proposal from the Christian People's Party, they said they should look into this legislation, and we must note that nothing has happened. It must also mean – I regret to say – that there is no commitment to see the importance of non-profit institutions to this sector. You can lose a tender, but then you have also lost the line of treatment that has been in 30-40 years, which has produced good results, and then a commercial company comes in. But okay, if this isn't of interest to the Government, we have to take note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1381	I notice that questions are asked about the government's motives for this. I can assure you that the government's motives here are to provide the best possible treatment – and as soon as possible. It is worrying that many are in line. At the same time, I cannot quite understand how to meet the strong need of the opposition to get more private people to provide services, while not getting a tender. We follow that legislation, but I'm always willing to see if we can make changes or adjustments to the legislation. I am concerned that there should be quality in the treatment offered throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1390	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Christian People’s Party wants a dental reform to ensure that dental health is financed as other health services. As a very first and highest priority step towards the full implementation of such a reform, the current system of freedom of payment must be extended to long-term social assistance beneficiaries. It is also necessary to ensure free treatment for other groups with similar low disposable income. This must be gradually extended to all persons with income below 2 G. Will the Council of State agree with these proposals of the Christian People's Party?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1399	The government's objective is for the public to gradually assume greater responsibility in the dental field. In the hoarding message about future dental services, St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, the possible extension of public funding for dental care is discussed. Based on current rights to publicly funded dental services, it is proposed to respond to those most in need for disease and economic reasons. Persons with very low income and people with high dental costs are mentioned in this context. In line with the Storing Communication, the Ministry is in the process of identifying and analysing what it will cost to extend the social security scheme. We have little knowledge of the real needs of the population and of how the dental condition is for those who can't afford to go to a dentist, or who have other reasons not to. The government will come back with the measures in question in budgetary terms. I appreciate the commitment of the Christian People's Party and look forward to working together with the opposition parties to follow up the proposals in the paper and find targeted measures for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1408	It has been quite a long time since the dental report was processed in Stortinget. The only concrete dental bet that we now see in the government statement is that over 75 years of age should be given free dental control, so it is not addressed to vulnerable groups, such as. long-term social assistance recipients. Isn't this a right to the election promises that all three government parties had? One should also have expectations that this would be faster than new investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1413	I'm concerned that when we say we're going to do something, we're going to implement it, and have the opportunity to implement it. The representative Davøy knows that we have major health and care challenges. We want to make a good offer also linked to dental health, but we have to go step by step. That is why we have said that we should first make an offer to them over 75 years, according to what is on the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1420	The Christian People's Party has on a number of occasions called for a stronger impoverishment from the Government. Social differences also affect health status in terms of inequalities in health and violate the objective of equivalent healthcare for all. It also applies to dental services. It is important to take action against specific groups to ensure all good dental health, as is also stated in the dental report from the Government. It's been a very long time since we had this message for processing. Year after year, we have also requested when the measures come, and each time, the answer is: we push it, we push it. Now it's going to be investigated further. Which groups does this apply? I think many of us know which groups it's about. This could have been started earlier. Has the government simply reduced its ambitions in relation to what was presented in the dental report? Because it seems like it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1427	We haven't reduced ambitions, but as I said, we have to start somewhere. Now we start with those who are over 75 years old. That's what's also on the government platform. We first have to do a thorough work on an investigation to see what the state is, and what this will actually mean. Then we'll come back when that job is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1435	‘Does the Government intend to ensure that people from all over the country with eating disorders are given the opportunity to choose treatment at the Capio Anorexia Centre in Fredrikstad if it is the offer that can provide help as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1440	Regional health establishments shall at all times assess whether the supply to people with eating disorders is of sufficient quality and capacity. This may be done by offering in public institutions or by agreeing with private service providers. If regional health enterprises buy services from private providers, this can be done either through the purchase of adhoc sites or through a framework agreement, as Health South-East RHF has done. Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad offer specialized treatment to people with eating disorders. Capio does not offer treatment to the very sickest. The most ill will need an offer at regional level, in close cooperation with somatic specialist health services. Capio has applied to the Ministry of Health and Welfare for hospital approval, but has been refused because the centre’s activity is not considered hospital treatment. Capio is therefore not covered by the free choice of hospitals, so that patients from all over Norway can choose there. Act on patient rights and regulations on the prioritisation of healthcare, etc. constitutes the legal basis for prioritising patients referred to specialist healthcare. The legislation should help to ensure that those most in need get to proper health care as quickly as possible. Where it is considered that a patient with eating disorders is entitled to the necessary health care, a period of time shall be fixed within which professional care requires the provision of medical care to fulfil the patient’s right at the latest. Despite a common legal basis, there have been considerable differences in the prioritisation of the prioritisation rule. This applies both between regional health enterprises, between disciplines and within health enterprises and disciplines. The Directorate for Health has published priority guidance counsellors in several disciplines, including: mental health protection for adults and mental health protection for children and young people. Prioritisation guides shall contribute to the equal treatment of «equal» patients, irrespective of their country of residence and the hospital to which they are referred. There is a requirement to be a regional competence centre for eating disorders in all health regions. Competence settings are now in place in all regions. The last one is recently established in Health North, and they have received patients from October 12. The mission document of the regional health establishments for 2008 and 2009 has been clear that the supply of people with eating disorders needs to be further developed. As Minister of Health, I will not review the professional assessments relating to whether Capio will be the best offer for individual patients, or whether they will receive an equal or better public health service offer. In meetings with the regional health establishments on the 2010 mission document, regional health establishments are invited to use the offer at Capio Anorexia Centres where this is correct on the basis of a professional assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1455	The reason why Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad are not approved as hospitals is not the content of the offer, but that the preparatory work of the Special Health Service Act is based on a very strict somatic approach to the definition of hospitals. The strict somatic approach to the definition of hospitals resolved the Stortingen in the context of the 2004 drug reform, when one gave drug addicts a specialist offer in defining multidisciplinary specialised treatment as a specialist treatment. Clearly, the group of patients with eating disorders has the same need for multidisciplinary specialised treatment over time. Thus, it is our responsibility to be able to change the law, so that this is an offer that can fall within the right to free hospital choice. Could the Minister for Health support such a change of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1462	As I said in my post, I believe that it is not a political assessment whether to approve an institution as a hospital or not. It must be done on a medical basis. At the same time, I would like to say that if there is something that has been raised in Stortinget, where it is requested that the law be amended, we must look at it and go through it. But to sit politically in addition to the professional evaluation done in the Health Directorate regarding the approval of Capio Anorexia Centers as a hospital, I will not do without further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1467	I just want to remind you again that it's not the professional content, but the law that's obstructing here, and the law is absolutely a political responsibility. What today’s rights are linked to a breach of a defined time limit for processing does, of course, mean that any offer in a region, for example: an outpatient offer to the group of eating disorders, according to the law, will be perceived as having given a treatment offer. Thus, the fact that a health company provides an outpatient supply to a person with eating disorders would outweigh the fact that that patient is not given the opportunity to receive a multidisciplinary specialised long-term treatment, for example. at the Capio Anoriki Center in Fredrikstad. This is very serious in relation to this patient group, and it also leads to patients who are in the hospital today... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1472	As I said in my post, it has been important to develop offers for people with eating disorders in all health care establishments, so that there can be an offer that can serve the population throughout the country. In addition, I have said that in meetings on the 2010 mission document, regional health companies are invited to use the offer at Capio Anorexia Center where they believe it is correct on the basis of a professional assessment. I'd like to clarify that. So there's nothing wrong with choosing to use it, either by buying adhoc places or by making agreements. But what is important is that there is also an offer across the country at regional health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1480	‘The government statement by the Government of Stoltenberg II stated that the Government will ensure rehabilitation and training for all those who need it. In the new Government Declaration, this wording has been deleted and replaced by a wording that provides sufficient resources for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. What is the reason why ambitions in this area have been reduced, and what is sufficient resources to the field in the Council of State’s assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1487	I can assure the representative, Sjøli, that the government still has high ambitions in the area of rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and there has never been such a lot of resources in this field in the past. We are now halfway through the planning period of the National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation 2008–2011. The work so far is described in Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010. Both the specialist health services and the municipalities are responsible for providing good services to those in need of rehabilitation or rehabilitation. Most healthcare companies have their own provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation through outpatient services and outpatient teams. Through this government, the municipalities have strengthened the economy and thus improved the ability to follow up their responsibilities. The appropriations for the purchase of services from private training and rehabilitation institutions have increased from 1 020 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 1 139 million. kr in 2009. In addition, a number of private institutions have received financial support for conversion projects in recent years. Purchases of services from private training and rehabilitation institutions have also been agreed through the ‘Repatriation Rehabilitation scheme’. One of the measures in the strategy was to develop an action plan following the ‘Strategic Plan — Habilitation of Children’, with specific actions for young people in the transition from child to adult. The Health Directorate presented the plan this summer, and they will also follow up the action in the plan. Support has also been provided for a number of development projects across health regions. These projects contribute to strengthening the provision of children. In June, the Government presented the Annual Report on the Reform of Cooperation. Patients in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation need coordinated, multidisciplinary and planned services. High attention to improving interaction and action to implement the Cooperation Reform is important to strengthen the area of rehabilitation and habilitation. As the representative of Sjøli knows, the cooperation reform is now under consideration in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1503	I thank the Council of State for the answer. With regard to the Interaction Reform, there is a great deal of lack of commitment to rehabilitation there. I'm recording that the Council of State is very pleased with the situation, but there is actually a sea between the reality that the Council of State has, and the situation that users, as professionals and as rehabilitation institutions, are experiencing, that is, major defects in the offer. And no matter what the Council of State says, the wording is very vague. It is also confirmed by the Government’s own budget for 2010, where there is a lack of escalation and a commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation. The Soria Moria I commitments are not met and the lack of commitment is also unfortunate in relation to the national strategy. This leads to considerable uncertainty for users, leads to poorer supply and unnecessary keeping out of the labour market, and many suffer from reduced quality of life. This is a fact. When will the Council of State and the Government take the challenges of rehabilitation seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1512	I just have to show you what I said. I believe that the measures taken by the Government, the plans in place, which have also been dealt with and developed by the Health Directorate, also show a commitment in this area. I have a great deal of understanding that those who don't get rehabilitation in time get poor quality of life. I'm also very concerned that we're going to succeed better in this area. At the same time, it has been a bet, and it will be an important area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1519	Thus, ‘great understanding’ is not enough for those who need rehabilitation. It is a fact, as both professionals and users perceive, that the Government lacks the will to invest and prioritise in this area, both in terms of treatment provision and research and development. The government itself says in the budget that ‘there is a lack of consistency between supply and needs’, and they also say that they want to have the ‘best possible knowledge base’ for development in the field, both in the first and second line services. This concerns the provision of rehabilitation services to children, young people, adults, young people with diseases and disabilities and those with hearing impairment. And it's going to develop and spread knowledge. For all of this, the government has invested 17.7 million. kr. Does the Council of State really believe that this is a commitment to obtaining the necessary knowledge and development across the field, both in the first and second line service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1526	If that was the only amount we spent, it would be completely wrong, but it is not. As I say, this is of course an important area. It's important for those who need rehabilitation, actually to get it. At the same time, we know that this is an offer given throughout the country. I come from a part of the country where there is little provision for rehabilitation, and very many people have to travel to other parts of the country to get an adequate offer. It is clear that it is desirable to develop this offer further, and that is something we are about to do. It's not that this is down-priority from the Government. This is something we are concerned about, but we are also concerned that the provision of rehabilitation is to be an offer of high quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1536	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘According to the National Survey of the Health Authority in the summer of the manning and competence of the car ambulance service, every fourth ambulance was not manned in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Several health establishments have stated that with their current educational capacity and recruitment they will not be able to meet the requirements of the emergency regulation before the expiry of the transitional regime on 1 April 2010. What will the Council of State do to ensure the proper manning and competence of the ambulance service by 1 April 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1545	The government emphasises the need for the people across the country to feel secure that they have access to ambulance services of good quality and competence, good preparedness and adequate response time. The ambulance service has evolved from being a pure transport service to becoming an increasingly advanced healthcare service. This means increasing demands on the competence of ambulance workers. The public investigation ‘In case of urgency.....’ from 1998 pointed out that there were considerable differences in the training and competence of ambulance staff. Since then, systematic follow-up work has been carried out on the recommendations of this NOU. In the emergency message, from 1999 to 2000, the Stoltenberg I government proposed, among others: the competence requirements for ambulance workers were to be laid down. Emergency medical services outside hospitals, adopted in 2005, shall provide the public with adequate emergency medical services outside hospitals. The regulation requires that the ambulances be two-men's officers and that at least one of them should have a letter of formal qualifications as an ambulance worker. At least one of the ambulance staff shall hold a certificate of competence for the driver of the call-out vehicle. In many places, it was not possible to introduce the skills requirements as early as 2005. It was therefore possible to derogate from the competence requirements until 1 April 2010, as the representative of Davay correctly points out. Regional health establishments are responsible for providing good and sound specialist health services to the population in their region. It also applies to ambulance services. I am well aware of the uncertainty about whether healthcare companies will be able to meet the competence requirements when the derogation expires. Health businesses have made considerable efforts to increase their skills and train enough professionals in the ambulance sector, but access to qualified personnel has been a major challenge for many health businesses. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has therefore asked regional health establishments to explain to what extent they will be able to comply with the staffing requirements of the regulation by the end of the period. Furthermore, we have asked for an explanation of the plans in place to meet the competence requirements. We have received a preliminary answer from Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord. They assume that health establishments will be able to meet the competence requirement within the time limit with their crew. They point out that it is working systematically to meet the requirements of the regulation for staffing, and we will naturally follow this closely in the future. The Government will follow the efforts of health establishments to meet the regulatory requirements closely and is confident that the requirements will be met when the derogation scheme expires on 1 April 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1564	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I fully agree with the Council of State that the ambulance service has become much more than a transport service. It's in many ways the hospital's extended arm. There is a clear need for competence. It's nice that some regions might seem to be able to do this, but others point out that they won't be able to do it. The Council of State points out that regional health establishments are responsible. While this is true, the Council of State also has a responsibility far beyond this, it is at least not the regional health companies that provide training capacity for these groups. So my follow-up question is whether the Council of State will be involved in possible numerical targets for multiple learning places, as well as other measures that should be included in a targeted plan to ensure emergency medical preparedness. This cannot be done by regional health enterprises themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1571	As I said, it is systematically working to meet the requirements of the Staff and Competence Regulations, and we will also follow this closely in the future. We have received answers, as said, from two of the regional health companies, and we follow their work and are confident that they will be able to meet the requirement when the exemption system ends on 1 April next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1576	I thank you for the answer, and I see very strongly that the Council of State believes that all the regional health companies will actually do this despite the low educational capacity. Then we're going to hope that that's right. I have another question. It is crucial that urgent and qualified emergency assistance is provided and that the report on the ambulance service, received by the Ministry in March 2009, concludes that today’s minimum requirements, i.e. those currently in the regulation, are simply too low and that crew requirements should and must be raised by 2015 and 2020 respectively – in addition to today’s requirements. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State shares this assessment, that we need additional competence than what we have in today's regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1583	I feel that you can never get enough of it. But at the same time, I would like to say that once you have set a target for a quality in the ambulance service, and that is a deadline for you to comply with the regulation – 1 April next year – I am at least very concerned that we will succeed with it, and will focus on it in the future. Of course, it is then a strong objective that we should at least achieve the quality objective that there is sound staffing and competence in the case of ambulance personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1591	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘Norwegian waste industry has for a long time requested the removal of the combustion levy in order to reduce the export of waste to Sweden. The industry reports a sharp increase in waste exports following the entry into force of the landfill ban on 1 July and that Norwegian incineration plants are now experiencing a shortage of waste. In the 2010 state budget, the Government proposes to increase the combustion levy on the contrary. What measures will the Council of State take to slow waste exports and ensure that Norwegian waste is used for environmentally friendly energy production in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1600	The introduction of the landfill ban was a very important step in waste policy. We knew in advance that there would be a lack of national treatment capacity for the first time. The great activity we are now seeing in the Norwegian waste industry is a sign that the ban is working, and that the capacity is now under development. With regard to ensuring the development of combustion plants and district heating networks, it is unfortunate that the framework conditions are so different in Norway and Sweden. We therefore monitor the situation and continuously assess whether the State instruments used in relation to waste and district heating are correct. We do not yet have enough combustion capacity in Norway to deal with all waste covered by the landfill ban. In this situation, I see it as positive that the waste is used energy in Sweden. I believe that we have advantages of having an open waste market, but will nevertheless see developments in the waste market. Putting restrictions on exports of certain types of waste is an opportunity that I take with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1609	Norwegian District Heating, KS Holding and Waste Norway previously submitted this week a study based on their member companies, which shows that if the combustion charge is removed from residual waste, the shipment of waste currently going to Sweden will be reduced by half. We are also told that several new start-ups within the district heating system have now been put on ice because of this charge. It's e.g. The Battle of Energy Recovery in Vestfold, in Alvdal, Bodø, Trondheim, Buskerud and Tromsø. We also see that several combustion and district heating plants now need to use oil and gas, and this will lead to CO2 emissions in 2010 of up to 114 000 tonnes. Is this a turn that the Council of State considers desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1617	Let me make it clear that of course we're going to go through the material and the experience that comes. The landfill ban has just come into force, so you have to let it go for a while before you see how it works. The material that the questioner refers to, we're going to go through thoroughly. We have to follow this market very closely in the future to see if it needs to be changed. Let me also add that the most important thing to the seventh and last of all is that the waste is recovered. Either it is recovered in the form of material recycling, which is always the best, or in the form of energy recovery, which is also good, is the most important thing that it happens. But we want more of that to happen in Norway, and we need to follow the market in the future to see if we have the right means to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1624	I'm glad the Council of State takes this offensive attitude, because that's what I'm reading out of the two answers that are now given. The Swedish have already decided to remove this levy from next year, so there will be an even more distorting system between Sweden and Norway in this area. This has some implications for us in Norway saying that we should develop district heating. Then we need more waste to fire these combustion plants. Otherwise it's a little weird that we spend money through Enova to build district heating, and then we don't have anything to fire them with that that's environmentally friendly. I am pleased with the signals that are now coming, but I wonder that the government in the 2010 budget is increasing this charge instead of at least keeping it stable. I am asking the Council of State for an answer as to why there will be an increase when someone will follow this matter carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1631	Let me return the compliment and say that I am very happy that the questioner does not make it as wrong that we have a single market for this, because it only creates more efficiency and makes sense. It is not wrong in itself that something is recovered in Sweden. Nor would it be wrong for any Swedish waste to be recovered in Norway. So that's a positive starting point. I fully agree with the questioner's starting point, and I also said that in my answer. Clearly, major challenges are being created when there are significant differences in the framework conditions in Sweden and Norway in this area. We need to look at whether something needs to be done with those framework conditions, but it has to be based on an assessment of the evolution of this market in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1641	From the representative of Mr Jørgen Bekkewold to the Minister for Justice: ‘If an Iranian homosexual seeks asylum in Norway, the foreign authorities will assume that he will be able to live up to his sexual orientation if this occurs within the socio-cultural framework in force in Iran. The framework for what is socially accepted in relation to gay life is very limited and associated with possible criminal reactions in Iran. In practice, Norwegian foreign authorities require that the homosexual conceals his or her orientation. Does the Council of State consider that it is an acceptable requirement to apply to a gay asylum seeker?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1649	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1655	From the representative André Oktay Dahl to the Minister for Justice: ‘The Executive Board for Emergency Communications has received significant comments from the National Audit Board on the management and implementation of the emergency network project. The need for the emergency network is considered to be greater now than when it was adopted. The size cannot be said to have received sufficient information, and the information has been late. What concrete measures does the Government implement to limit the adverse effects both in terms of safety and financial terms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1663	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1669	From the representative Anders B. Werp to the Minister for Justice: ‘There is considerable and valuable work to be done in criminal matters. How will the Council of State contribute to increasing research on the impact of housing in Norwegian prisons, with special emphasis on what can reduce relapses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1677	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1683	This question, from the representative Tina Bru to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1686	I will ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘In the submission of the State budget for 2010, a major effort was announced within the police and prosecution authorities as a result of an increased framework of DKK 1.3 billion. It is somewhat unclear how these funds will benefit the various police districts. To what extent does the submitted State budget contribute to ensuring sound police personnel in the form of increased staffing in Rogaland Police District?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1695	Never before has a larger increase in the budget of the police and prosecution authority been proposed than that presented in Prop. 1 S for 2010. There is a total of DKK 1.3 billion in increase over the 2009 budget, DKK 1.2 billion if compensation for wage and price increases is deducted. Following the adoption of the budget at Stortinget, the appropriations allocated to the police are allocated to the Police Directorate, which makes the specific allocation to each police district and special body. The distribution takes place on the basis of a resource allocation model based on a number of criteria related to police response, where crime prevention and security represent the main areas. I can therefore not now say what allocation Rogaland police district will receive for 2010. However, Rogaland Police District will have the full-year impact of the 25 civilian positions given to it in the 2009 government action package. In addition, Rogaland Police District will have an increase of two years’ work to the Service Centre for Foreign Workers in Stavanger from the autumn of 2010. This is in addition to two annual works already decided on in 2009. Other changes will be decided by the Police Directorate after discussions with the police officials’ organisations. The State and the main associations agreed on 9 July 2009 on a new agreement on the working time arrangements for the Police and Leniency Committee. As part of the agreement, it is agreed that approx. 9 000 employees receive an extended working time of one hour per day. weeks from 1 October 2009 to 1 August 2012. This represents an estimated 230 year-old resource increase for the whole country. For Rogaland police districts alone, this means about 440 hours per day. week, or approx. 12 years' work. The agreement therefore represents a significant resource growth. The Ministry of Justice is informed by the Directorate of Police of the allocation of appropriations to each police district and special body in January/February 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1708	I thank you for your answer. Rogaland police districts are in a difficult and challenging situation. Ensuring the security of citizens is one of the main tasks of the State and, as the Government itself writes in the draft budget, ‘a major public responsibility’. In a welfare society like Norway, it becomes unacceptable that people should experience a sense of insecurity when they go out, or feel that the police are unable to assist when needed. Rogaland police district is understaffed in relation to the criteria used in the calculations of the Fürst and Höverstad model. Now that the Government says that it wants to bet on strengthening the police, can the Council of State guarantee that the criteria from the model will be based on the allocation of funds to ensure adequate staffing of Rogaland police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1717	As I said, it will only be clear in January 2010 when the final distribution is adopted. But it is clear that the funds are distributed according to the needs that are around the country. It will be taken into account. Another issue that is important here is that there has been a fall in the education of police students. Our government has increased it a lot. It is also a significant increase for 2010. It will also remedy the situation and make us get more police, which I also understand the questioner is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1722	One of the criteria used in the model is population growth. Rogaland is experiencing strong population growth and therefore has a growing need for increased resources to ensure the safety of its citizens. Not long ago, a 26-year-old girl in Rogaland felt that she had to flee from her own house when an aggressive and rabid person broke into her house, because the police had no resources to get to her rescue. When the Rogaland police have to fail one of their most important tasks because of the lack of resources, it becomes clear to me that the district is unwarrantably low manned as regards the call-out capacity. That is why I hope the Council of State can respond to the following: if this draft budget is taken into account, how far away is Rogaland Police District to meet the criteria underlying what is considered to be a proper manning in Rogaland Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1729	I have to refer to the answer I gave. Then I will pass on this question to the Minister of Justice and ask that it be answered in writing, because it is not possible for me to answer anything more than what I have said: the budget has increased considerably in terms of the police. Annual work will be significantly increased next year, also in the light of the agreement with the police. That's very good. There will be a significant increase in the number of policemen – including in Stavanger, as I said. We need to get back to details when the Directorate of Police has done the job they are going to do in the light of the budget adopted by the Stortinge in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1737	From the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Justice: ‘Over several years, a number of serious violence incidents related to football matches have occurred. There have been particular violent ‘casual’ environments that plan and organise this. The clubs and the support clubs that the ‘casual groups’ claim to fight for take a strong distance from them, but they depend on the police’s efforts to solve the problem. Among other things, in Denmark, England and Sweden, own legal frameworks have been put in place to improve the police’s ability to prevent and intervene against ‘casual groups’. What action does the Council of State think is needed in this country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1745	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1751	From the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The supply situation of electricity in Central Norway has been strained in recent years, which has, among other things, led to the region being its own electricity price range. Rauma Energi has plans for upgrading Verma power plants in More and Romesdal that can increase the production of renewable energy in the region. Moving the input of the power station to Storhaugen could increase annual power generation from 70 to 150 GWh. Will the Council of State contribute to the realisation of Rauma Energia's plans for the upgrading of Verma power plants?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1759	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1766	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘An intention agreement has been concluded with Sweden that a single Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates should be in place from 1 January 2012. Last time Norway negotiated green certificates with Sweden, it aimed to include all new renewable power generation with construction start-ups after 1 January 2004. Will any new generation of power at the start of construction be expected to be included in the scheme of green certificates after 1 January 2004?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1775	On 7 September 2009, Sweden’s Minister of Industry Maud Olofsson and I signed an agreement on the principles of further cooperation. The agreement contains important principles for a common certification market such as the level of ambition, time of entry into force and technology neutrality. There are still some issues related to the establishment and work until the establishment of a single electricity licence market with Sweden. One of these issues is the question of whether the content of a national transitional regime until the single market in certificates is in place. The political platform of the Government of 7 October 2009 states that the Government will present a proposal for a transitional regime until an electricity licence market with Sweden is in place, in order to ensure continued deployment of force. I am now working on the design of such a transitional arrangement and am asking for understanding that I cannot comment at this stage on the content of what this scheme will be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1782	I thank you for your answer. I guess we're back where we were too approx. four years ago – with great uncertainty about what would happen to green certificates and the type of ahead arrangements. We have a campaign behind us where green certificates and industrial power were a very central theme, right up to the end of the election campaign. When you look at the press release of 7 September on a single certificate market, there are very vague wordings there: A look at the creation of a single green certificate market. Norway is ‘set up’ to have an ambitious commitment similar to that of Sweden and a common certification scheme ‘should’ be technology neutral. Can the Council of State guarantee that it will actually become a certificate market, and that it will not be like the last time the Red-Green government negotiated with the Swedes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1793	I am a little surprised that the representative Sødemel is concerned about drawing the agreement that has been made, in doubt. I believe that this is a good and important agreement. It is an agreement that helps to bring about peace in the power market, because it is so clear in the framework of the certification market that we will have as of 1 December 2012. Then I also completely disagreed and surprised at the claim that we are now back where we were a few years ago. I simply think that is wrong. We've taken a big step forward. We have actually negotiated an agreement with Sweden. We have a date for start-up, we have the framework for the certificate market, and we are working on the concrete work for the content of more technical nature – the legislative proposal, etc. So I think what we did just before the election this fall was very important. It was a major step forward, not least in terms of creating stability and calm in the electricity market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1802	I note that we do not get any answers when it comes to the expansions that have been in place from 2004 until today. However, in the annex to the press release to which the Minister refers, it is recalled that Norway took the initiative to discuss a single certificate market with Sweden as early as 2004. When the red-green government took over in 2005, these discussions were well under way, and one could make an agreement with Sweden. This had led to a significant increase in the production of clean renewable energy. For example, No. farmers and landowners lost large incomes on small power, which could contribute to ensuring bushing and securing income in the districts. Norway has still among the poorest renewable energy support schemes in Europe. What will the Council of State do to ensure that current and future small-scale producers have stable framework conditions that will make them venture to expand, for example. small force?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1807	I believe that what we have now done is to contribute to stability and the foreseeable framework conditions for future small-scale producers, such as for renewable energy builders. What has now been done is that we actually have a concrete plan for the entry into force of the licence market. It hasn't been there before. That means that we now have a stability and a frame around it, which has been in demand, and which has been missing. I have to say that I am very surprised that the representative Lødemel chooses to spend time and effort complaining about what was not happening under the government of Bondevik, and what was not happening three to four years ago, instead of actually seeing the opportunities that lie ahead of not least District Norway to exploit the potential of renewable energy as a result of the agreement that is now being made, and the work that we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1817	From the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office: ‘How and in what areas is the Council of State constitutionally responsible to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1823	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, and will then be answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1829	‘The Court of Auditors criticises Bioforsk and the State Agriculture Administration for breaches of public procurement rules. The National Audit Office has found shortcomings in multi-purchase protocols. Biosciences are also criticised for a share purchase without the approval of the Stortinge. What will the Council of State do to clean up the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1836	In the context of the 2008 audit, which is underlined by the representative of the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office commented on the accounts of Bioforsk and the State Agricultural Administration (SLF). Document No 1 is now under consideration in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I will follow up on any comments that Stortinget had to make in this connection. Having said that, I would like to stress that I take the criticism of the Riksaudition seriously, and that the follow-up to the errors and shortcomings of the Riksaudition has revealed is a high priority both in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and in the establishments concerned. I would also like to emphasise, as I have made in my comments on the points raised by the National Audit Office in connection with the audit of the 2008 accounts, that I have to say that I fully agree with the errors and shortcomings that the Riksaudition has revealed in its revision of the two companies. All establishments under my responsibility shall comply with the laws and regulations in force in the country, not least with the public procurement legislation. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has presented in the audit dialogue with the National Audit Office a number of measures that the two establishments have already undertaken and will undertake. Examples of actions undertaken by Bioforsk are the establishment of internal control in the procurement field and the centralisation of the purchasing function. I would also like to point out that Bioforsk is committed to external assistance to review and quality assurance procurement procedures. Similarly, the SLF has implemented a number of measures to ensure that errors and deficiencies related to the framework agreement in question are corrected. In the case of the non-authorised criticism of the purchase of shares, the procedures have been tightened up. I now assume that the purchase of shares before approval from Stortinget will not occur. The status associated with the follow-up of the actions will be a central part of the Ministry’s governance dialogue with the two activities in the future. I would also like to point out that the Ministry has strengthened its management of the underlying businesses, among others. as a result of identified errors and deficiencies on the part of the National Audit Office. Here, for example, I would like to mention that I require companies to report in management meetings between the department and the individual activities, and that the follow-up of national audit cases should be part of the general reporting to the ministry whenever necessary. Finally, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should have a significant focus on the implementation of the necessary measures by both Bioforsk and SLF, so as to avoid similar errors and shortcomings in the future. With the grips that have been taken and will be taken, it is my opinion that the errors and deficiencies that the Riksrevision has pointed out will be followed up satisfactorily.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1851	I thank you for the answer, and I have another question. Much of what the Riksrevision has found was also found the year before. How can it happen two consecutive years that the same problem is reported by the National Audit Office? Then the minister says that you want to work so that you do not make purchases that the Storting has not approved. Then my question becomes to the minister: why can't the minister guarantee that it doesn't happen, not just say you're working on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1858	Councillor Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1861	This is Lars Peder Breck. I would like to stress that in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the establishment of new businesses and major conversion processes have led to a larger and more demanding task in recent years. The management of the underlying establishments is a central and priority task for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. And, as explained in the annual budget proposal, the Ministry pays particular attention to the need for businesses to pay particular attention to the follow-up to the matters of the national audit, and not least to good staff and financial management. I would also like to point out that the Ministry has continued attention to the fact that its activities meet the necessary requirements for internal control and risk management. Then, unfortunately, you have had comments in the past, which you have worked with, and you have made changes to the procedures in order to answer that errors will not continue to happen. There is continuous work in my department, as in all other departments, and there is a clear ambition that one should remove the errors that have occurred here. As regards the issue of share purchase, we have introduced rules that it is not permissible to enter into that type of activity in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1872	The Ministry of Agriculture and Food states to the Nations that one of the reasons why purchasing is not controlled is that there are as many as 35 to 40 computer systems. Then my question becomes to the minister: what do you want to do with this? You want to make sure you get fewer computer systems, so we can get control of this, or what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1877	Before the President gives the floor to Councillor Lars Peder Breck, the President will note that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1883	The question raised by the representative, Mr Tåldal, is relevant and important. I would like to stress that it is a clear ambition to carry out further simplification work within the businesses for which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible. Within the State's agricultural management, which manages important and large support systems, economic systems, this is not least a major challenge. We're constantly working on providing resources to improve in that area. As far as the issue of control of purchases is concerned, it is important from my point of view to stress that following up the Riksaudition remarks is one thing; being leading was is another thing. I have put in place measures to intensify the underlying agencies and the Ministry to follow procurement procedures adopted by the Stortinget and to follow the requirements and requirements outlined by the work of the National Audit Office. It's a work that I take very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1893	‘From 1 January 2007, the new warning paragraph was incorporated into the law. This should take care of the alert. The new paragraph has now worked for over two years. Is the Council of State satisfied with the results, knows whether the law has taken care of the alert, and can the Council of State also explain how many cases have been dealt with in the judiciary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1900	All establishments, both in the private and public sectors, are covered by the new alert paragraph and the rules apply to workers in all kinds of posts. In addition to the general ban on bullying and harassment in the Work Environment Act, this has provided us with strict protection against retaliation. If the warning is in line with the legal requirements, the employer cannot respond to the warning with e.g.: cancellation, suspension or dismissal. Exclusion, exclusion or change in duties or other reactions having the character of retaliation or penalty are also not lawful. The notification rules also contain a principle of shared burden of proof. Shared burden of proof means that if the employee e.g. if, after being notified, the employer is required to provide evidence that the termination was sufficiently justified in circumstances other than the alert. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, has developed a thorough guide to understanding the rules. In my opinion, the legal rules provide a good protection for workers who warn. In particular, the prohibition of retaliation and the burden of evidence significantly reinforces the situation of the alert, compared to the previous legal situation. Furthermore, I believe that the broad freedom of expression of workers in general provides a good protection against opinions that are not covered by the warning rules. As the representative himself points out, the rules have only been in force as of 1 January 2007, and have thus had a relatively short period of time. So we have limited experience with the rules. As my predecessor has previously warned Stortinget about, it will be natural to evaluate the legislation to see whether it works as intended and whether the companies follow up their responsibilities according to the law. I am now in the process of assessing the content of such an evaluation. We do not have a complete overview of the number of cases that have been dealt with in the courts. However, a review of cases that have been dealt with in justice since the entry into force of the new alert rules will, in my view, be a natural part of such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1909	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I can inform the Council of State that there has probably been one case since the warning paragraph was adopted in Stortinget – one case that has actually been through the judiciary. We know that there are many alerts who have tried to get their case up, but for economic reasons, you are put in a hopeless situation that alerts you because you become to a large extent the one who has to take the burden of proof. I also think it is special that the Council of State says that you have a good protection and that you are being well cared for. In any case, the alerts I have been in contact with often experience that when you meet the public, the big question is, What do you want with this, and why do you raise the matter? I think it is good that the Council of State says that she wants to initiate an evaluation. But I also want to challenge: Will the Council of State ensure that some of those who have got their case up in the judiciary – or who have tried – are included in such an evaluation, just to ensure a good evaluation and follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1920	I believe that the law we now have has made the situation for many alerts considerably better. It will be so important for us to know how the legislation and the law have worked in practice. That is precisely why I believe it is important that we now, relatively quickly after the law was implemented in Stortinget, also initiate an evaluation. A broad evaluation must include all those who are related to the law, including those who have tried their cases. Of course, I want to make sure that we have an evaluation that gives us enough knowledge to see if the legislation has worked that way when the Stortinget passed the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1925	I record that the Council of State is very clear that it has improved. One of those who have won a case that alerts – the only one who has won since the new law came into force – is sitting here. I don't think he experiences it in the same way as the Council of State – that this has become a better way, that you are actually being cared for as alerts. In the two cases of warning that have actually been won, they both say that if the law continues to be the way it is now, and you don't do anything about it, you might as well remove the entire alert paragraph. After the paragraph came, it has actually become worse to get through the legal system than before. So I hope the Council of State will answer that clearly. I would also like to ask the Council of State: will the Council of State now consider introducing some arrangements that would allow, if you are an alert and have a good case, you should have the opportunity to send your case to and get your case brought through the legal system, without risking having to end up in personal economic ruin? It is the everyday experience of many of the alerts. So because of the legal system and the payment system, you risk not getting your case up, and you're left as a debt slave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1932	I still believe that the law has contributed to the fact that we now have a legal status that means that the alerts have a protection that you did not have until you got the new law in place. So I believe that when we first go into an evaluation, we need to evaluate all aspects of what is fact, and also maybe see if we have payment arrangements that prevent people from bringing cases before the judiciary. The Ministry of Justice has arrangements that could be applied. However, when we undertake an evaluation to see if it is necessary to make changes, all aspects of the case will be important to be briefed. I don't think the direction that Bård Hoksrud suggests – that we should go back to the state as it was before the new law – will be the right one. But we should look through this to see if we can make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1942	I have had the pleasure of asking questions to the Council of State earlier today, and continue with the following questions: ‘The Court of Auditors’ report on the audit of the work and welfare budget for the financial year 2008 shows that the budget has had major management problems. The report tells of the failure of internal control procedures, the lack of follow-up of services and the large number of procedural gaps. On 1 March 2010, a redundancy allowance is introduced. What action does the Council of State take to ensure that this introduction is carried out in a sound manner, without prejudice to the legal certainty of users and the increased workload of staff in the establishment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1951	As the representative points out, the seat of labour and welfare has not had sufficient quality and effectiveness in the process during the implementation of the Nav reform. This is explained in St.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, and it has also been demonstrated in the Riksrevisions audit report for 2008. The introduction of redundancy payments and the right to work evaluation are important measures to ensure better follow-up of users in order to increase their work and activity. The introduction has already been postponed twice, only from 1 May to 1 October of this year, and then until 1 March 2010. Based on the major challenges that the agency is still facing, I have discussed with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare whether it is sound in the current situation to introduce redundancy payments in March 2010. The Directorate has informed me that in this case the introduction must be postponed for a whole year. I do not see this as relevant, as both users and employees are asking for the plan. In order to achieve the long-term objectives of the Nav reform, it is important that we get the action in place. However, I would like to stress that it is important to have a realistic picture of how demanding it will be to put in place the new follow-up regime. I refer in this connection to Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010, indicating that it will take some time after implementation before all the objectives of the conversion are achieved in a satisfactory manner. At the time of deployment, beneficiaries of the rehabilitation allowance, re-employment allowance or temporary unemployment benefit shall be given a decision on new benefits, work clearance allowance. This in itself is an extensive work. I have therefore assured myself that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare at the start-up stage will have the main focus on ensuring that all those who are entitled to it will be paid the redundancy allowance. I have also assured myself that the department will implement a comprehensive training scheme and other necessary measures to ensure a good transition to new legislation. I can assure you that the department will follow this work closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1964	The reversal of redundancy benefits will also give rise to the right to work performance assessment. That's about. 140 000 people, and so on, who currently have temporary benefits and who will be in the target group for this very purpose. I allow myself to ask: How long will a normal beneficiary of redundancy benefits have to charge before he is also satisfied with his right to work? And: Will the Council of State, as a possible measure, secure this part of the reform by allowing reintroduction companies to make more of the clarification in order to reduce the administrative pressure in the Nav conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1971	There is no doubt that a major reform is about to take place. Many people need to assess their working capacity, and fortunately, many Nav offices have already implemented the new methodology. It gives us a good basis to know the issues we had to face. Significant emphasis has also been placed on internal training in the establishment. When it comes to assessing the individual employee’s working capacity, there are many different services used today. It's public business, it's half-public business, and it's private actors that contribute to that job. I think we should keep doing that. Then it is important to me that the final decision that is taken should be taken in the welfare seat of Nav staff, so that we have certainty that the decisions will be made in the right way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1980	I thank the Council of State for the answers so far, but also allow me to ask for the following: Many of the recipients of the new benefit are concerned about developments in Nav. We have heard that in the hearing that the Committee has closed this week. Many of these may have been among the many thousands who have had to endure long time and waiting times in the department to find clarifications and measures. We all want the Nav reform, and in particular this part of the reform, to succeed, but we cannot bear the fact that users are further burdened in a system that would just prevent people from becoming caste balls. Why have not the Council of State and Government parties chosen to listen to the wishes and suggestions of their own Nav ombudsman in this particularly critical phase of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1989	It is essential, even in the Nav reform, that we take users on board. After all, the full job clearance assessment should be a close cooperation between the user and the Nav system to facilitate good action. With regard to the relationship that the representative Graham raises with regard to whether we are going to have our own representative in the scheme, there is a matter for consideration in the ministry, and I will come back to it when we have completed the relevant assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e1999	From the representative of Solvency Horne to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion: ‘The Court of Auditors has now presented a report showing that child protection falls into nine out of ten cases. In the report, the Riksrevision shows that the long treatment period in the counties has serious consequences for the children concerned. Is the Council of State in agreement with the criticism of the Riksrevision, and what will the Council of State do to correct this serious criticism and ensure that the time of proceedings is not exceeded?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e2007	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Case No. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-04.ana.ud60e2022	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
