ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e148	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e159	There is a broad political consensus in Norway that equal access to healthcare is an important objective of healthcare. The aim is an equivalent health provision for all, regardless of social and economic status, place of residence and background. In general, we can say that in many ways we may have achieved that goal the longest, but it has also cost. We are now in second place in the world regarding the use of money in the specialist health service, but not at the top in terms of results. The OECD has today presented a new report confirming this impression. We are still in second place in the world in terms of resource use, including the use of human resources, but on several key indicators only intermediate results are achieved in terms of the health supply of the population. Compared to most people, we have a good health system, where thousands of people get good help every single day, but there are some serious signs of danger, especially if we consider developments over the last few years based on the goal that I initially drew up. The waiting lists for our public hospitals have increased by 60,000 during the Stoltenberg government. The red-green try to minimize this by saying that it's not so important how many queues are in, but how long they're in line. The consequences should have disturbed them if they share the Right’s objective of an equivalent health offer to all. For this development, sales of private health insurance have increased by 130 pst. in recent years, and private hospitals have an equally high level of activity. But now the activity is largely related to patients who either pay for themselves, get the expenses covered by the insurance or get help for less priority tasks. So we're getting a two-part healthcare system: those with a good economy don't wait, while most people are in a line that just grows. Previous evaluations of the Norwegian health service have shown that our health care brand has just been that it has not made a difference between poor and rich. It's now gradually getting confused. However, our healthcare system has never received a nobility mark because one has had an equal priority for different patient groups. Drug addicts, mentally ill and chroniclers have lost in proportion to what we can call blue light medicine. The most serious thing is that in these areas developments are going in the wrong direction. If we evaluate it on the basis of waiting time and a breach of patient rights, it is the drug addicts and the mentally ill who have had the strongest negative development in recent years. They've gone from bad to worse. In the field of mental health protection for adults, the waiting time has increased by three days from the second tertiary in 2008 to the same period in 2009. Number of pending sessions with 11 pst. Almost one in five of the most ill adult psychiatric patients, those who are granted individual treatment deadlines, are experiencing a breach of this deadline. It is also confirmed in today's OECD report. The waiting time for interdisciplinary, specialised treatment for drug addicts has also increased by eight days in the same period, and the number of waiting has increased by 11 pst. Nearly one in four of the sickest patients who have received an individual deadline experience that they are not being treated by this deadline. The chroniclers are completely dependent on a good professional and accessible rehabilitation service. Health is also about living, not just about surviving. It's for good reason The Rehabilitation Action today is acting against the State budget. The government's response to broken promises is today to go away from the promises. Right Sonja Sjøli wants to get closer to this in his article. I started by drawing out a goal that I think there is a great deal of consensus about, and I also said that we have a health care system that works well for most people. But the right wants us to have an equivalent health offer. We're going to give priority to the patients that are falling out today, and we're going to make sure that we get more health for the heads that we're using. That's why Right goes in to change our health care system, to keep the central values of the health care system. Interaction reform will not be sufficient to meet these challenges. We also need to discuss how our specialist health service is organised and managed. The direction of the Right Policy is clearly expressed in our alternative budget, and can be summarised as follows: Point 1: We need to use the private forces to solve the community's problems. We therefore propose using the available capacity of the private hospitals to reduce the waiting time. We spend over $1.2 billion buying treatment for over 25,000 patients. At the same time, we transfer responsibility for the scheme Faster back to HELFO, so that we get a more efficient use of this money. Point 2: There must be a clear prioritisation of the treatment and rehabilitation of the patient groups that are currently losing out in the priority fight in healthcare businesses. This should be done both economically, through clear measurement figures and a separate escalation plan similar to that in psychiatry. In the 2010 budget, we're earmarking 585 million. NOK to this. Point 3: There is a need to improve the quality of healthcare services in order to improve the provision of services to users. In the financial position, we propose, together with the other opposition parties, a pool of skills to raise the salary of public sector educational groups. This must be done to ensure recruitment in the years ahead. In addition, the Right proposes an increase of 150 million in funding for development of skills and quality in the care sector. kr. Point 4: We need to start working on a smarter and more reasonable organization of our healthcare system now. Better coordination of support functions, neutral VAT and competition in non-medical services and the purchase of consultancy services must be ensured. The potential of these proposals is almost NOK 5 billion, and we're expecting 1/10> in 2010. But we also want to start work on completing the Executive Board of regional health companies. The main issue to be dealt with by the Committee during this session is the Government's proposal for an interaction reform. It was the Bondevik II government that started this work by putting down the so-called Wisløff committee, which made its recommendation just before the government change. Unfortunately, this remained in a drawer until the last Minister of Health, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, brought it up again. Now we have a proposal for reform at Stortinget's table, and the same Wislöff is back in the department to lead the work on implementing the reform. The right is in line with the reform's intention to achieve a better interaction in our healthcare system. It is absolutely necessary to build healthcare in municipalities. Today, we have one for top-heavy healthcare in Norway, where specialist health services take too much of a share in relation to community health services. We therefore welcome the fact that the new Minister of Health has both been open to a broad agreement in the United Kingdom on health reform and has also said that what is stated in the Communication is not built in stone. Both conditions are essential for a broad political settlement. A settlement does not involve the opposition joining the government's proposal, but rather the opposition being involved in influencing what is going to happen. That is what we believe will be positive for a reform that will take several major periods of time and will affect large parts of our society. Municipalities run by parties other than government parties shall participate enthusiastically in this process. There are a number of major challenges related to some of what has been proposed, particularly in relation to the economic incentives, patients' rights and the role of doctors. We look forward to being in close dialogue with the government parties to make a reform even better than it was as a government proposal. We also believe that it makes sense to start with the good measures already. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Right has proposed 300 million. kr for interaction measures that we can start with now, because there are many good suggestions in the municipalities already. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in its work on the budget – it has been a good process. I will end by addressing the proposal that the Right Party is promoting alone, and those that we are involved in promoting in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e203	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e208	I would like to begin by thanking the Chairman of the Committee for managing the work on the budget of the Committee in an excellent way. In the position of the Social Committee on Health Enterprises Act in 2001, the Right comments: ‘These members agree that the State acquires in the first instance the ownership of all public hospitals.’ And on the other hand, ‘Rights believe that at a later stage it should be possible to open up a more varied ownership with a larger element of private owned hospitals.’ How concrete does the Right today want to be in terms of a private hospital policy? Is it supposed to be a private hospital in every town? Does the Right believe that all hospitals can be privatized, including university hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e225	Many waters have been clean in rivers since 2001. One thing that has happened since 2001 is that the Right has been in government, and the Right has had the Minister of Health. In this situation, good private health services were set up, hospitals that were approved because they satisfied the professional requirements we make for hospitals. But no public hospitals were privatized. In the right, there is no basis for privatising public hospitals. Public hospitals will operate well, be effective, and will be the main focus of healthcare provision in Norway in the years to come. However, it will be in the patient's interest that good private alternatives are also established, not least in order to gain competition against quality and diversity so that those who run the healthcare system can also see that there are other ways to solve these problems, for the benefit of the patient. This means that the Right is concerned about the one-way policy currently being pursued, because as patients, we are missing out on the possibility of choosing private alternatives when one is dissatisfied with the public option or the public queues become too long. But it also removes the possibility for health care managers to have someone to compare the operation of the public health system. In this way, we lose a lot, and that is perhaps one of the reasons Norway has an expensive healthcare system with mediocre results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e234	In the context of the draft budget, proposals have been made from the opposition to terminate the regional organisation of specialist health services, to put regional health establishments down and to replace them with a central hospital directorate. It is, in fact, a radical proposal to centralise specialist health services. The question to the Right is: does not Höie and Right see that this will create greater distances between the population and those who will make decisions, that this will lead to a new large hospital/health bureaucracy in Oslo, and that this can also mean, over time, a centralisation of the health service, and in particular a centralisation of the specialist healthcare service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e241	I would first like to correct a manifest misunderstanding: the right does not agree with any proposal to set up a national directorate to manage the hospitals. It is neither in the Right Program nor in the comments on which the Right is included. I'm surprised this line comes from SV. I have understood that there was only one party that made choices to defend regional health companies, and that was the Workers' Party. I understand that neither the SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party or the Left in their programmes have support for the regional health companies, so in reality, the SV here is a hostage to the organisation of the health services that that party does not support either. Regional health companies have been constructing a directorial field that costs us millions of dollars, but which produces very little results. We believe that both power and money should be moved to local health businesses, close to the patient, close to those working in health care, and then Stortinget will be able to steer national health policies with good organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e250	The right and the representative Höie are busy with the increased waiting times, and I thought that was good. I understand that they believe that the point one of this work is to use the free capacity of the private health service. In the election campaign I was visiting many hospitals, and everyone asked for more tasks. My question to the representative Höie is: is it so that the Right is against one in the work of reducing waiting lists first exploiting the available capacity of the public health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e257	It is the approach that the Government has tried to use for four years, which has resulted in a 60,000 increase in waiting lists and an increase in waiting times for the vast majority of patient groups. Then it might be time to leave that approach. I think that first there must be a more open competition, where public hospitals, too, of course, should have the opportunity to exploit their available capacity, but also in competition with private hospitals. With a policy where one tries to protect the public hospitals and say that they should use their capacity first, before one takes up the private – as the Center Party has called for here, and as the Government has conducted as a policy in the last four years – one feels that it is the patient who becomes the loser, while one has not particularly achieved a better use of the resources in the public hospitals. On the contrary, one spends more and more money, while one gets mediocre results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e268	First of all, I would like to agree with the representative of Health that we have had a good process in the committee – effectively and in a good tone. This promises good for the further work of the Committee. Good health is the basis for a good life and a productive society. We're going to do a public health job that helps people get as many years of good health as possible. Health services should be characterised by high quality and effective treatment for the different patient groups. We need to work systematically to reduce the large differences in health that currently exist between different groups of the population. An equivalent health offer is essential for us. The country and the municipalities will continue to give care services a high priority in order to ensure the highest possible level of equality and good services for the population. Dignity, good interaction, influence and choice of users shall characterise the care services. Anyone who needs a nursing home or a nursing home occupied by a lucky day shall receive it. The Ministry of Health and Health budget for 2010 amounts to DKK 128.7 billion. This represents a real increase of DKK 2 billion compared to the current budget in 2009 — and disregarding the one-off allocation for this year relating to the transfer of health-care enterprises' operating credits in private banks to operating credits in the country. This is a lot of money, but important money. All the while, we need to focus on how we can get the most out of all the resources, primarily in terms of our health, but also because in the years to come, we have to take measures to limit cost growth in different areas of society. We need a shift in health policy based on the Interaction Reform, which means increasing efforts to prevent and significantly strengthen municipal services. I look forward to a thorough and good treatment of this big message here in Stortinget, where, on the part of the government parties, we would like to repeat our invitation to broad political cooperation. 273 million. In the draft budget, kr is set aside as a pre-flavour for the reform, of which 230 million. The aim is to strengthen the prevention of health work in municipalities. I assume that the municipalities spend the money on targeted, good measures, in accordance with their purpose. The interaction reform will help make things smarter. And the smartest solutions we often get in close cooperation with the employees. This cooperation will also be very important to reduce sick leave and disability in the health and care sectors. As you know, the government has now reduced a wide-ranging selection to address these challenges, and what needs to be done. This budget proposal strengthens the hospital economy by DKK 1.45 billion in addition to compensation for wage and price growth. Eight hundred and eighty-five million. of this goes to increased patient treatment. Thus, the allocation to regional health businesses, i.e. patient treatment, increased by DKK 8.3 billion from 2005 to 2010. It's a significant reinforcement. In addition, SEK 4.9 billion is provided in increased appropriations to cover pension costs. That should also be mentioned. In 2008, it was treated approximately. 100000 more patients than in 2005. More than 423,000 outpatient consultations. Nevertheless, too many people have to wait too long for diagnosis and treatment. Efforts to reduce waiting lists must be of very high priority and high priority in the ministry. It's important to notice that over 80 pst. those awaiting treatment are waiting for an out-of-patient investigation. To this end, the focus needs to be focused to a large extent on strengthening the efforts of health businesses to reduce waiting times. Psychological problems and drug abuse contribute to poorer quality of life for too many people and major negative impacts on society. Responding to mental health and drug problems has increased over several years, and priority needs to be given to these areas. In the drug field, for example, a new escalation plan may occur. Since 2005, appropriations for the drug field have increased by 835 million. kr. For 2010, the increase amounts to a total of 150 million. kr. Many members of the Health and Welfare Committee recently met with drug users who sell the newspaper = Oslo. It made a strong impression on me. It underlines, inter alia: the importance of well-functioning after-sales protection. Many drug users have a poor network outside the drug setting, and after detoxification, unfortunately, the route is too short to return to the drug setting. We have to make sure that there is a solid and worthwhile offer for these people after the end of treatment, so that they get follow-up and help to establish a good life without drugs. At the same time, in the drug field as elsewhere, it is so incredibly important to bet on prevention on a broad front. In ten years we have raised the level of operation by approx. NOK 6.4 billion. Since 2005, appropriations for mental health protection have increased by approximately DKK 2.5 billion when we see municipal services and specialist health services combined. General growth in patient treatment appropriations is also reported to be positive. It can also be added that it is invested for 9.2 billion kroner in the period in this field. In the draft budget, the 2015 care plan is followed up by 320 million. kr in 2010. By the end of 2008, there were over 14,000 more annual municipal health services than in 2005. Every year's work comes along well. We will contribute to the municipalities with free revenues and grant schemes, so that municipalities can put in place the necessary hands and buildings – in line with the objectives of the care plan. The Husbank commitment framework related to the construction and modernisation of hospital and nursing homes will be extended if the application entry is made. From 2008 to 2010, there will be 6 000 commitments as State investment grants with the government budget line. We need to ensure a good rehabilitation and habilitation offer throughout the country. Prevention, treatment and rehabilitation must be seen in the context. Rehabilitation is an important part of the whole treatment chain, and we need to have good and varied services in rehabilitation and rehabilitation institutions, in our hospitals and not least in the community health service, as the National Strategy of the Government also states. Cooperation is very important in order to provide a good and comprehensive service to users, including for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation field. A unanimous committee also emphasises that, in the context of the consideration of the cooperation reform, the focus must be on financing rehabilitation services in order to maximise the continuity of the treatment process. Regional health enterprises have been provided with significant funds, including: to purchase services from private rehabilitation and training institutions. These institutions form an important part of the provision of health care. Therefore, health establishments must conclude contracts of such duration that these institutions have the predictability necessary to ensure the best possible quality of offers. Private actors are making a living and are doing a good job in many areas of health. Private establishments and contract specialists are useful partners for public health. Regional health businesses also have the opportunity to extend the use of private actors, including those involved in health care. to reduce the waiting time for diagnosis and treatment. However, first of all, the availability of public health facilities must be exploited, and the scope of private contracts must not undermine the patient base, especially in view of the small hospitals, which are most vulnerable in this way. In the government platform, we say that hospitals owned and operated by non-governmental organisations should be ensured good agreements with the public. The celebration clinic is an important private offer for heart disease. But a lot has changed since the clinic was established. At that time, there was little capacity in heart surgery. Now the capacity is good, the waiting time is relatively short and the need for operations is smaller. Therefore, the clinic carries out a significant conversion. In this situation, the State must contribute in such a way that the Feiring Clinic also has the necessary predictability in the future. First, the government must ensure that the clinic also has sustainable agreements with regional health businesses in 2010. Otherwise, I would like to point out that, in a written reply in October, she has notified me that she will return to Stortinget with her assessments in the matter. Automatically sent free cards when self-interest has been reached and free health services for young people up to the age of 16 are two very happy and good proposals in the submitted budget. I am also very pleased that an overall committee is clearly aware that the hearing aid system will continue, which still means project support from the state. All the favors of the volunteers for the efforts they make! We spend a lot of money on health in Norway. We're among the countries in the world that use the most. Very much is good – and it is important not to forget that. But much can and should be better – and help people to live good and healthy lives. This budget provides a good basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e324	In our work on this budget, we have had nearly 70 teams and organisations to consult. Much useful, serious and not least necessary information has moved to us, which the Progress Party has actively used in its design of this budget. The progress party has seen that it has been necessary to give extra money on several chapters and items based on this information. I note that in this context, the representatives of the government parties must vote as they are told, so that the current budget does not bear the mark of the implementation of a massive consultation. Do the representatives of the Workers' Party feel that they have listened to the recordings that have been made and are carrying out an important and meaningful job for their voters in this budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e331	I am impressed by what the organisations present to us, both verbally and in writing. That gives us very useful information. It gives us many good ideas that we are taking with us on board in our work on future budgets. We've also shown that we've listened, through the settings that are now here. An example I mentioned in my article, namely the hearing aid, which we agree to continue. We have also taken other important signals with us, and we want great benefit from it in the further work in our fraction – in the fraction of the government parties – and in the committee. So it has certainly been worth the effort of the many who have been in the consultation of the Health and Care Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e336	On the right, the Government agrees that the offer of rehabilitation and rehabilitation is deficient. It affects disabled children and their families, it affects heart patients who don't get training, and it affects muscular and skeletal disease, where only 10 pst. receive the offer they need. Investing in rehabilitation will give many people a new opportunity to master everyday life and work. It is an investment in better quality of life and it will reduce the need for care and social security benefits. In addition, it will help more people to get to work and reduce sick leave. The right has twice proposed a stepping-up plan for rehabilitation in our alternative budgets, but the government parties have voted it down. In the previous period, there was a cross-political agreement to invest in rehabilitation, but the government has not followed up in practice. Now the red-greens go away from their promise of a bet, despite the fact that they feel there is a need for a strong effort to reduce sick leave. And my question is, why does the Workers' Party leave its promises and ambitions about a strong commitment to rehabilitation when the need is so great?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e343	We red-green are very concerned that we should have a good habilitation and rehabilitation offer. That is why we are also going to lift it more strongly into the cooperation reform when it starts. The bet, or the number of stays, has been increased by 18 pst. since 2005. We're going to spend about 119 million dollars. NOK more on purchases in private institutions. So it's that rehabilitation is a lot more than private institutions, but we're going to make sure that they too get more predictability through longer contracts, which I was up to. But it is also very important what is done by efforts in municipalities and hospitals. So I want to say one thing: we're concerned with rehabilitation, but we're not doing it like Right – taking the money from other patient treatment. The right is, of course, going against general growth in patient treatment. We will ensure both good rehabilitation and cut the waiting time – as opposed to what the Right contributes through its budget-related approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e350	It sounds very nice when the representative Hagebakken boasts of rehabilitation, which is going to be better. But in one area, the budget is getting worse. It's 35 million. kr, which has today come from popular concern, for reimbursement of physiotherapists in outpatient clinics. This goes for example: ed Physiotherapy. In particular, there is a need for bass bed treatment and training for surgical patients and others in need of rehabilitation. Martina Hansen's Hospital says they got 1.7 million. NOK 2008 - they will receive NOK 64,000 next year. The deacon home got 3.5 million. NOK 2008 – they are now notifying that they will receive NOK 500000 next year. This is dramatic. Instead of going directly to hospitals, this money will be placed in the basic allocation of regional health enterprises, and the money will not be made available. Either you have a bass bed, whether you have a physiotherapist or not, it's going to crack out, after a whole... [[President clubs]] What does the representative think about prioritising rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e357	Firstly, I simply expect health regions to continue the necessary and proper treatment provision. If hot water treatment is positive – and there are many reasons to believe that it does – under the direction of a physiotherapist, I would think that health regions will make sure that it continues. The fact that we're concerned about this at Stortinget is a signal to the health regions. This is not a saving measure, but this is a manual scheme that we have now included in the framework. That means we're going from different distributions to more evenly distributed. That means that someone gets a challenge to figure out some money. I hope they will find that money so that it can ensure good offers. I agree with the representative, Laila Davøy, that this is important, and I trust that this will continue to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e362	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e365	When the Stortinge adopts the state budget for next year, it is a budget with great paradoxes. It's a budget that spends more oil money than ever. However, while spending a lot of money on health and care in 2010, the challenges in the health and care sector in many areas will increase next year if the Government’s draft budget is adopted. Increased health cows, longer waiting times, more drug users in line and cut the offer of rehabilitation have unfortunately been a trend we have seen in recent years. It will continue next year, if this will not make any decisive changes in today's budget. Let me start with a field that has come too far at the back of the red-green line: rehabilitation and habilitation. Despite the fact that a total increase has repeatedly said that this should be ‘the next major field of action in the health sector’, we see that reality is quite different. Investing in rehabilitation and rehabilitation should be a matter of course, especially in one of the world’s richest countries – both because it would provide a good socio-economic approach: more return to work, more return to value-creating activities, more return to social activities and participation in the society in which you live, and, not least, more people who feel that they contribute and through it get a worthwhile and good everyday life. Let me say it as clearly as it is possible to say it: the Advance Party will not accept that the rehabilitation field will be a balancing post in the Norwegian health and care services. We – and not least they – have waited long enough. It's time for action. The 2010 Alternative State Budget of the Progress Party has a large-scale commitment to rehabilitation, without entailing cuts in hospital budgets through earmarking. In my view, there is no reason to reduce other hospital services, even if you want to strengthen rehabilitation. This means that the Progress Party is the party that spends the most money on health and care also in 2010, despite the fact that we spend the total amount of less oil money than the Government's proposal. It is necessary to change the course of Norwegian health policy. We need to move from a policy that increases health cows, which increases their proportions, which fragmentations responsibility for different services and complicates and trains Norwegian citizens' needs for fast, good and efficient health and care services. Why is it reasonable to have people going on sick pay in months after month, rather than using the available capacity of private and non-profit actors? It's totally incomprehensible to me. Rapid and good help will be a significant saving factor related to the expenditure on social security and health money budgets. The Progress Party therefore provides in its alternative budget for the use of all available capacity, so that we get patients healthy and fast as early as possible. The ideological epiphyses of the red-green government are simply the reason that patients have to wait in longer and longer health cows. This has to end. Of course, one should be careful to characterise political opponents and the effects of their political choices. However, I would like to point out that now we have over 4,500 drug users waiting for help, while there is a large amount of available capacity at private and non-profit drug institutions. Making use of this capacity at the same time as enabling municipalities to offer the most necessary after-sales services will save lives. I am therefore proud that the Progress Party is the party that takes the weakest of the weakest, those who sit at the bottom of the table, really seriously. The Progress Party's alternative state budget provides the basis for a stepping-up plan within the drug field. I hope that the government now sees the need for a power cut in this field, which the minister also mentioned in the newspaper today. The Party of Progress is of the opinion that health and care services should be equally accessible to all, irrespective of income and wealth. It is therefore strange to see a trend in which more and more people buy healthcare for their own money, whether through private health insurance or by other means. The government’s policies have therefore led to an increase in social health inequalities, and there is a trend that needs to be reversed. The annual increase in self-interest must be stopped in order to reduce the tax on disease. We need to change the funding system for health and care services, so that individual needs trigger funding – and not the annual budgets of municipalities and hospitals. The Progress Party therefore proposes to equalise private and ideal providers, while increasing the ISF share to 60 pst. in 2010. This will ensure that far more patients are treated. The government's medicine has not worked in the last four years, and it is therefore regrettable to see that there is a continuation of a policy that has led Health Norway in the wrong direction in many areas. The 2010 Advance Party's alternative state budget is the start of a necessary reverse operation for Health-Norway, where the patient is put in focus and hospitals are able to respond better to the needs of the population. The Progress Party budget will ensure increased patient treatment, with a minimum of 50,000 more than the Government's budget. The government's carnage of local hospitals will cease, and social health differences will decrease. Rest care will have a significant boost, which can help save lives, family relationships and human fortunes. The rehabilitation field receives the necessary promise that it has been promised this year after year, and the care of the elderly is lifted, so that the sun can again begin to shine for the elderly caregivers in Norwegian municipalities. There is an alternative to health cows, an alternative to increased waiting times, to unworthy elderly care and care. There is an alternative to cutting psychiatry and lack of investment in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. There is an alternative that focuses much more on individual needs. This option is called the Progress Party. All other alternatives have been tried and therefore only the Progress Party can be said to be a real alternative to health policy. It would not be appropriate for the Progress Party to pursue an unsocial health and care policy, where it is the individual wallet that is increasingly applicable to the health services received in Norway. If, or when, you get a blue majority in Norway in 2013, I can guarantee the voters that the Progress Party will not negotiate an equivalent and social health and care offer. The Progress Party is the guarantor of a worthy care for the elderly and a necessary, rights-based health policy that focuses on individual needs – a system that sees the individual, not just the system. At the end of the day, I will be allowed to comment on the proposals proposed or included by the Progress Party and referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e395	The representative has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e401	The continuing unbridled Progress Party therefore proposes to put down regional health businesses and replace them with a state hospital directorate, the directorate that the most tried-out Right does not want. Is the representative Olsen concerned about losing knowledge of regional conditions and needs when deciding which health services to provide? Isn't the Progress Party concerned about what it means for hospitals and patient services in the country if all decisions are to be centralised away from the regions? The elected members of the board of directors who are now in the majority of health companies will probably be gone. Doesn't that party worry either? And – what about local interaction when the directorate takes over?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e406	Let me first be allowed to confirm that yes, the Progress Party is the untapped option, at least in this room and in governing Norway. However, we have managed many Norwegian municipalities – and with great luck – including the municipality I have run. I also want to say that my perception of today's healthcare system is not that there is little bureaucracy, few directors, few financial managers, little consulting – or that today's organisation with regional health companies should be preferable to having a uniform management of Norwegian hospitals, where at the same time we give a real power to the individual patient by having rights-driven legislation that gives individual rights to the hospital, no matter what the directors of hospitals may think. I have faith in this, and I am absolutely sure that the voters too will have it at the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e413	The representative Olsen and the Progress Party likes to call themselves the defender of the little man, also in the health service. In the health care system, the little man is often the chronicle — the heavy rubric or the heavy psychiatric patient with complex diagnosis and unpredictable treatment. However, all parties, except the Advance Party, seem to agree that unit price financing is not a suitable means of funding for caring for this patient group – because unit price is about the most profitable patients. Then these types of patients are often deprioritised. All parties agree. Even under the previous Bondevik government, the then Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen helped to reduce the share of the price to 40 pst. It does not want the Progress Party, the Progress Party will primarily have 100 pst. unit-price financing. What is it that the Progress Party has realized about this that not all the other parties have understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e420	It is true that not all parties agree with the Progress Party on a 100 pst. unit-price financing. The parties that agree on this are the parties that have managed Health-Norway and Norway in recent years, where health cows are getting longer and longer, where more people are in line, whether it is for drug treatment, psychiatric treatment or regular hospital treatment, where rehabilitation is not related, and aftercare is not present. There is a lot of disagreement between these parties with the Progress Party. I fully believe that a single price financing will be the real solution to this, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e425	The representative Olsen meiner Progress Party is the party for the weakest of the weakest and those who sit at the bottom of the table – and the representative Olsen believes that our budget contains great paradox. Is it not the greatest paradox that the Progress Party is in order to reduce the number of sick cows and to improve the quality of care, but at the same time is in favour of comments from all the other parties in the Committee, namely that 'non-alcoholic zones should be sought in particular where children are present', and that the alcohol policy should be firm? Is this not the opposite of the social health policy that the representative Olsen guarantees that the Progress Party will lead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e430	The Progress Party has, in its own comments, expressed the primary policy of the Progress Party and, where it has been natural, has joined the majority in majority comments. I believe that the Progress Party's alternative state budget and the comments we have are very well connected and show a whole that would actually have been a good thing for those sitting at the bottom of the table, the weakest of the weakest, those who today experience standing in long health cows, in long treatment queues or waiting for after protection, those who come out of prison with just a carrier bag and discover that they have no place to live, have nothing to go to or anything valuable to do with. I believe that the policy of the Progress Party is excellent and closely related. I have also shown that in our remarks, not least in the proposals we have for appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e437	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e440	For the SV and the Government, it is essential to ensure a strong and well-developed public sector, a welfare state and a health care system that takes responsibility for all citizens regardless of their place of residence and the size of the wallet – a health care system where we pay according to our ability. Knowing that you are not left alone or just left to the family if things go wrong gives you security. The budget we are discussing today is NOK 128.7 billion – a strengthening of the hospital economy by DKK 1.45 billion. The specialist health service in isolation has a budget of nearly DKK 100 billion. It's a double in the last ten years. In the coming years, the focus on health policy will be on primary health care, health promotion and prevention. I am not saying that we should not bet on the specialist health service – because of course we should, and we do – but we also have to make sure that we spend the money correctly, in a holistic and long-term perspective. Over 70 pst. of all chronic disorders currently treated in hospitals are life-style related. These include diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart and heart disease, drug problems and mental disorders. If we increase efforts vigorously at an early stage, the need for hospitalisation will be reduced. Canada is one of the countries in the world that have focused on prevention and health promotion over a 30-year period. They have gone from lying at the bottom of the Western world in terms of the health status of the population to being on top now. Age of life for women and men is higher in Canada than in Norway. It is this health policy priority that forms the basis of the Cooperation Reform. Interaction reform is about solving problems while they are small. Preventing disease in advance, rather than repairing after-effects, shall be worthwhile. And it's not least about rehabilitation. Efforts to build up patients after treatment and rehabilitation prevent cleaning. The 2010 budget therefore proposes a total of 240 million. kr for preventive health services in municipalities. It's not enough, but it's a start. One of the most important measures to be strengthened is lowthreshold services such as health centres and, in particular, school health services. School health services will be a low-threshold service for children and young people with mental health problems and/or other complex problems. The objective is a lowthreshold service that contributes to prevention and early intervention at the right level. Another important measure is to build the competence of prevention health services in municipalities, such as: in nutrition, social medicine, environmental health protection, mental health work and physical activity. I have registered that in some municipalities are not the funds – the 240 million. kr – proposed use for the purpose described here. I want to encourage the Council of State to follow this up, so that the 240 million. kr entered into the framework of the municipalities is used for that purpose. I would also like to highlight another important measure proposed in the budget, namely free healthcare for children and young people up to 16 years of age. From 1 January, we raise the age limit for free healthcare under self-employment 1 from 12 to 16 years. The proposal will make it easier for young people in this age group to seek medical advice, for example: for psychiatric conditions, suspicion of sexually transmitted diseases, questions of prevention, unwanted pregnancy, etc. The budget proposes 150 million. kr to the escalating plan. With this, the drug field is increased by 835 million. kr for the period 2006-2010. One of the problems with current drug treatment is a lack of interaction between different agencies. Through the Interaction Reform, we are working to ensure a comprehensive, coherent treatment chain both through changes in funding systems and legislation. Drug-free treatment needs to be ensured in a variety of settings. The LAR must reduce the waiting time for medically assisted rehabilitation. People in active intoxication also need to be guaranteed dignity and help, for example: through lowthreshold services, work, activities, free legal assistance and other harm-reduction measures. Injecting rooms are considered to be an important option to reduce overdose deaths and as part of the rehabilitation of drug addicts. I am therefore pleased that the red-green government in its political platform has been quite clear that the drug field needs to be further strengthened in the coming years, for example. through a new escalation plan. A 2004 Fafo report shows that about 60 pst. Of the prisoners in Norwegian prisons, there are significant drug problems often combined with drugrelated crime, and many are repeaters. It is important for the fight against crime and drug dependence that they receive detoxification, treatment and rehabilitation during the settlement process. Rusmeststring units are currently available in nine prisons, and SV is pleased that there are now to be added to two new substance retention units in 2010. A number of people have been treated, the operating framework in the period has increased by NOK 6.4 billion, and the investment is NOK 9.2 billion. But the number of people in need of help has increased. There is still a need for increased investment, and an activity growth has been proposed for the entire specialist healthcare service of about 1.3 pst. On the part of the Grand Duchy and the Government, it has been a clear message to health professionals that they should give priority to the growth of mental health and drug treatment activities higher than in somatic and other health services, both through mission documents and what is here in the State budget. I look with concern at the signals that come from some municipalities and some parts of the specialist health service about cut in the offers. I assume that the Council of State is actively following up on health businesses, so that the priorities of the Storing and Government in relation to psychiatry and drug abuse are followed up. In addition to reduced self-esteem, poor dental health can lead to other serious health problems if not addressed. I am pleased that in the government platform it is underlined that the Government aims to gradually take greater responsibility for the public in the dental field, and will investigate different models with a view to establishing a ceiling on how much each individual should pay for the costs of necessary dental treatment. We're looking at this investigation in SV up until now. There are large geographical differences in the provision of public dentistry. The challenges related to accessibility are mainly confined to those areas or districts where public dentistry positions are unoccupied over a long period of time. There is also evidence that the dental health of children and young people is poorer in areas with unoccupied jobs and with high permeability. I am pleased that the Government in the dental report has underlined that the possibility of taking all or part of specialist training decentralised in paid educational positions will be an important tool to contribute to a better geographical distribution of specialists. In the end, I cannot avoid warning against the opposition's proposal to wind up the regional organisation of the specialist health service to centralize the management of a state hospital directorate in Oslo. It is rightly said by some parties that it should not be a hospital directorate, but what you call it is indifferent – it will be built up by a large state hospital administration in the capital. We find it strange that these parties want a more top-notch and bureaucratic system where important decisions are moved further away from those they concern. Substantial criticism of healthcare companies has been that the distance between patients and decision-makers is too great. This will make the distance even larger. We believe that reorganising the specialist health service as proposed here, by eliminating the regional level, will result in more centralisation — more centralisation of the hospital service, of the health service, in the years to come, by defusing it regionally and making it all a national level. That could be the consequence of the proposed change. I recommend on the strongest budget that has now been presented. It goes on a line that's been there for the entire period that we've been behind. There is an increase in all the budgetary frameworks of the specialist health service. We do not solve all the problems with this budget, but it points forward in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e485	Recently, newspapers have written a lot about waiting lists. I have received many enquiries about this myself. One who waits received a letter in the post office where, among other things, stand: ‘Our agreement with regional health companies has a ceiling on the number of studies that we are allowed to do on public account. [[...]] We are required to distribute these studies throughout the year. Unfortunately, this leads to waiting time. The restriction means that we have free capacity and can set aside time for private patients.» He was told that if she was willing to pay NOK 1900 for this investigation, she could get an hour immediately. Is SV proud of this two-part Health Norway they have been helping to create in recent years, by buying out those who have money in order not to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e497	We don't want to help create a two-part healthcare system. On the contrary, unlike the Progress Party, we strongly believe that a public health system across the country is the only way to secure itself against a two-part healthcare system. Then I am very happy that we in the budget underline that we should focus on waiting lists. They have to go down. Governments have already taken active action, and it is very important to be aware that waiting lists are not long in all areas. We don't have waiting lists in some places, for example. in the case of cardiovascular diseases. Elsewhere we have too long waiting lists. This will be taken up and followed up in the context of this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e505	SV is opposed to commercial healthcare, and it has also been implemented in the Soria Moria Declaration. One consequence of this is that healthcare companies have been clearly informed to limit the use of private services such as Capio, a centre for eating disorders in Fredrikstad. Patients at the centre have been through many public offers without getting the treatment they need. What patients need is the right to choose Capio in line with public health services. They do not have that possibility today because the offer is not covered by the right to free hospital choice. The right has proposed a change in the law aimed at allowing Capio to accept offers as a hospital and thus be covered by the right to free hospital choice. It makes no sense for the government to refuse to approve Capio's offer to young people with serious eating disorders, while approving a hospital for top athletes. This case is the actual litmus test of whether the government puts the patients or the ideology first. Does the SV agree with the Right that patients with severe eating disorders must have the right to free hospital choice in line with other patients, including having the opportunity to use Capio?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e516	First, I would like to stress that SV is not opposed to private offers in the healthcare sector. A large part of the health care system is currently privately operated, for example. the primary health service and the deputies. So that's not the right picture. We spend NOK 2 billion on the purchase of private services. We haven't gone against that. We believe that a public health service is the best guarantor to ensure equal treatment and a decentralised healthcare system. Of course we are. As far as the special institution Capio is concerned, I cannot respond specifically to what is the reason why it is not approved, but we are definitely clear that people with eating disorders should be entitled to equal treatment with patients with other diseases entitled to treatment and free hospital choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e525	In these days, many of the ideal institutions, not least in the Health South-East area, are in doubt. The last thing I heard the other day was that now you wanted to make two-year contracts. It is therefore up to regional health companies to assess whether or not to grant exemptions in so far as they can. This is a big problem. The Christian People's Party has wanted a stronger exception than what you operate with today. In the last four years, the Stoltenberg government has promised, among others. The Swedish Council of State to come back to this room with a case about this. It was hard to assess, they spent four years and never came back. The fact that regional health businesses can actually make a decision on exemptions or not, how does the government statement argue that if regional health businesses can say yes or no, even accept that they are being laid down, they will use the non-profit institutions more?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e534	Tenders and short invitations to tender with private operators, particularly in the field of drugs and rehabilitation, have been discussed in particular in the budget. There is a broad consensus in the committee that as it has been in some places, it is not lucky. We should go in and inform health establishments that there should be sufficient tendering periods where appropriate. As it has been, we're not satisfied with it. So that's where we've given clear leadership. They do an important job for the health service, and it is important to facilitate their getting good and predictable framework conditions. There I fully agree with Laila Bavøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e544	In Per Fugelli and Benedicte Ingstad’s book ‘Health in Norwegian’, the founder of social medicine, Rudolf Virchow, is quoted. 150 years ago he said the following: ‘Politics are nothing but medicine in general.’ By doing so, he meant that politics is to divide living conditions and values — and thus health conditions — between groups in society. When local, national and global political authorities distribute living conditions such as income, work, education, housing, food and the environment, they at the same time allocate framework conditions for health. A classic example of policy health is the decline in mortality due to a number of infectious diseases in the previous hundred years. This decrease has been detected to a small extent as a result of medical innovations, such as vaccinations and antibiotics, on their own. First, the decline in the number of deaths comes from economic progress combined with social and hygienic improvements, such as better nutrition, better housing, better education, better employment, better water supply, better renovation, etc. Aaron Wildavsky has formulated the 10-90 rule in which he claims that the health services have 10 pst. and policy, economics and the environment 90 pst. impact on the health status of the population. This government and its policies in areas other than health mean a great deal to the future health status of its citizens. A government which clearly says it will give priority to the community and Community solutions is then a good starting point. That's an e.g. children free fruit and green in the school are the health benefits. When acute asthma is the cause of 20 pst. The importance of addressing the challenges related to infrastructure and indoor climate in schools and kindergartens is demonstrated by the admissions of children to hospitals. The fact that the national transport plan has a commitment to the construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads and the creation of safe schooling could in the long run mean much to the public. If we are to improve the health status of the population, action and priorities in the health budget or in health services alone are not useful. Reducing economic differences in the population, fighting poverty and providing fundamental economic security to all contributing to better health. So we have to think about public health in all areas of politics and society. Norway is now a country with a well-developed health system. Our generation has benefited from a completely different health supply than our parental regeneration. Basic health services that we take for granted today are far from self-evident in many other countries around the world. For example, too many women in the world. feeding is one of the most dangerous things you can do. The infant mortality rate is high, and one has little access to common vaccines that can prevent disease. In Norway, the majority of the population today have good health and good living conditions. Most populations have experienced positive developments in the most important areas of life over the past 25 years. There's a lot of positive happening. This can be seen, among other things. by increasing the average life expectancy since the 1950s by ten years, to 80 years for women and men as a whole. We have had high ambitions and have a health care service that, after all, is among the best in the world. Nevertheless, there are a number of gaps and challenges in a range of areas. The social health differences — i.e. differences arising from categories of education, employment and income in the population — are still significant in Norway. In my view, this is today our most important health policy challenge. Today, men with youth education have the prospect of living about five years shorter than men with university education. We can't accept this. We also have major social health differences when it comes to risk factors for disease development, such as diet and physical activity. In order to reduce social health inequalities, we need to focus on prevention in a broad sense. I think we must give priority to prevention among children and young people. Demographic and epidemiological developments in Norway, as in other Western European countries, are changing considerably. These developments present challenges that could threaten the viability of society and must be met by far-reaching and long-term measures. It will require both more efficient operation of the health and care sector in Norway and new and more demanding priority decisions. We would like, among other things: a few more older. By 2050, the number of people over 67 will be more than doubled. We are also facing major changes in the image of people's disease. There will be more chronic and more complex disease images. Cols, diabetes, dementia, obesity, cancer and mental disorders are diseases of strong growth and require more interaction in health services. Obesity and obesity development will require systematic prevention efforts. On the other hand, malnutrition is a challenge for patients in hospitals and in hospitals. Also among home builders over 75 years of age, it is estimated that 10 pst. suffer from or are at risk of developing faulty or undernourishment. In St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Interaction Reform, the Government proposes a commitment to the prevention of health services in municipalities and better interaction. The 2010 budget has proposed 273 million. kr for preventive health services. That's the right priority. In the last 12 years, the cost of the specialist services has doubled. Such growth could not continue. Health services have focused too much on acute and on treating diseases and latecomplications and have had too little attention on prevention of health problems. A greater proportion of the expected growth in the total income of health and care services must now come in the form of free income for municipalities. Ensuring a good and equivalent health supply to all, regardless of cages, and the kind of social and economic background, is another overriding and important objective of health policy. To achieve this, I think it is necessary to continue the work of building a strong public health service, where hospitals in the main are eight and driven by the public, but with private enterprises, private hospitals and contract specialists as useful partners. The average waiting time for treatment before the specialist services has increased from 70 days to 73 days in 2009. I think we need to take a serious look at developments when there is an increase in waiting times. The government has started an extensive effort to find effective means to reduce waiting times. In order to reduce waiting times, special attention must be paid to outpatient activities. The solution is not just to buy more health services from the private sector. Studies suggest that about one sixth of the adult population has a mental and/or drug problem all the time. For those working outside the labour force, the psychological problem is a major cause of one quarter. Several studies suggest that people with severe mental disorders are among those who have been squandered in the municipalities and the worst living conditions. The WHO believes that by 2020 mental disorders will be the main cause of disease stress in Western countries. The evaluation report has shown that the mental health escalation plan has given a boost to mental health work and that it has been a strong resource and activity growth. But there are still major challenges. One example is that daily places both in the district psychiatric centres and in the hospital wards are used to a large extent for people who should have had an organized provision of housing and services in the municipalities. Psychiatric therapy must therefore be continued. According to the WHO, alcohol is the third largest risk factor for health damage in our part of the world. It shows the need for a public health perspective in drug policy. The social and socio-economic consequences of drug use are considerable. Many children suffer from their parents ’ drug abuse. The escalation plan for the drug field was and is therefore absolutely necessary. In the 2010 budget, there is an increase of 150 million. kr, where the specialist services receive SEK 42 million. NOK of this. The efforts in the municipalities must be strengthened in line with the intentions of the Cooperation Reform. In particular, I think we must have better provision for those with dual diagnosis of drugs-psychiatry. Time before drug treatment has to go down. That the work with rusakutt in Oslo and Bergen started up, is positive. This is absolutely necessary, and it will provide a more coherent and seamless health supply for those in debt. The budget for the health and care sector presented by the Government is a good budget with a good social profile. The Ministry of Health and Welfare’s total budget for 2010 is approximately DKK 128 billion, a real increase of about DKK 2 billion or about 1.5 pst. The new distribution of income in line with the Magnussen selection option has been completed. It is added to growth in patient treatment of 1.3 pst. The aim is to increase the prevention and priority of patients who need it most, both in the specialist services, in the municipal health and care services and in the dental services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e584	I have a question about resource-intensive services. Take a starting point from a user who has a payroll of 4 million. In order to keep the level of the budget for 2009 a reduction of this user’s service offer of NOK 900000 is therefore necessary. Taking into account a normal salary increase for the next year, the offer will have to be reduced by 700000 kroner compared to the starting point before the government's budget proposal was put on the table. The centre party has often stressed that the wit is equally distributed here in the country and my question is whether the centre party now believes that the municipalities are wasting in relation to these users, or what basic need are the government parties now thinking that these patients and users should no longer be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e591	There has been a cost development of the resource-requiring services, and work has been started to find out why. We've had a growth from the Government and the Storting, because of the resource-writing services, but because of cost developments, the percentage has had to go down. For 2009, however, the increase in tax revenue has weighed up this reduction for the vast majority of municipalities, and the non-resident municipalities, we need to pay particular attention to this. But I agree that this is a very important user group in the municipalities, which we have to offer as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e596	Under the government of Stoltenberg, health cows have increased by 62,000 patients, and the waiting time for necessary health care is still increasing. The government is constantly trying to say that the waiting time is only slightly increasing, but the fact is that for some patient groups the waiting time is too long. An example is those patients who need somatic treatment at the Rikshospital, who on average wait four months for treatment, and there are three weeks more than before. It is provocative to hear government parties drive to minimize waiting times and waiting lists, while in fact there are many patients who experience this as a problem and a challenge in everyday life. If you suspect that you have cancer, it is unsustainable to walk for several weeks before knowing what diagnosis you have. Faster help could save many people from problems and challenges in everyday life, and the proposal for a government budget says that waiting times should be kept low, but what will the government parties actually do to bring down health cows?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e603	It's not like we're minimizing the waiting times and the queues in the health care system. I have repeated that on several occasions, including in my post, and I thought that we should take it seriously. We have said, and the government has said, in the budget that there will be a review of this to see who is in line, why and how long. Of course, most of the queues are in outpatient practice. I think we need to look at what's going on in health companies, in outpatient clinics, to see if you can be more effective there. What I totally agree with the representative Eivind Nävdal-Bolstad is that it can be unsustainable for many patients to be in a condition of health, and we take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e609	We've seen a huge increase in the number of abortions lately. Not least, we also read in Bergen’s Official Journal that this is a major concern in the West. Many young girls use the attack pill almost as a prevention. Last year, the government reduced its efforts towards Amathea, which the representative of the Central Party is probably well aware of. In this situation, I think we should address this in a much more serious way than what we can find in the state budget. It is also quite a long time since we had a debate in this room – initiated by the Christian People's Party on abortion-related measures – and where the Government would then come back with new measures, which have let itself wait and been put at risk. What I'm asking is whether the Center Party is concerned about this development, and how you think you can solve it when you're part of a government machine.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e620	The centre party is concerned about the development of abortion. The most serious thing is that we see an increase in those between 20 and 24 years old – not the very youngest groups. If it's the attacker who's been involved in this or not, we have to figure out. When it concerns Amathea and what has happened to the state budget, I would like to make it clear that there is one of several important measures in abortion prevention work. I think a lot of this has to be done locally too – I think about the school staff, also in the school. For example, one sees this on advanced schools that do not have good enough schooling services. I very much agree with the Christian People's Party that we have to look at the measures in relation to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e627	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e630	We are now receiving alarming messages about stepping down in the mental health service, both in hospitals and in the municipalities. In the first year after the Roadmap for Mental Health, what we feared is happening. That escalation there was cross-political agreement, and that we succeeded with, is not followed up. In Southern hospitals, even before the escalation plan was completed, funds have been withheld, which have thus been used for other than mental health protection. For more than three years, this represents about 70 million. kr. At Akershus University Hospital, there is a proposal that profits of 16 million. kr in 2009 shall be used for purposes other than mental health. Next year, they'll cut the budget by $30 million. kr, which would mean that they would have to close a DPS bed post and remove an emergency team. I have also received an e-mail from a concerned municipality, Austevoll, where the local government will reduce the mental health service by two jobs. In the e-mail it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the "Then let's see who can only administer and give advice. Now we had built up a good offer with good actors. So everything was abruptly gone because the funds are no longer eartaged." He further asks what the Minister of Health will do with this, since the health services provided by municipalities are also her overall responsibility. I'm really wondering that, too. The government's own number is that 16 pst. That's as much as approx. 70 municipalities, report that they have reduced their commitment to mental health work. That is very worrying. Another enquiry I have received is from an employee in the mental health protection in Finnmark. All of these have come in the last few days. He writes that there are now demands from Health North to reduce by 10 million. kr. It's going to be taken on the daily parts. The evaluation of the Mental Health Progression Plan shows that what can easily be counted and measured has been achieved, but challenges remain in terms of content and quality of service. That's why what's now happening is nothing less than sad. According to the escalation plan, there is currently a documented need for 2,800 organised housing for mentally ill people. Many in this group are homeless. This weakens their ability to benefit from the health service. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has proposed the construction of 3,000 nursing homes and housing, including: for mentally ill. The evaluation of the escalation plan also shows that municipalities are concerned about a lower supply to mentally ill people since the funds for this are no longer earmarked. Designation of funds has been a success, which has helped to achieve the objectives of the plan. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed continued designation both this year and next year – until we get the treatment offer that is necessary, and that we can say that now we have a clearly good quality. Unfortunately, we see that the waiting time for mental illness treatment has begun to rise after several years of decline. The waiting time has also increased for addicts — more have been involved today. In the last two years the waiting time has increased by 15 days. It looks like it won't sink with the first one. The Christian People's Party believes for some reason that the Government will not use available capacity in non-profit drug institutions or that regional health companies will not – it is those who make the decisions. This applies both to specialist health services and to municipal care. The Christian People's Party proposes 100 million in the alternative budget. in addition to the Government's proposal to use this available capacity. We also want to ensure a comprehensive drug policy with a focus on prevention and to propose 10 million in an alternative budget. to strengthen the important work undertaken by voluntary drug-prevention organisations. The Christian People's Party wants to target health policy measures better. We focus on health care measures, which have both a health benefit and are poverty-relieving. There are health differences because of social inequalities. This violates the principle of equivalent healthcare to all. This affects not least those who are addicted to alcohol. In the alternative budget, we propose to add 150 million. kr as a first step towards removing the abductions of low income treatment and medicine, i.e. households with income below 2 G. In 2010, this could result in a significant reduction in the proportion of excess equity for that group. That also means that we cover it with an increase in equity of NOK 1 by NOK 200 for other groups. There is also a need for dental reform. The Christian People's Party proposes in the alternative budget as a first step on the road, 80 million. kr for exemption from the proportion of dental services for persons who are beneficiaries of social assistance or who participate in the qualification programme. The government's promises in the election campaign are not in line with the content of the new government statement. Another reform that has been lagging behind, and which has been agreed upon in the Storting, is rehabilitation. We've got a strategy plan from the government that hasn't given it the promise of many chroniclers and others have been waiting for. An unexpected proposal from the Government in the budget is what I was about to do instead of my question, namely to cut the population's backs for physiotherapists in outpatient clinics. This is dramatic. I believe that giving these funds to regional health companies after the usual basic distribution is wrong and wrong. Some will get more resources, others will get less for physical therapy in outpatient clinics next year. Several hospitals have already been notified of major reductions and say that they, for example: must lay down the hot water basin. In this way, the Government is raging a necessary rehabilitation measure. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get And the fact that regional health companies are going to follow it up, and we're really going to see that. I think I can list at least ten things that I have in my head, which they have not followed up despite the fact that it is in the commission documents of the Government. It's not that they slavishly follow up on what the Council of State writes. I wish! Many, including older people, do not meet their needs for life support in the final phase of life. Meeting dying people and meeting their physical, mental, social and spiritual needs are, and must be, one of the most important things we do. The Christian People's Party is in an alternative budget to strengthen the provision of life support in health and care services. Several treatment relief units in hospitals and municipalities, a general increase in life support and ethics across the healthcare system and outpatient teams where healthcare professionals with special knowledge of relief treatment come home to the dying, are among the measures we propose. In addition to bets on the construction of several nursing homes and homes, including hospice places for the dying, this together represents a 100 million bet. kr. The Christian People's Party is now awaiting the follow-up to the guarantee of dignity, which has been at the hearing. A prerequisite for better care for the elderly is a good system of rights at the bottom. But strengthened rights alone are not enough. That is why we believe that a number of other measures need to be taken in place as well. First of all, there must be sufficient capacity in the municipalities in the case of hospital and nursing homes. Older people need to be confident that they will receive the help they need, among other things. when they get sick. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party proposes strengthening the care of the elderly through increased efforts to build nursing homes and homes. So we're proposing 500 more places than the government. Furthermore, we want a reinforced elderly care research and incentives to set up and operate day care facilities for dementes. Too few people get an offer to do this today. Knowledge and competence must be built up to meet the needs of demented people, and we must try to solve the dementia problem. We cannot wait for the cooperation reform to do all this. When the budget was presented in the autumn, I received a very quick telephone call from a concerned rapporteur in Gulen, and then it was the conversion of funding for resource-intensive services. The Christian People's Party wants to continue today's system of coverage of resource-intensive services in the municipalities, and refers to its alternative budget for proposals of 300 million. NOK to this. Those with the greatest challenges in everyday life must be guaranteed good public services. The State must not transfer any more of the responsibility for this to the municipalities. This framework is likely to provide services to other recipients of health and care services. The government’s proposal that this should be retroactive for 2009 is very unfortunate and has not been – I would say – particularly popular in the municipal health service. In the end, something that's very strong on my heart is that we have a group of very, very ill ME patients, as the council knows. I wish these patients had been believed in our healthcare system. They are not believed to be ill. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e682	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e687	Like the government parties, the Christian People's Party is very concerned that ideal actors should be an important complement to public health at different levels, for example. rehabilitation. It seems a little less clear if the Christian People's Party shares the view of the Right and the Advance Party that private, commercial providers far more than is the case today are to enter into the health service with reimbursement agreements with the public. Does the Christian People's Party share the views of the two parties mentioned? And see the representative Davøy that in that case it could mean over-establishing special health services in the most popular areas, such as the Netherlands. Oslo and its surroundings, and that it can rock the idea of equivalent offers across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e692	Rehabilitation is not exactly the problem now, at least not in terms of rehabilitation, drug addiction and mental health — there are winding-ups going on. But we are enough – unlike the Right Party and the Advance Party – something more on the Government's line of not commercialising health and social care. We are probably more concerned about commercial players than that, for example. The right and the right party are, but we want the ideals to get better conditions. We don't say no to private, not at all. But if we're talking about huge dividend practices, we're not so excited about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e697	I allow myself to challenge the representative of Davøy and the Christian People's Party on the proposal to wind up the regional level of specialist health services and put down regional enterprises. It is especially that the Christian People's Party is in favour of the proposal, because they were as critical of the corporate organization as SV was. An important reason was the fear of centralisation. Now we have a regional level, with regional competence in the administrations and governments of the peculiarities, in the West, in Middle Norway, in North Norway and in Health South-East. Does the representative Davøy not see that this closure of the regional level means a marked centralisation of the decisions and management of the specialist health service? So maybe the answer is yes, but we're going to move a lot of these problems over to the health care companies. The question then arises: what are the decisions to move to health businesses that are not already transferred to health businesses today? Can you suggest what kind of decisions it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e704	I'm very concerned that regional health companies have done a good job, but I think it's time to divide the tasks between the other two levels. We have not gone through the details of this in our hospital selection. The problem is, as we saw in the evaluation of the health business model, that the equivalent services have not become more similar between regional health companies, but internally in each regional health business they have become. My biggest and foremost appeal to regional health companies, and it is those who currently operate healthcare, is that there is a lack of political governance. Take these mission documents. Let me mention some areas: Koklea implants – there has even been talk about how many operations you should have – have not been followed up. Me beds are to be built for the sickest, but we don't know when they're coming. Psychiatric health – that's where they spend the money for other things. Ideal institutions are laid down, the chronicler groups, the use of non-profit institutions – lack of political governance is one of the main problems we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e711	There has been a great deal of discussion in this debate. On the right, they have today confirmed that they do not want to use the free capacity of the public health centre first, but will only be based on buying more health services in the private health system. My question is whether the Christian People's Party agrees with the government party that in this work we should use free capacity in the public health community first, or whether the Christian People's Party shares its position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e716	If the problem had been that we had crazy good capacity in public in the field of drugs, rehabilitation and mental health, I would have said, of course, that we use it publicly before we build something new. But the problem today is that we have a government that is stepping down in terms of the ideal institutions and the private institutions, before they have built up in public. If you want to build up in public – we know, for example. at 90 pst. Of all the care services in the West are private, and I understand that you want to build something there – you don’t have to wind up until you build up. I'm actually busy with the patients and they're going to get an offer. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e722	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e725	Norway is a good country to live in in most areas. We spend a lot of money on health and care – sums that other countries can only dream of. Nevertheless, there are also challenges in Norway. Major challenges are coming along with the growth in the number of elderly patients, along with the growth in the number of patients with different lifestyle diseases and mental disorders. The left considers that a switch to healthcare is needed to meet these challenges. The specialist health service has had a huge growth in expenditure, in fact a double in the last ten years. Therefore, it is important that we manage to treat more patients earlier and at a lower level than what we do today. But even though the Government has good intentions, it shows little implementation. It's going to go a little further, while prioritizing measures and appropriations that would really reform the health care system, we don't see much at all. Everyone agrees that the cooperation reform should be implemented in some form. But the great grip, that municipalities are large enough to handle the interaction at a satisfactory level and with enough professionals, is hardly going to happen to this government. Rehabilitation is another area where the bet is missing. If primary health services were given better opportunities to carry out rehabilitation and purchase more treatment sites, we could prevent more people from getting into long-term illness, which in some cases ends up with disability. That's why the Left has prioritised 200 million. kr extra for rehabilitation in its alternative state budget. The left has been committed to strengthening primary health services in a number of areas, including: through increased capacity and better provision of healthcare sisters and health stations, which may have a good preventative effect. The left has also prioritised 200 million. kr for more treatment of addicts. This is a field in which the Left is very concerned, and which I expect the Minister of Health to also spend time and energy on, cf. Today's Newspaper. The last Minister of Health promised with a fire and brim 50 million. SEK to a Rusakutt at Aker University Hospital by 2009. According to Dagbladet 27 November 2009, this is not yet in place, contrary to what Toppe said in his post here instead. I also want to challenge the current Minister of Health on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e743	I think it is something special that the Left Party, as a party promoting innovation and research, has put a large cut in national health records in its budget. As I understand it, they justify it because it's a political stance. Then I guess that's the privacy they're looking for. It is now the case that the majority’s draft budget includes a strengthening of privacy in relation to the national health registers. At present, several national health registries are not complete and up to date, so that greater efforts are needed to obtain good and correct data. Then I think it would be good to hear from the Left how they think that a good research on cancer, mental illness, addiction, etc. whether we cut in the allocation of the health records, thereby removing part of the data required by the researchers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e750	The policy is to give priority, as the representative knows very well. We have invested in rehabilitation, as I said in my post instead. I am very sorry that this government does not, so that a little sick may come back to work. We've been focusing on health sisters, who will take care of it preventively so that people don't get sick, and we've been spending 200 million on those addicts who are addicted to drugs. Extra kroner. We think this is more important than what the representative is now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e757	You gave in your post an expression of a great commitment to the work to help the addicts. It's deserving, and we're going to cooperate on that. At the same time, the World Health Organization says that a whole of 12 pst. alcohol use in society is the result of the loss of a healthy life-year. For example, 300 people in Norway consume more than nine bottles of wine each day. I want to challenge the Left with a question about how bold political intervention Left is willing to join in so that more Norwegian children can wake up to a better Sunday morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e766	Despite the theme, the President must remember that all speeches are to be made through the President. You form isn't fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e769	I would like to thank you for this question, which is extremely important. We are now going towards a Christmas that I know very many young people are very much afraid of. Now it's like there's something that involves me, and that I want to spend a lot more time in the future, it's about rush and psychiatry. We in the Left believe that we need to take psychiatry more seriously. I think addiction and psychiatry are very much related. We have to look at that a lot more closely, and I hope we can work together on that, because this is a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e776	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e779	During the first few weeks as Minister of Health and Health, I have traveled a lot around the country. I have seen and listened to patients and relatives and those who run Health-Norway professionally and administratively. I'm impressed by how good it is in many places, and how pleased patients and users are with the offer they get. Health and care professionals all over the country do a great job every day, and I'm proud to be the Council of State for this sector. The government wants us to be in the front line medical and technological. The goal is proper treatment in the right place at the right time. Unfortunately, this is not the case for everyone today. In some areas, we are worse off than countries we like to compare with. There are still too long waiting times in some disciplines. Some people don't get the services they need. They experience a lack of contact between hospitals and municipalities, within the municipality and between different professional groups. At the same time, Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends most of its resources on health. This applies whether we measure health costs per person. population or as a share of public and private consumption, or we measure doctors and nurses per. the population. If we're going to get more health for every penny, we're going to have to bet on prevention and getting started early, so we can avoid getting sick worse. We do best to do this when we give people good health services where they live and where they live — that is. in the municipalities. These are the pillars of the cooperation reform, which many have been involved in here in the debate and which are now being discussed in the Grand Duchy. We need to adapt the financial arrangements, the legislation and the organisation of healthcare to provide patients with a related health service and to maximise the use of resources. Today's decentralised hospital services are to be maintained. The government will continue work on a better work sharing between hospitals. This may mean that some hospitals do other tasks than they do today. In particular, local hospitals are to care for patients who have a high need for close to their home. This applies, for example: sick elderly, chronically ill patients, drug-dependent and mentally ill. At the same time, several local medical centres should help to avoid unnecessary hospitalisation. The interaction reform should facilitate good and effective solutions. Electronic communications in Health-Norway are at a level that we cannot be familiar with in 2009. Good interaction and efficient resource use require municipalities and hospitals to take advantage of the opportunities offered by modern information technology in a much better way than they do today. In emergency situations, those to help must have access to vital information about the patient. The treating doctor needs to know what the patient is getting from medications, and we need to make sure that the home morbidity actually gives the drugs that are prescribed. Among other things, we had: a week ago, an interesting interpellation debate here in the Stortingen on the very use of medicines in hospitals, which also underlines the importance of this. By 2013, all municipalities will have started electronic interaction in the municipal services – with the local authorities, with the specialist health service and with public institutions. We need to develop telemedicine solutions, digital nuclear records and electronic medical cards. Early assistance and prevention shall be given far higher priority than today, not least in order to contribute to reducing health inequalities between different groups. The government will expand lowthreshold services such as school health services and health centres so that children and young people can get help as early as possible before the problems develop in a serious direction. But it's not that healthcare can solve all our health problems. The health of the population and the social health differences are mainly influenced by non-health-care conditions — from economics and growing-up conditions through the working and living environment to health behaviour. Governments will contribute to good health and reduce health inequalities in the population. This is achieved by pursuing a comprehensive policy to balance social disparities, in parallel with measures that enable individuals to take better care of their own health. It makes a strong impression on me, and I believe in all of us, to see how drug abuse destroys the lives of young people and their families. The personal and social consequences of drug use can be profoundly tragic. This group has the highest morbidity, they experience being excluded from the community, and they have the highest mortality rate. Many children suffer from parental drug use. Major costs are related to health and social assistance, job losses and drugrelated crime. Too many people with drug problems experience that they do not receive the treatment they need when they are motivated. They must wait too long at the treatment site after detoxification, and the after protection is too poor. More prevention, better emergency services and aftercare are important elements of a comprehensive and offensive drug policy. We have succeeded in building a country with good living conditions, and an important sign of this is increasing life expectancy. When we refer to this as the ‘Elder Wave’, we make it sound as if older people are a threat to the welfare community. Now we have to turn our perspective around and think offensively about many healthy elderly people. They are a fantastic resource that can contribute valuable experience and knowledge in society. The increase in life expectancy makes it absolutely necessary to implement the Health Plan 2015. We need to recruit and hire more – about 12,000 annual jobs in the care and care service. That means that we need to expand at least 12,000 nursing homes and happy day care facilities, and the government will ensure full hospital coverage by 2015 by providing it to all those who need nursing homes or nursing homes. We will implement the lift of competences and strengthen the provision of elderly people in a number of areas. Hospitals are the most important budget item in the Ministry of Health. The draft budget facilitates a growth in patient treatment of about 1.3 pst. at national level. It's good, but, like many people who have been involved, I also see increased waiting times seriously. It is a clear goal that waiting times should decrease, but we have no ambition that there should be no waiting time at all. In that case, it would lead to significant overcapacity and would not contribute to the good use of resources. I have put in place a comprehensive effort to find measures that can reduce waiting times for treatment. We shall assess whether the methods used to measure waiting times are appropriate to plan and manage. For 2010, I want to step up the requirement for regional health companies to reduce the waiting times for diagnosis and treatment. Control of the hospital budget is a prerequisite for maintaining and further developing health and care services. That is why I am pleased that we are now close to succeeding in achieving a financial balance in health businesses. Through the Interaction Reform, municipalities will be given greater responsibility. This may mean that some hospitals do other tasks than they do today. Free capacity in public hospitals shall be used. Agreements between health undertakings and private commercial hospitals shall not undermine the patient base of the small hospitals. The government will continue to work on solutions that are for the benefit of the patient. I am convinced that we must implement the main idea of the Cooperation Reform, that is. more prevention and strengthening of municipal health provision. That is why the work on the Interaction Reform in the future is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e816	In recent times, we have had a media debate, especially here in the capital press, which actually overshadows the attention of the state budget, and this is about the closure of Aker hospitals. There are different views on the matter. Among other things, the Oslo representative, Marit Nybakk, has demanded that the Minister intervene. I'm not going to ask if the Council of State will do that, because I think I know what the answer will be, that one will wait for the process. But there has also been a different interpretation of Soria Moria, where it says that you don't want to shut down a local hospital. The representative Kjersti Toppe, the Central Party, believes that this only applies to the districts. Both Jan Bøhler, Marit Nybakk, Rune Gerhardsen and others from the minister's own party believe that this should apply to the whole country. Which of the interpretations does the Minister of Health share?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e821	It is quite right that all people living in Norway should have access to a local hospital, wherever they live. So do they. With regard to the special situation in Oslo, I have to say that there is not one place in this country where you have as good a health offer as for those who live in Oslo. They've got the country's second-best hospital offer. When we merged Health South and Health East, coordination of services in Oslo was a prerequisite. It is this work that is now in progress, and it is this work Health South-East is to be dealt with, for the first time, at its Governing Board meeting on 17 December. Then we'll have to wait and see the result, but there's no doubt that everyone who lives in Oslo is going to have a good community hospital offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e828	In Dagbladet on November 14, we could read that the Council of State would give priority to the young drug addicts. Since there is no money in this budget for this specific priority, I would like to know what drug users it is that are now going to lose their offer, and what offers these are going to lose in order for the Council of State to implement its announced priority of the youngest users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e833	First of all, what I meant by my statement was that you have to try everything you can to avoid young people getting into a situation of drug abuse. But once they've done that, we both from the municipal and state teams have to try to get hold of them to help them out of it as quickly as possible, because we know that the longer they're in a drug addiction, the more they'll develop a disease, and the harder it will be to get them out of the abuse they're in. There is no contradiction between caring for and focusing on young drug users and focusing on the heaviest. There has been a lot of debate on the heaviest drug users – the Stoltenberg Committee is set up in this context – but young people are also important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e843	I perceive that the Minister of Health has a genuine commitment to the drug addicts, and I am very pleased about that. So we're very excited about what this will do as a result of concrete action. We are in a situation where the waiting time for this group increases most. Over 4,000 are in line. Last week the NRK was told that the Minister of Health had decided to demand that there be an increase in the treatment of psychiatric patients at 10 p.m. My question to the Council of State is, what's going to increase by 10 pst?? Is there a number treated? Is that the economy? And not least, will this demand for an increase of 10 pst. are drug-dependent and multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts? Former Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen just introduced the principle that the treatment provision for drug addicts and psychiatric patients alone should increase more than the treatment provision in somatic areas in each region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e852	Now this offer in these two areas, such as the representative Höie mentioned, drug use and psychiatry, has increased more than in the somatic field. It is not least, of course, thanks to the escalation plans that have been in these two areas and that have led to a greater commitment to it. It's been quite right, and it'll also be right to keep going in these areas. With regard to the specific issue of what was on the radio, it was about psychiatry, because there has been a debate – even here today – where there is a constant need to reduce psychiatry. It hasn't been the assumption at all. That's not the assumption, and that's not what's going to happen. In the case of specialist healthcare and psychiatry, there has been a switch from daily treatment to much more outpatient treatment in psychiatry. It's a change that professionals agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e861	In March of this year, there was a cross-political agreement to continue the offer of heart disease at the Fairing Clinic. On March 30, the then State Council informed Hanssen that he would instruct the regional health companies to refer 900 patients to surgical treatment. On 18 August, the same Council of State said that there would be a financial contribution to the Feiring Clinic to stabilise the economy and ensure its operation if there were fewer than 900 patients. In the election campaign, the red-green politicians went from big business and government to the Feiring Clinic, and there were no limits to what they were going to contribute, only they were elected. Now they're running away from their 2009 promises. So they're going to fail in total. The right, like employees and patient organisations, is deeply concerned about the future of the clinic. Several have today said that a sustainable agreement should be ensured for 2010. But who dares to believe in these promises? The government has had several months to find a solution, without that happening. Is it now possible to get a clear response from the Council of State to what she will actually do in order to keep the promise of professional, financially sound operations at the Fairing Clinic in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e870	Let me first say that the celebrations clinic has for many years given a very good and invaluable offer to residents of Norway who have heart problems, and will also do so in 2010. The clinic has had an agreement with Health South-East, and it will still have it. How the arrangement for that agreement is, I will come back to it, as I have also said. However, it is now that other healthcare companies have developed offers in their own regions for those with heart disease. There are changes in the way you operate that make this more effective, and there is also a better focus on prevention that has reduced the need somewhat. We're going to get back to this, but it's clear that in the case of the Feiring Clinic, it's been and is a very important supplement to public health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e877	I have a question in the same vein as the representative, Höie, because the Council of State did not really answer any part of the question. It is true that the Council of State said that mental health should increase capacity by 10 pst. in 2010. But what does that mean? Does that mean the number of treatments, i.e. the number of patients – multiple heads – to be treated? Or that means you also have to increase 10 pst. in the case of budgetary resources? If it's just a matter of increasing the capacity in terms of the number of heads, maybe one patient could be 52 if you go through the system once a week for an entire year. I have not said that the conversion is wrong. It's probably quite right that you have to go to a conversion, but my point is, are we going to spend the same amount of money in psychiatry? Or should we just count heads? Because it's much more expensive to be admitted, of course. But I'm concerned about the financial framework for psychiatry and mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e886	In the case of the economy, it's in the budget. We are not going to change the budget that is being presented today. The budget to be provided is what is to be adopted today. But we expect that the conversion that is absolutely necessary in psychiatry, from daily treatment to more outpatient treatment, will result in an increase of 10 pst. psychiatry treatments. That's what this is about, and that's what this goal is also about. It must be that out of outpatient day treatment, more will be achieved than the daily treatment provided in psychiatry in Norway. In this context, I would like to say again, when we look at bed places in psychiatry, we have about a double of our neighboring country. We need more outpatient day care for psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e894	I read in Dagbladet today that 19 - year - old addict Stephen is too young to get methadone. He's been heroin addicted for five years, and there's nothing he wants to do but live a life without drugs. The left has repeatedly suggested softening the conditions for LAR and removing the age limit of 25 years and replacing it with individual assessments. I have two questions for the Minister of Health. One is, why has the Workers' Party repeatedly voted in favour of removing the age limit for methadone? And question 2 is: Can we expect the Minister of Health to be in favour of other measures – as the Left has proposed in the Stortinget, and as the Labour Party has previously voted down – such as: 24-hour treatment guarantee for drug addicts entering acute detoxification?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e903	With regard to the proposal on the age limit for methadone, as the representative says, there has been a 25-year age limit. An amendment to the regulation has been in consultation and is proposed in particular. the need to remove the age limit and to have individual treatment. It is clear that the use of medically assisted treatment, as it is, must be carefully assessed if young drug users are going to switch to this type of treatment. We have not yet dealt with this matter. It has been at the hearing, and there have been many objections. It's an important area. I think you have to go more towards an individual treatment and look at each individual, not focusing so much on age.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e910	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e913	Much can be said about this budget, which will be very important for a very large part of the population. I will stick to some themes that I myself find extra important to lift up. In these days when the government has been busy bringing down the sick leave, I am wondering whether the instruments we have, and as we know, are not being used by the Government. Proper treatment at the right time should still not be used as an instrument. People are still going for months on end with payments of sick pay or rehabilitation money while waiting for an investigation or an operation. The government formally requests increased health benefits payments. We know that rehabilitation is absolutely essential for people to come back to work after illness or injury. The government itself has said that they know this. Rehabilitation and rehabilitation are also crucial for people living with a chronic disease, in terms of being able to work. The government itself has said this. So there's no lack of knowledge! Several calculation models show that one krona allocated to health at an early stage provides several kronor saved in the coming years. It's a good store, as well as making your everyday life better for those who are involved. Why doesn't the government take in this knowledge? In fact, many people don't understand. Most people ask about the same thing, and it could be okay if the representatives of the government parties or the state council could explain why they want people to wait, why they want people to go on benefits longer than necessary, and why they want to get the most out of trouble. At least the Progress Party does not have a wish for as much as possible for social security. That is why the budget for health and care has also been a winner this year in the alternative budget of the Progress Party. It is important to stress that the Advance Party's alternative budget would have provided treatment to more than 50,000 more people than the Government's plans, thus providing fantastic savings on several other items and chapters for many years to come. At the same time, it would give more than 50,000 people a better everyday life than they now get. So this is sad. Every sixth rehabilitation site has disappeared under this government, and only the government itself understands what they're doing. Where the government cuts, the Progress Party goes the other way and allocates another 300 million. kr. Where the government talks year in and year out, there's the Progress Party. The tranquillity is going to fail again. For years, we've had a russian that's not related. All know the importance of a comprehensive drug policy ranging from prevention to follow-up and treatment, without delay. For those struggling with drug dependence, it is about ensuring better and more accessible services. People at risk of developing, or having developed, drug problems often need complex services over time. Many have somatic and mental disorders as well as drug problems. In order to provide these people with good services, it is therefore necessary to provide services ranging from prevention through primary health services, social services and care services to specialist health services. It is with concern that I note that the State Health Authority in its country-wide supervision of municipal social services for drug users has found major shortcomings in the provision of municipal services. System audits carried out in 2009 by the Health Authority in the counties show, inter alia: the non-compliance of cross-checking regulations in many cases, with the consequence that users are not given a decision on services and that regulatory action, as individual level, has not been taken. Lack of interaction contributes to the lack of a comprehensive assistance service for users, and neither individuals nor society have an adequate impact on the efforts of the different agencies. The Progress Party therefore strengthens its efforts for drug users by 400 million. kr in its budget in relation to the Government's proposals. One hundred and seventy-five million. kr is intended for the purchase of treatment capacity by non-profit and private drug institutions. While several thousand drug users are waiting for treatment, the availability and quality of treatment provided by ideal or private providers is unacceptable. There is now a need for a strong commitment in the care of drug users at all stages of the treatment chain, as the Progress Party also does in its alternative state budget for 2010. The advance party also allocates 200 million. extra to strengthen the work of drug users in municipalities. Many municipalities cut in these days the offer of care, not because local politicians are not concerned about this, but because the municipalities are getting too little money to be able to follow up in all areas satisfactorily. Once again, addicted losers are addicted. In this connection, I would like to refer to an e-mail I received a week ago from a lady who works in the care of Russorg. Her claim was that the government has committed the care business. Her claim was that drug users receive outpatient treatment for a few hours, then to be placed at the back of the line again. By doing that, you make the waiting lists look shorter than they actually are. Purchases of treatment sites have fallen dramatically under the current government. The lady could tell that they have room for 25 people, but only five places are in use. Employees are on the perm, multidisciplinary competences in drugs and psychiatry are gone, and drug users die. This is just one example of many of us in the Progress Party. So there is no lack of capacity, lack of money, interaction and willingness to help. I would also like to underline the invaluable work done by voluntary teams and organisations and acknowledge the importance of continuing this work. Voluntary work provides diversity and quality that is an essential complement to public life. In particular, this applies to lowthreshold services in very many areas, catching up a number of people who are struggling with different issues that the public would not have caught up with until the individual’s difficulties had developed into something more serious. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring that as far as possible each addict succeeds in becoming drug-free while at the same time achieving a good quality of life. It depends on the degree to which follow-up and back-up are provided. Voluntary teams and associations have different activities and extensive knowledge, and the Progress Party wants to cooperate with them in a wide variety of ways. Part of the supplementary appropriations are therefore specifically intended for the work of good and well-known organisations — none mentioned, none forgotten. Finally, mental health. I refer here to the alternative draft budget of the Progress Party, where this area is reinforced by 150 million. kr. The escalation plan for mental health did not achieve all the objectives set. It is vital that what was actually achieved is not weakened again due to a lack of funds. Psychiatric health work in municipalities needs to continue to be strengthened, in particular for future health work and in relation to the Interaction Reform, the development and strengthening of lowthreshold services in municipalities. Psychologically ill people who do not receive treatment walk around the streets or close behind closed doors. Confused and desperate, someone ends up taking their own life or harming others. It is therefore with disbelief that I register several suggestions to lay down important places for serious illness. Now last, it's about Ahus, with his proposal to put down 18 seats in Elvestad in Nes. This cannot be seen by the Government. In recent days, both health firms and local authorities have come up with disturbing signals indicating that mental health is being cut at all levels of the country. A young girl I know has mental problems, eating disorders and problems with self-harm. She's got a lucky day's arrangement that's good for her. But she doesn't want to be there. She tells me: I know there are a lot of people who are more sick than I am. I don't think I deserve to get this place. If another young girl dies because I've taken that place, it's wrong for me. That the most sick are most concerned about caring for each other, do something with you. Psychiatric disorders, anxiety and depression account for a large proportion of the sick pay payments, and it is simply not in the hands of the government to sit still and look at these developments. Big words and a lot of talk don't help these people. I'm worried. The party of progress is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e964	My impression of the debate so far is that the government parties talk a lot about billions, but little about people. Today, representatives from patient organisations, training and rehabilitation institutions launch a silent protest against the Government that is running away from its commitments to bet on rehabilitation and rehabilitation. They say in their press release: ‘There is an end to empty promises of bets on habilitation and rehabilitation. Not because they are fulfilled, but because the government has stopped promising." They're asking if it's just a game for the gallery, and that's why. There have been incredibly many political promises from the Government and the red-greens in the last four years, but it has not led to any real bet. Major deficiencies have been identified in the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation, among others. by the State Health Authority. Patient rights are broken every day in this area. Despite this, the Government has not proposed any strengthening of the rehabilitation area either in the previous ageing period or for 2010. On the contrary, the government has lowered its ambitions to provide a better rehabilitation offer. Since 2007, there has been a cross-political consensus on a national commitment to rehabilitation and that there must be the next major health effort. In the 2010 budget, the government parties have left this ambition and no longer support the next major bet area. In the Soria Moria I statement, it said that the Government would ensure the training of all those who need it. In Soria Moria II, the government says that adequate funds must be provided for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. But what are sufficient resources? The right notes with great disappointment that for the government it is only to continue the appropriations that have been in the last four years, despite the fact that they themselves say that the offer is deficient. The exception is the offer Faster back, but it does not include young people and others who need rehabilitation to be able to work, or all those who need rehabilitation to live a good life. I understand that the patient organisations and the trade unions are disappointed and have lost faith in the Government. Yes, they have even stated that they believe more in Christmas Eve than in the Government. The government and the red-green parties have systematically down-priority rehabilitation over several years. In addition, health cows are growing. It means lost opportunities for many people. It is about 750,000 people in pre-employment who are out of work and 270,000 in queues for treatment. For many of them, a better provision of treatment and rehabilitation would be the way back to work. For each individual, this is about freedom and quality of life, about being part of the community at work, about mastering everyday life, about contributing and paying the bills of your own income. But also for those who are not going back to work, habilitation and rehabilitation provide an opportunity to manage themselves, to master everyday life and get better quality of life. For the Right, this is about fundamental values and human vision. It's pretty arrogant of the red-greens to ignore 50 patient organisations and rehabilitation and training institutions. Now they have to get into the real world and listen to those who sit with the knowledge and experience. It is alarming that the number of days of treatment in training institutions has been reduced under the red-green government, while patients experience waiting lists and lack of provision throughout the country. Training institutions operate with reduced capacity as a result of restrictions on the agreements with regional health establishments. The right has twice proposed an economic escalation plan in Stortinget, but the government parties have voted against it. They are either very self-satisfied or they have neither the will nor the ability to prioritize the rehabilitation field. The right believes that clear political governance and earmarking of funds is essential for a period of time if we are to succeed in giving a boost to the rehabilitation field. It is not only useful to refer to increased appropriations to health businesses and hope that such a neglected area will win the internal battle for the budget crowns. With record health cows and an outstanding deficit of as much as 23 billion in regional health businesses, the area of rehabilitation will lose. That's the reality. That is why the Right in its alternative budgets has earmarked 500 million in the last three years. kr every year for a escalation in this area, in addition to 585 million. kr in the budget for 2010. There must be at least this level of investment in the years to come. The right considers that the private actors are an important part of the rehabilitation offer, not just a supplement. They represent a diversity and a useful corrigendum to public supply. Regional health businesses need to make use of the available capacity of training institutions to ensure that patients receive a faster offer. The framework conditions for all private actors need to be improved and strengthened, inter alia. through long-term contracts providing predictability of operations and investments. It is well documented that the provision of rehabilitation to children fails in both the community and specialist health services. This is about a group of children who are extra vulnerable and vulnerable. Children’s rights are threatened and parents are subjected to unnecessary burdens due to heavy red tape and a large-scale, unwieldy fragmented system and lack of competence of public authorities. These families must be guaranteed long-term, fair and stable arrangements. Already established financial support schemes are currently very fragmented and distributed at many levels of government. It helps to make it difficult for the administration to see the need in a holistic way. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the Government must review the conditions that may be unintended effects of the Nav reform for this group of parents and also parents of disabled children. In particular, the area of care and facilities for children is concerned. These parties have put forward a proposal to that effect and it is disappointing that the parties to the government do not support the proposal in the vote. But it's not too late. On the right, the Government expects health and social services and municipalities to find good solutions around each family, whether they use the IAHP as a training method or other methods. The solution must be based on equivalence, irrespective of where they live in the country, so that they can feel secure that they receive the support and assistance they need and demand. I want to ask the Council of State to address these problems and do something to ensure a better, comprehensive offer. These are families who have large and heavy care tasks, and they must be spared to have to fight to get legal and necessary help and support. Right will put good and functional frameworks around these families, so that the future of the children is as good as possible. It's a very demanding task for the parents, and I have to say I have deep respect for the job they're doing. They have earned all the help and support they need, and we can contribute. Finally, I would like to address the situation in mental health. It has been notified over time from several hospitals in the psychiatric offer. The management at Akershu University Hospital has proposed to drop the emergency teams at the district psychiatric centers at Lillestrøm, Jessheim and Grorud. Eighteen daily places at Elvestad in the municipality of Nes have been proposed to be removed. This is a situation that we have received signals from several places in the country. The mentally ill become the losers, and many professionals say that life can be lost. It says, as I said, both professionals and mental health. This proposal could have major consequences for mental ill people in Akershus and Oslo who need immediate help or accommodation. The Legacy Act will be the only option, but it's not good enough. There's no professional help. Now we've spent ten years and many billions of dollars building up the supply of mental health. What is now happening, not only in Akershus, but also elsewhere in the country, is not in line with the Pedagogy Plan for Mental Health, and I would so strongly urge the Council of State to stop the escalation and the rapprochement of the offer to the mentally ill. The right will not accept the offer of this group as a balancing item in hospitals’ budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1014	The Labour Party will give people good care when they need it, which is clearly reflected in our budget. Every day many thousands in Norway get good care, and every day thousands of health workers do a great job. Most of them are therefore satisfied with the offer they receive. Many want more, of course, and some are, for various reasons, dissatisfied. There's a lot of work to do to meet the challenges we see. I would like to mention in particular Mestring, opportunities and meaning, the Demen Plan 2015 and the Cooperation Reform, as part of what we have presented. We need more caregivers in the future – well-qualified employees to meet the challenges of complex disease images, dementias and people who want to live longer at home. From 2005 to 2009, annual work in municipalities in the care service increased by 13pst. According to the Central Statistical Office, about 80 pst. of their health and social background. These are positive numbers, and it shows that we're doing well. Therefore, the Competence Lift 2015 is important. It contains strategies for empowerment and recruitment, and one of the objectives is to create a gross access of 4 500 health professionals each year. But so important are the measures that will fill all educational groups and build new competences. Future care services will have a greater and more important role to play in all parts of the patient’s care. The field is becoming more professionally challenging and provides attractive jobs which, in turn, can increase recruitment. We also need more nursing homes and lucky places, and the goal is full hospital coverage by 2015. That's what we get by giving grants to 12,000 places until 2015. For 2010, the proposal is 2 500 units. The application file is large and the Committee notes that it is important to carry out an ongoing assessment of the framework and phase-in, so that we both have sufficient space, with a good geographical spread, and development at an appropriate pace. It is also important to modernise and use existing buildings. Many people want to live at home for a long time, and this must also be facilitated, while at the same time caring for them with a greater need for security and care. The guarantee of dignity takes this into account. It clarifies the responsibilities of the municipality, and anyone in need of care should receive it. The legal status of the elderly is thus strengthened. The guarantee of dignity provides a description of the value base of the care of the elderly and of the measures in which the provision of services is organised in compliance with the right of self-determination of users. Examples of this are housing according to needs and conditions, varied and sufficient food, normal life with normal daily rhythm and offering exclusive spaces. So that means to make more decisions about yourself. However, we need to recognise the challenges, especially in relation to the increasing number of dentures. Unfortunately, care services are not dimensioned to meet this, nor are there enough day services to relieve relatives. Competence is also lacking here. Demenplan 2015 outlines good, forward-looking actions that the Council of State had in mind, and several things are already well under way. The Labour Party believes that municipalities can provide the good services we want. The tasks are numerous, and while they are being repaired, they must prevent them. This concerns everything from school health services to drug prevention and mental health care. Lowthreshold drug and mental health services are good prevention. There are many good spice layers. I would like to mention some of the offers: the Fontenehusets, the user-driven Larvik House – both good low-threshold services in mental health – or the social-medical centres for drug addicts, among others. in Sandefjord, in Porsgrund and elsewhere in the country, which receives food for distribution from the ‘Sammen’ project. These are good lowthreshold services that prevent disease and hospitalisation. Many, many more should have received such offers. The challenges of care are great, as we have heard here today. But it is a challenge we are proud to face. The fact that we're still getting older is a quality indicator of our society. People get older, many are sick, but many still have quality of life and joy. WHO defines health as a state of full physical, mental and social well-being and not just the absence of sickness or weakness, which is important to include in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1037	There was no lack of promises in relation to dental health during the election campaign. SV promised that no one would pay more than NOK 2 500 at the dentist, and the centre party promised better dental treatment. The party leadership in the Workers' Party suffered defeat at the national meeting, and dental health was to be part of the rest of the health system. We heard one thing after another about groups that were going to get publicly funded dental treatment only the red-green ones still got government power. Then came Soria Moria II, and the beautiful promises were boiled down to some goals. It's a little strange that three agreed parties are able to negotiate away what they agree on. Understand the one who can. When the state budget came, many were disappointed. It was simply toothless, and it revealed that many red-greens had gaped too high and took their mouths too full. For the Advancement Party, the teeth have always been part of the body, and we know that many heart and lung diseases are associated with poor dental health. We know that only one of the three who gets luck care from the public has acceptable dental health. We know that the dental health of young people has deteriorated significantly lately. We know that the number of five-year-olds who have to drill has increased by 10 pst. in the course of a five-year period, and the number of young children requiring dental treatment in anesthesia has increased. Hundreds of young children in Norway have rotten teeth pulled or operated every year. Some of these cases may simply result in care failure. The dental service is obliged to report to child protection if it is suspected that poor dental health is due to care failure, but a study from the University of Oslo shows that this is happening to a small extent. I am therefore pleased that we now have a unanimous increase in the proposal of the Progress Party to ensure that good practices are established in the public dentistry, so that suspicion of care failure is reported to child protection. For the elderly in institutions and children and young people, public responsibility today. We know that up to 300,000 drops a dentist because of dental fright or for financial reasons. Wasn't anyone here talking about equalizing social differences and combating poverty? In the Advance Party's alternative budget proposals, we follow our promises and prioritise them with low payability and those with high dental costs. The question is when the government parties come up with their proposals, or if this is just something the red-greens are talking about in an election campaign. In addition to hospitals, municipalities are the largest providers of welfare services in this country. Since the establishment of the Stoltenberg II government, it has given the impression of a willingness to invest in the municipalities, but according to the Statistical Central Bureau, the municipal economy has never been as bad as in 2008. The increase in the economic space of municipalities in the proposed budget for next year will be largely offset by cost growth, projected wage and price increases, increased pension costs and new tasks. It will therefore give municipalities little opportunity to increase service production or improve the quality of the basic welfare services. It will be possible to reduce the level of basic human resources in health and care services, eliminate unwanted part-time and equal opportunities for shifts and turns. A local government economy in balance requires a net operating surplus of 3 pst., and KS has made an estimate that the local government sector lacks DKK 2.5 billion to achieve this. I would like to refer to the budget of the Progress Party, where the subsidy to the municipalities is increased by DKK 4 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. The biggest failure made by the Government in relation to municipalities in the care sector is, in my opinion, related to so-called resource-intensive services. Without notice, the State funding share will be changed. There has been no discussion through the consultation mechanism or any other signaling of such changes, and they will also have retroactive effect for the whole of 2009. We're talking about a service offer the municipalities have budgeted with and actually given to the users, where the state changes the financial assumptions when there are less than three months left of the operating year. This is unacceptable. We're talking about the very weakest and most nurturing patients and users. Some of them need assistance from both two and three caregivers to do basic tasks such as standing up, showering, taking care of themselves, dressing and eating. Takes a starting point from a user who has a payroll related to 4 million. Thus, to keep the budgeted level for 2009, a reduction in the provision of services to this user by a total of EUR 900000 is necessary. What is this government really thinking? What are the basic needs of government parties that these patients and users will no longer be covered? In several cases, removing more than two years’ work around some of these users will lead to a fall in sick leave, as some of them may be very evasive. Stable and adequate manning is desirable in order to provide the necessary safety. Several of these users are now also at risk of losing important habilitation services due to changes. I think the government is now giving the municipal politicians of all parties a hopeless task when they're going to tell patients, users and relatives that they have to reduce the offer to the most nagging so dramatically. This is once again an example of the unworthy black player game between state and municipality, and I'm happy I'm a member of a party that goes in for 100 pst. state funding of care services. The parties that swear to municipal framework transfers, in my opinion, have a serious explanation problem when we see such results, which affect the weakest, the sickest and the disabled among us. I also hope that the government parties will be able to look again on proposal No. 11, where it is pointed out that the financing of resource-intensive services must be part of the consultation mechanism between the State and the municipality. There is a lot of good work done in the care of the elderly, but the daily lives of employees are characterized by little resources and fewer and fewer professionals compared to the tasks to be solved. Saving requirements and changes take the cancers that should have been used to provide treatment, care and care. The losers are the sick elderly, who in many cases experience unworthy conditions, lack of stimulation and lack of care. The medicine of the Workers' Party has not worked in the last ten years. Despite that, we now have more of the same promise. In the 1990s, the Workers' Party was supposed to secure all the single rooms in a nursing home, now promising the sick home for everyone who needs it. The Labour Party has always been good at promising, but their inability to implement and policy solutions is often a barrier to achieving good results for those concerned, namely the sick, nurturing elderly. If we are to succeed in providing adequate health care, the investment grant must be increased considerably, so that municipalities are not repressed to bet on nursing homes as the cheapest solution. We need to remove the ceiling and issue a commitment authorisation, so that no tight framework at the House Bank prevents the development of hospitals. It is recommended that a hospital coverage of 25 pst. to the number of people over 80 years of age, and then there are 17 000 sick places missing. We see that the municipalities are laying down hospitals and relieving them all over the country, and that nursing homes are being built in front of nursing homes. These tend to have lower crews than nursing homes, and often patients need to be moved from nursing homes to nursing homes when they become highly nurturing. Despite the fact that it is well known that such a movement process can have a very negative effect on the health status of the old disease, this is unfortunately the rule rather than the exception here in the country. I remember well when the nursing home concept was presented to the politicians in my municipality for the first time. It sounded provocative. Here you should stay in your own apartment, i.e. in your own home, and it should be arranged so that it was possible to use both a wheelchair and a lift. But the most important thing was that the manning should be adapted to the needs of the individual, so that it was possible to live out life in the nursing home. The calculation was that the municipality saved on costs for construction, would be used for more care staff. In this way, nursing homes should be equal to nursing homes, and it should be up to the individual to choose on which arena a desire to receive their care and care services. The nursing homes were built, and many elderly people sold their homes and used the money for care apartments. What we quickly saw, however, was that the municipality was unable to increase the number of staff when the care needs became high enough, and moving to a nursing home was the result. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has proposed the construction of 3 500 nursing homes and nursing homes in addition to the 2 500 government budgets. Another significant factor is that all these lucky days' care places are to be staffed. The Progress Party has invested SEK 1.5 billion in its alternative budget to increase the number of posts in the care of the elderly. This includes funds both for new jobs and for the removal of a large amount of unwanted part-time. However, the party involved is concerned that there is a need for far more than warm hands in the care of the elderly. The old sick tend to have a complex form of disease with many diagnoses. There is therefore a great need for sufficient competence to be able to observe and follow up the individual in such a way that early action is also taken here if the picture of the disease changes. We know that many old people are struggling with misnutrition at our institutions. We have noticed that Sweden has employed a person with nutritional competence in each municipality. It is believed that Swedish society can save 1 to 1.5 billion kroner on this measure, and a lot of human suffering can be prevented. The Progress Party believes this is a good idea, and we have made use of the means to start stepping up the nutritional competence of Norwegian municipalities. Quality assurance of sampling, testing and analysis at Norwegian nursing homes has been a particular concern of the undersigned in order to avoid misdiagnosis and unnecessary use of the specialist healthcare service. Through the offer from NOKLUS, municipalities are able to comply with the internal control regulation at this important point. Government parties strongly agree with the opposition that it is essential that all Norwegian nursing homes are offered participation in NOKLUS, but they do not have the 2.3 million. kr missing. I expect the Council of State to ensure that all hospitals will receive this offer in 2010 and that the Council of State will ensure that the missing funds will be allocated either from the Health Directorate, as it has done in the past, or otherwise. An overall committee in 2006 stated that habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major area of activity. Unfortunately, we have seen that this government is more concerned with ideology than about patients getting a good offer. The Party considers that private and public service providers should be treated in the same way. Policies must define the quality and scope of the welfare offer to be financed by the Community. Whoever is responsible for the execution must be of secondary importance as long as the requirements are met. We want the capacity of both public, private and non-profit organisations to be exploited so that we avoid unworthy health cows as far as possible. We see that the ideal organizations are even more vulnerable than private providers. In several European countries, authorities have taken the initiative to set up a social contract for the interaction between the public sector and the non-profit sector, which defines the objectives and principles of cooperation to be organised according to. The Progress Party believes it is high time that we also take this debate in Norway, and we therefore propose that a wide range of proposals for such a social contract be set up. Finally, I would like to mention that the Advance Party is concerned about putting in place a good palliative care through, among other things. establishment of hospice sites. In particular, it is important to focus on the offer of young people who are seriously ill and dying, so that not a regular home is the only public offer for them. Finally, a explanation of vote: in the case of proposal No. 22, the year in which it was amended from ‘2010’ to ‘2010’. In this way, the Progress Party will also support proposal No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1081	The government proposes in the budget to strengthen the hospital economy by just 1.4 billion kroner. This is in addition to the general price and salary adjustment and will provide growth in patient treatment. Three out of four dollars in the budget of the Ministry of Health and Health goes to health businesses. It is important that the funds are used specifically to meet the needs of patients. Offers shall be knowledge-based, as far as possible, and aid shall be first provided to the sick. New knowledge of medical treatment and good organisation of services shall be used to renew and change the service provision. Health enterprises manage almost DKK 100 billion. Good management and a robust organisational model are needed to ensure the implementation of health policy orders, to ensure professional quality, to ensure a good working environment and to manage the sum of actions to reduce and not increase social health differences in Norway. The Labour Party proposed in 2001 to organise hospitals and the reform received broad political support. It is worth noting that all Western countries are looking for an even better organisation of their specialist health services. This is due, inter alia, to: an accelerated knowledge development in medical research. Every year we can do more, and almost all progress is costly and requires staff to become further specialised. This leads to more and more demanding prioritisation. We believe that the business organisation has ensured that we can follow new research and offer advanced treatment to the population. There has been a need for significant conversion, for example with the collection of advanced cancer treatment and advanced myocardial infarction treatment in fewer hospitals. A modern health policy needs governance in its implementation. Health enterprise reform has given us this. The Soria Moria II platform therefore clearly states that the business model should be continued. During the previous ageing period, the model was improved following a policy assessment. A majority of the members of the Governing Board have now been elected on the basis of proposals from local and regional elected bodies. I note with concern that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, in a joint remark, propose to abolish the regional health companies. A revised alternative is not presented. This creates uncertainty. Many thousands of employees will ask: are we going to be reorganized again? It is expensive to lay down and build up, especially measured in wear and tear on the work environment. Well-documented reorganisations make sense. Ideologically motivated reorganisations produce many side effects. We've organized the hospitals regionally. Health North of Bodø is closer to reality in its part of the country than an administration in Oslo. It is permissible to keep a rough course and think at the same time. The specialist health service in Norway is not perfect. We can get better at preventing disease. This is a responsibility for the whole community, and the hospitals have to take their part. We can get a lot better at helping individuals get back to good life after sickness and injury. We can get better at making sure that those who need the most help get it first. Finally, the health service must be value-based. Law and regulation can regulate a lot, but there will always be situations in which good ethics has to control the choices. These include: good ethics to cooperate well and interact for the benefit of patients. Each person has a responsibility to do his or her part of the job and to help the next paragraph in the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1104	The health budget that is the starting point for the discussion in Stortinget today is nearly NOK 130 billion. We spent more public money per person. head than most other countries, and we have a health policy that aims to ensure that healthcare is accessible to all, regardless of the status and personal economy. Grandma had in her time a slogan that she often entered into conversations: when we're healthy, we have so many wishes, when we're sick, we only have one. There was a statement that came out of experience about a health care system that was then largely non-existent in small, roadless settlements north. It was often the case that people — young and old alike — died of banal, harmless diseases, which could easily have been treated. Today, ambulance helicopters light up and fly to a serious sick or injured person in a short time. We have access to doctors and other health professionals, even when less dangerous suffering affects us. In other words, there has been a fantastic development in the health field since Grandma's time. At the same time, we see a more alarming development. More people than before experience mental illness, more are struggling with major drug problems, and we see an increase in diseases such as diabetes, coal and other lifestyle disorders. What is most alarming is that the difference between those who are affected by such diseases and those who are not, often goes along social, educational and economic lines. In other words, we can experience that our society is evolving in a direction where good health becomes a bonus primarily for those who have the most from before. We have to put everything in place to prevent that from happening. St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the Interaction Reform, as presented by the Government in June, is at the heart of this issue, and the budget we are discussing today is taking some action to point out the direction. This is a reform that states that health services must be provided as closely as possible to people living, that the focus must be on health promotion and prevention activities and, at the other end of the action chain, on rehabilitation, which is so important to bring people back to their normal, or almost normal, level of function after illness or injury. If we are to succeed, we also need to think about new ways of training health professionals, and different ways of working together between municipalities and between levels of health care. The government has committed 270 million in the 2010 budget. kr for preventive cooperation in municipalities and nearly 100 million. kr to local medical activities and to intercommunal cooperation in the field of health. It is a beginning of what is focused on in the Cooperation Reform and, as most people gradually acknowledge, that health care resources cannot only be there when disease is a fact; we have to state that communities and municipalities are working on health plans that focus on what is health-promoting and life-promoting. Then we also need to train health professionals as, among other things. are specialised in general medicine and social medicine, and we need people with other complementary professional skills. The government presented its national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the context of the 2008 budget. There is a strategy based on the recognition that this field has had neither the position nor the resources it deserves. The health service has had a poor overview of the rehabilitation and habilitation field and of fragmented knowledge of methods and results. The strategy sets out a run to change this towards 2011. Rehabilitation shall be an integral part of most individual patient courses and shall take place at all levels of healthcare – in municipalities, in treatment hospitals, in learning and mastering centres and in their own specialised rehabilitation and training institutions. It is not right for the representative, Sjöli, to say, because it is actually the case that more people are being offered rehabilitation today. The growth in health enterprises’ purchases of places in private rehabilitation institutions was 18 p.m. from 2006 to 2008. Rehabilitation is also taking place in municipalities and hospitals. Then it is important that users are at the heart of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation strategy, and dialogue between user organisations and the Ministry of Health and Welfare should continue. St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009, the interaction message, points to the importance of thinking new and different around health and responses. The time has come to look at areas so far in the shadow. We will have strong searchlights for prevention and rehabilitation when Stortinget will deal with the message in the coming spring session. Next year's budget builds up under this. We're going to have the opposition with us in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1125	The value base for Norwegian drug policy is the concern of individuals and the capacity of society for solidarity. Every day, we see individuals here in Oslo and other big cities struggling with major drug problems who do not have a worthwhile life. It is absolutely necessary to do something to help the most vulnerable drug addicts. The suffering is great, and we do not reach people well enough with today's service. Then it must be allowed to think both loudly and newly. The government’s drug policy has as its overall objective the reduction of the negative impacts of drug use on individuals and on society. The aim of the drug prevention policy is to limit harmful use of drugs, to postpone drug use and to capture vulnerable groups and individuals at an early stage. Prevention should help to prevent drug problems from emerging and developing. The overall objective of services for those with drug problems is to ensure better and more accessible treatment services. People at risk of developing, or having developed, drug problems often need complex services over a long period of time. Many have developed somatic and mental disorders in addition to their drug problems. In that case, it is important not only to offer quantitatively but also to offer qualitatively over a longer period of time. There is no doubt that there is a clear link between the price, availability and use of alcohol. We know how much damage alcohol can cause, and we know that, among other things, limited sales and gift periods contribute to the reduction of consumption. It is therefore with great excitement that I look forward to how the various parties will vote when the proposal to restrict the maximum time allowed by the alcohol law for the donation of alcohol is promoted for Stortinget in the spring of 2010. Today, municipalities have a comprehensive responsibility for services for those with drug problems. At present, there are considerable variations in the organisation of drug-related work in municipalities. These tasks may be added to different units, such as the local Nav Office, social service outside the Nav Office, mental health unit, drug services, outreach and home-based services or activative activities. This does not promote interaction in a good way. The total budget for the Ministry of Health and Welfare is DKK 128.7 billion. The hospital economy is strengthened by 1,452 million. SEK, including SEK 42 million. kr from the rolling stock. The noise field will be reinforced by 150 million. SEK, Care plan 2015 is followed up by 320 million. kr, and the cooperation reform is strengthened by 372 million. kr. In addition, additional grants are granted to non-governmental organisations and private foundations. Good work is done in many, many areas from voluntary organisations. We also have a number of lowthreshold services funded by the Health and Social Directorate. Although the government has done and still does a lot, there is a need to strengthen the efforts in this area. Including the 2010 state budget, this government has increased the spending on the drugs field by 835 million. kr. The government has launched a number of measures. In the autumn of 2007, the Roadmap of the drug field was presented. The plan has 147 measures in the fields of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, research and the building of competences, and almost all have been followed up over the years. Drug policy requires cross-departmental cooperation. Prevention is important to prevent drug problems from occurring. Rus must therefore have an important place in the cooperation reform. The waiting time for drug treatment needs to be reduced, treatment and measures should be differentiated, and those related to drug addicts need to be followed up even better than is the case today. There is currently no clear answer to which measures are better than others. The focus must be that one across party boundaries, departments, departments, non-profit institutions, municipalities and counties finds solutions and offers that prevent recruitment to the drug environment and that can provide drug users with good and lasting help.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1146	Over the last few years, there has been a great job in mental health both at specialist level and outside the municipalities. The escalation plan has resulted in more than twice as many people getting help today. A new waiting list system for children and young people under 23 years of age results in 88 pst. its reference is assessed within the 10-day time limit. That's good, but there's still a lot of people on the waiting list for a long time. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Health has put in place a comprehensive work on waiting lists, focusing on finding good measures to reduce waiting time. A few days ago, we were shaken by a killing that was associated with the psychiatry. The father's struggle to get the son help affects us all. It's hard to understand that we can't prevent that from happening. Of course, there are many reasons for these tragic events, and we can never be sure that this will not happen again. Fortunately, not many killings in Norway are committed by mentally ill people, but it is important that we learn from what we can do differently. The family is a resource that professionals need to listen to. The relatives know their best and see how the sick person is doing. When a patient becomes acutely mentally ill, he must be treated as quickly as someone who becomes acutely somatically ill. It must always be that acute situations are a priority. The escalation plan provides for the development of mental health services. We've come a long way, but we're not in the goal. In addition to the funds provided within the escalation plan, municipalities have also used free resources as self-help. That's why it becomes completely unreasonable when we hear about municipalities that want to cut off the offers within the psychiatry. I trust that what has emerged in the media is a draft budget, and that local politicians are conscious of their responsibilities and protect the measures that are built up when they are to adopt the municipal budget by Christmas. It has also appeared in the media that some health businesses should have proposed to balance their accounts within the context of this strategy with funds that should have been used in the psychiatry. It is clearly a breach of the escalation plan, and I take it as a matter of course that the companies involved are correcting it, and that the funds are being returned to the psychiatry. Lookups like this always create discussion about whether there should be earmarked or free means, but if local democracy is to survive, not all detail can be controlled from this room. That for a period of time we mark with earmarks to show an escalation is okay. The entire escalation plan has been a deliberate effort that has been a broad political consensus both here at Stortinget and outside the municipalities. I am confident that, even though the funds have now been put into the framework, municipal politicians will follow up on this important work. Over 10 years, the escalation plan has been followed, and the evaluation report shows that we have achieved the quantitative objectives of the plan. That's great, and that gives us a good basis for working on the qualitative objectives. The size showed through St.prp. No 63 for 1997–1998, on the escalation plan for mental health, that the focus should be directed more towards psychiatry. We've done that, but we have to work on getting into a change attitude where mental illness is equated with somatic illness. It must be as legitimate to say that you have a mental disorder as saying that you have a heart condition. That's why I'm glad we still have a stake in psychiatry, where the increase in psychiatry is greater than in somatics, and that there's an extra focus on children and young people. The interaction reform focuses on interaction and prevention. There are important areas of psychiatry. We see today that the problem is increasingly a mixture of psychiatry and intoxication. It presents challenges in inter-operation between several disciplines and not least within the different levels of health care. These are the moments we have to take with us when we're going to continue working on the Cooperation Reform. It must be a goal to get more treatment on the community health service and use of outpatient teams where the patient can get help without being hospitalised. The fact that funding has been allocated for both 2009 and 2010 to recruit psychologists in municipalities will contribute to an expanded range of services. Last week, we learned that 36 out of 40 people in custody had mental disorders, and we know that many prisoners are also struggling with mental illness and drug abuse. That is why I am pleased that in this budget we have had the opportunity to support good actions such as WayBack, Music in Prison and Freedom, and others that carry out a unique work for the mental health and drug problems of the prisoners. The area where we might be most likely to get a health benefit is prevention of mental illness. Then it's important that the individual gets caught up quickly. In this area, there is positive cooperation between the public and private sectors. Many private and non-profit actors contribute to very good health work in psychiatry. They need predictability with the possibility of contracts over a certain period of time, and it opens the law on public acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1177	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1180	I heard a hospital director tell you about when a hospital started operating hip replacements. A newspaper made a big deal: long queues for hip replacement surgery. The year before, there were no waiting cows, but no hip replacement operations either. The waiting times at the Norwegian hospital have to go down. Too many people have to wait too long. But behind the large averages, different patient groups are hidden. How long do each one wait, and what are the variations within the groups? The government has cleared up a lot of hospital economy: large pension costs, growth in patient treatment is financed from 2008, the funds for investment have increased, and loans in private banks have been converted into operating credits in Norway’s Bank. In the 2010 bust, the Magnussen Committee is being followed up, and there will be fair distribution between the regions. So a lot is done, but a lot remains. An important area where we have the opportunity to do more is in terms of technologies that can provide knowledge, information flows and management tools. In 2006, the Storting decided that the Norwegian patient register should become a so-called identity register, and the regulation entered into force on 15 April this year. I hope the register will be a useful management tool for example. ensure that the sickest patients are given priority first. Today, the Budget adopts a good budget, but a budgetary decision is also the beginning of a work to ensure that the budget is used as appropriately as possible. For patients who have had a serious diagnosis, it is important to feel secure that they get the best treatment available. Although there are only complete health records, such as the Cancer and Norwegian Patient Register, that can give us the full overview, we already know a lot about what good task distribution means. Within e.g. Some cancer treatment is known to be better for those patients treated by surgeons with good experience. But in Norway, there are many hospitals that perform surgery on fewer than ten patients per year with the same cancer. I remember that then State Council, Sylvia Brustad, went out hard in the autumn of 2007 and used it as an example that there were 55 hospitals in Norway that operated colon cancer. The best practice in patients suggests that some tasks should be decentralised, while others be centralised. While elderly patients and chroniclers have everything to do with being treated closely where they live, cancer patients can travel to other hospitals if they have better predictions. I believe at least that it is important that the tools that we ourselves have adopted are allowed to work, and that as politicians we are open to taking the consequences of the information that they provide. Sometimes it would probably be easier to be a politician if the tools gave us a different information from what they do, but the best of the patients has to be on the ground anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1197	In the right time, we started working on the challenges of interaction, and the solutions we proposed should provide better help to patients and better use of resources in the sector. We proposed measures in 2005. Former Health Minister Sylvia Brustad put it on hold for three years, before Bjarne Håkon Hanssen resumed many of the proposals and relaunched it as his major new reform. Government parties talk a lot about interactions between health institutions. They talk about better and more effective treatment, but the measures drown, unfortunately, in the flood of great words and visions. Because the results basically speak for themselves. Health cows are increasing, health business deficits are increasing, and we are constantly falling on the international rankings regarding the use of health crowns we grant. To the right, it is important that we can help and treat the patients where they live. We want to move less on the patients and more on the doctors. In the 2009 budget, the Right proposed spending 400 million. kr more on health care where people live, among others. by strengthening local hospitals and providing more outreach health services. Not surprisingly, this was saddened by the red-greens, and in other words, they did the opposite of what they said at the time – and so far also here in the hall today. In the 2010 budget, the Right again wants to make words into action. So we're proposing $300 million. for measures to provide treatment where patients live. These are earmarked substances that are within the framework of increased activity, and there will therefore be no cutbacks in the rest of the health service. In Health Fonna, there is currently no offer for patients with psoriasis who are dependent on light treatment. In my own municipality of residence, Odda, there are several patients who need to get on the bus to Bergen to get the treatment they depend on. A light treatment is performed from one to three times a week and varies in duration, from one minute to 30 minutes. You can ask yourself, ‘Would it not be a better health policy if you actually had a light treatment offer by, for example, The hospital in Odda? This would make it possible to avoid a patient from Odda getting on the bus, up to several times a week, and take a bus trip of three and a half hours per. the route to a treatment that may last one minute. With the earmarked funds we put into the budget, it will actually be possible to develop them by, for example. Hospital in Odda, and provide a better health service where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1208	Politics is about individuals – at least the Right Policy does. I'm ashamed when I see how we treat those addicts in Norway. Many of them have a tough past. They have poor living conditions, mental problems, and few who care. Drug addicts are among those who experience the greatest increase in waiting time for necessary treatment. The waiting time has increased by almost two weeks only in the last two years. Three and a half months are actually the average waiting time, both for acute detoxification and treatment. In Health North, the waiting time is even longer, which you have to wait for four and a half months before you get to. In the worst case, the addict is no longer among us on the day when there is a place of free treatment. I would like to make it clear that the queue of addicts who need help has increased by 4,300 under the government of Stoltenberg. Is it only in the election campaign that the Labour Party should take care of the weak, under the motto ‘all are going along’? I would say that the government meets the addicts with a cold shoulder – not a warm community, as the government so often talks about. The right has earmarked funds for addicts in its alternative budget, and I am pleased about that, but I am surprised that the government parties have always voted against our proposals. Now the Council of State says that the management requirement should be clarified. What does that mean? How many addicts will be in line at the end of this year, and for how long does the Council of State expect them to wait? For those addicts who are addicted to addiction, it's not going to help you with great celebrations from the government. And then my question is, do the red-greens intend to do something concrete to improve the offer to this patient group? On the right, several agreements will be concluded with private operators with free capacity to enable patients to obtain faster help and greater freedom of choice. Many private drug treatment centres have been closed under the government of Stoltenberg, without the provision being strengthened accordingly under public authority. I wonder: Is it more important for the Government to take into account its ideological allergy to private treatment than to help the group of people sitting at the bottom of the table – if they are sitting at the table at all? Within the rehabilitation effort, the Right eartag will be 150 million. In addition to the Government's proposals, to ensure faster and better treatment for drug addicts and to provide better follow-up to their children. The earlier children of addicts get help, the greater the opportunity for them to master their lives. Rather than defying the lives of every citizen and overdoing people who are doing their own good, the government should use resources on those who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1225	We've had an escalation plan in mental health, and we're not on target. Several people have addressed this today. Also from the government parties we talk about that the quantity is far on the way, but not the quality. We need 2,700 adapted dwellings, and the waiting times are too long. Yesterday a young woman contacted me. She has problems with depression – not acutely ill, but in public, it's a year before she can get to a psychologist. If she can afford it, she's going to go to a private psychologist. That's the situation too many. There is a great lack of early diagnosis and prevention of mental health in our municipalities, and there is a poor interaction between first-line and second-line services. We have major challenges with double diagnosis, i.e. people who suffer from both mental illness and drug problems. Today there was a new OECD report, a health service survey. It says the following: ‘In one area, Norway is cutting among the weakest, and in the case of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, within 30 days of discharge. The OECD calculates redundancy as soon as it is scheduled to be unplanned and an indication of poor quality in the interaction between healthcare actors after the patient has been expelled from a psychiatric institution.’» In other words, we are definitely not in goal. Of course, we're going to have a conversion, I agree, from a professional point of view. I have to ask the Council of State one more time: have I understood correctly, that the Council of State accepts to spend less money – in the right way within the framework – on mental health, given that the number of patient treatments increases by 10 pst.? Why in the world have we had an escalating plan? So we're not in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1239	In the debate we have heard that we are not fulfilling our promises in the field of dentistry. I want to reassure those who are concerned about it. That's how big changes can't be arranged overnight – I think most people in this room know that. But I reassure you that the Workers' Party is on what we say in our programme, that the public should gradually take greater responsibility for dental care. We're going to work for that, and it's going to be taken into account how much each individual is going to pay for. It is well followed up in Soria Moria, and the Government will investigate how it is to be cared for. It's a big job, and there's a lot of solutions, and there's more solutions. But one thing is certain: we're going to work to meet our choices in that area. I want to say that the dental service has actually become much better under red-green control. We've phased in new groups, new weak groups, to balance social differences. For example, everyone at LAR has free dental services from the county, and drug users in municipal dorsal care also have free public dental services. We have now granted money for patient trials in relation to amalgam, which I know very many people are concerned about in terms of suffering they have had. We have increased education, and we now have, among other things, created 15 new places for dental nurses, which we in this room have been occupied with to be part of the dental care. The goal is 100, but 15 has come to the Hedmark, and that's very good. We're looking forward to the rest of it coming. Prison inmates get dental treatment. In the case of periodontite, the rules have now been amended so that those with severe plagues are covered more. So here it's going to be possible to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. We are phased in new, while at the same time we can work with our national meeting decisions. I want to make a little visit to my co-founder Per Arne Olsen, who with great strength reported that if all the capacity was used for private hospitals, all the cows would be gone. I think that sounds very offensive, but as far as I know, the private capacity is not a fixed and nailed size. It is adjusted according to demand — at least in the private market. So here's how much money you want to put in. The cookies that are shared are per person. today one size. If it increases, then get more offers, but that means we have to take from the cake that the public gets. And I'm not willing to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1248	The Minister of Health announced earlier today that she has been traveling a lot in Norway since she joined. I believe that she should also cost herself a round trip to some other countries here on the European continent. There are many countries where it is not health cows. In 1993, I was on a visit to the health care service in Paris. There was the principle that when the diagnosis was made and treatment was to be given, it was up to the patient to choose which hospital he would be treated for, or he could leave it to the doctor to make that decision. Cows, the chief of information at the hospital told us who was visiting, they had, but the last time they had, was when they received 500,000 wounded soldiers from the Battle of Somme in 1916. For hospitals in Norway, a patient is aggravating the hospital economy. In France, it's the other way around. In France and other countries, the health care system is partly financed. So treating patients is profitable for the hospital. The State pays for the patient treatment based on which diagnosis has been made, adjusted for any deviation during treatment. The funding model is the same, regardless of whether it is a public or a private hospital. And – as with most things that are economically profitable – it is done without waiting time. The patient is cured, satisfied and able to return to work. I noticed that the Minister of Health also warned against getting into a situation where there is no waiting time, as it would lead to significant overcapacity. What kind of human vision is that? She believes, as far as I understand, that it is better for people to walk around – or rather lie – and it hurts than that they are being treated. In this way, the Minister of Health believes that overcapacity in the healthcare system is the worst possible situation. For the Progress Party, it is different, we believe, that the patient should be in focus. Here is the greatest difference between the Progress Party and the Red-Greens in terms of health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1257	For 2010, hospital operating appropriations are strengthened by nearly SEK 1.5 billion in addition to price and salary growth. There will be a doubling of the budget of DKK 103 billion in the period 2002-2009. That's a lot of money. The more important it is to get the best health possible for each crown. Hospital expenses are pressed into the weather for many reasons. Interaction reform addresses some of them: changing the picture of disease with several older people, multiple chroniclers, lack of prevention and funding systems that do not invite enough to interact for the benefit of patients and communities. Some hospitals have expired, are heavily driven and with unnecessary operating costs at the expense of health money. The Hospital Buskerud in Drammen is one of them. Parts of the building stock are from 1887, built in the 1960s and 1970s, characterized by poor maintenance and do not meet the requirements of a modern hospital. That's the somatic part. Psychiatric department in Lier was built in 1926 and is in very poor condition. VG called it Little Murmansk in 2004. The rest of the psychiatry is scattered around the county, while research shows that 30–50 pst. of patients in somatic wards also need treatment for psychiatric illness, and vice versa. One of many examples: women, 60 years of age, admitted to manic psychosis, detoxification and a high level of care, known diabetes, heart disease, metabolic disease, urinary tract disease and neurological disorder. The need for extensive psychiatric and somatic medications and the coordination of assessments from a variety of specialities. Today, patients like her are transported back and forth between the two hospitals in an ambulance or taxi. It is hardly the best – and not the cheapest – treatment option. The need for a new hospital has been known for almost 30 years. The plan was a new, co-located hospital in good time before the health reform in 2002. But it didn't work that way. Since then, the matter has been on a desert hike, until now. The 2010 budget is set at up to 250 million. kr in investment loans for the purchase of land on Gullhaug i Lier. The majority of the parties in the committee say that this is a good way to make visible that a new hospital at Gullhaug is a project of political support, and we in Buskerud are incredibly grateful for that. It is a clear signal to Health South-East to get a purchase agreement in place without undue delay. The Committee is committed to ensuring that this does not delay other planned projects in the region. It's not supposed to be. The rapporteurs concerned have good dialogue. The previous Minister of Health said that start-up in Eastfold should take place before start-up in Buskerud. It's on the side. So finally, this isn't just about Buskerud. A new appropriate hospital in Buskerud is also the best starting point for the Minister of Health to achieve a successful interaction reform in a popular part of the Eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1270	Fortunately, today’s debate has consistently focused on both the government parties and the opposition to the drug addicts that we have. It's an area where there's clearly a need for an obliging escalation plan, just like you've had it within the psychiatry. There will also be a proposal on that in the Grand Duchy today, which unfortunately seems to be being voted down. But what remains unclear after this debate is whether it is the Government's proposal for the government budget and the proposition for a progressive plan that is in force, or whether there is the wording of the government parties in the vote. The proposition on page 112 says: ‘The experience gained from the Roadmap for Mental Health shows that it was necessary to set concrete objectives for the dimensioning, organisation and structure of services. Based on Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. [[2008-2009]] No 47 Obviously, it is not possible to say that you have plans to make a stepping-up plan similar to what you have had in mental health. In the setting of the State budget on page 14 the government parties write in their specific comments: ‘The majority are concerned that the drug field will be further strengthened in the years following the end of the escalation plan in 2010, for example through a new escalation plan.’ This group does not need to remain unclear whether or not a escalation plan will be in place. In any case, I have to ask the Minister of Health to clarify whether the Government has plans, as a follow-up to the Stortinge's treatment of the Interaction Reform, to come up with its own plan for the planned development of the overall service provision for this group, according to the model of the Roadmap for mental health as stated in the Proposition – or whether there is a significant weakening of the wording of the government parties in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1287	As for the situation of the Feiring Clinic, I did not get an answer to my question in the line change with the Council of State about what she would do to ensure professional economic and sound operation in the future. The only thing she could do was say that she would come back to Stortinget with one thing. But now it's soon 2010, and I'm going to believe the Feiring Clinic, like all other health institutions, needs to know what kind of financial framework they need to relate to in 2010. But since the Council of State cannot respond specifically to what she wants to contribute, can she at least answer when she intends to come back to Stortinget with a matter? Obviously, it is not going to be in 2009, and the question is how far out in 2010 the Stortinget, not to mention the 250 employees at the Feiringklinik, the patient organisations and the owners have to wait. This, I think, is an unsustainable situation. Can the Council of State here and now explain to the Stortinget why they have run from their promises for the 2009 Celebration Clinic? There were promises such as: was given here in Stortinget. Of course, I assume that Hanssen's promises were on behalf of the Government, that he was not drifting around like a private-practicing state council. I noticed that the representative of Health in his statement was very concerned and deeply concerned that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the budget have proposed to abolish the regional health companies. For information, I can say that the Right has never supported the creation of regional health companies, and we also have in our programme that we want them closed. But to this turmoil and deep concern at Health I record two things: first, that he and the Workers' Party are very pleased with the situation in Health-Norway today – and they are probably the only ones soon – and second, that he is already concerned that the bourgeois parties will win the elections in 2011, since he is now so concerned about the Right's proposal to shut down regional health companies. According to the polls to judge, two months after the election, his concern may not be real. For the patient, on the other hand, it will mean more and better health services. Norway is the world champion in spending money on health, but scores increasingly poorly in surveys on what we get out of resources. We believe that this requires better organisation, less bureaucracy, fewer directors and more health workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1298	We agree that we are facing challenges in terms of waiting time, mental health, drugs, and probably more. We agree that we need to invest more in habilitation and rehabilitation. But once again, I want to remind you that we have never used more than we use today in these areas. So if we add up what we've been using since 2005 just in the area of mental health, in the area of drugs, and what we've increased in the area of patient treatment, it's going to be $12 billion. Then I have not mentioned the care sector and the municipal sector and the free income there. I am also aware that much of the free revenue has gone to more than just expanding the offer. There have also been things we have been talking about here today, pension costs etc. But most of it has gone to boost well-being. Sonja Sjøli said that mental health should not become a balancing item. There will never be any balancing mail as long as we have something we should have said! Psychiatric health is a maritime priority. I recall that since 2005, the appropriations have been increased by DKK 2.5 billion. In the drug field, regional health enterprises will carry out acquisition processes against private individuals during 2010 and 2011 that will involve the purchase of services of more than DKK 1 billion. The right does not really have any more money than we do, but they choose to spend the entire growth of patient treatment earmarked for habilitation/rehabilitation, and for interaction measures. This means that with such a policy, probably longer queues will become for all other patient groups. Everything would suggest that, especially because the Right Seas say that this growth is really not growth. If one is not even in the crop, there must be a decline and longer queues. But most interestingly, I think it's asking where the Progress Party is getting its money from. If the Progress Party were to appear with sympathetic features in terms of having exposures related to the health sector, I would remind you that the Progress Party is nine times so concerned with tax relief, for that is about. 18 billion kroner The Progress Party wants in tax bills, while there's 2 billion dollars more they want to add to the hospitals. Where do they get the money? For the sake of order, I would like to remind you of: aid 9 billion SEK, culture 1 billion DKK, immigration/asyl 5.3 billion SEK, daily allowance and social assistance over 8 billion SEK, agriculture, county councils dealing with high school, etc. It's the back of the medal that the Advance Party is trying to shine so beautifully today. At least it's a policy to get bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1310	Many speakers have commented today on prevention and public health work. Disease prevention is both easy and difficult. Outcomes of prevention are both rapid and slow. We will together create good lives for the individual and the relatives. So let's start with what we know a lot about, and that's easy to do. The World Health Organisation has calculated the proportion of lost, healthy years of life due to alcohol, drugs and tobacco. In Western Europe, tobacco is the main factor, while alcohol is responsible for 12 pst. of lost, healthy years of life. Narcotics account for approx. 1 pst. of lost, healthy years of life. There are sliding transitions between low alcohol use, grey zones and abuse. We know that a tenth of the population accounts for half of the total alcohol consumption. This means that approx. 300,000 people in Norway, converted, drink two and a half bottles of spirits or nine bottles of wine per year. week. Prevention in the field is both simple and difficult – simply because we have a prescription: it helps that the product has limited availability, and it helps to value the product highly – also at price. However, prevention in the field is also difficult, because we believe that political grips on availability and price are unpopular. In the choice between drinking and being real brave, there is no doubt that a courageous alcohol policy will save many lives and give better days for children and other relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1321	About half of the adult Norwegian population will suffer from a mental illness during life, and about half of it. 1/3 in one year. The roadmap for mental health shows that over the ten years that have passed, we have increased the appropriations by approx. $8.9 billion when you see municipal services and specialist health services together. It is not that when you go from earmarked funds to framework funding, transfers to mental health are weakened. On the contrary, the Council of State has stated in the mission documents that mental health should have a higher growth than somatic services. When I heard the post of the representative, Sjøli, I had a feeling that the representative spoke more to the gallery than to what is the situation in Norwegian health policy: in Trøndelag, we are talking about the valley of Sjøli, and that is in a way a good description, I think. The representative Bent Höie pointed out that Norway is second place in the world in terms of resource use in the specialist health service, but at the same time that we are not at the top in terms of quality. Then my question is, what is the recipe for better health care? Is there more money into healthcare? Or is it more quality and better organisation? Since the introduction of the health enterprise reform, the operating level of specialist health services has increased from 53 billion to over 100 billion kroner. Investments in construction and equipment have increased dramatically. We have local and regional anchoring in the boards, which contributes to good competence, and to the closeness of the electorate to the processes. When the Right and Advance Party now say that today we have one for top-heavy healthcare in Norway, is the answer to put down regional health businesses and collect everything into a central unit? Or is it that the parties now want to return the specialist health service, the hospitals, to the county councils again?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1336	I take the floor because there is a strong criticism of the government party's commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation. I agree with the opposition that this is an important field, but the 2010 draft budget facilitates a general increase in activity in the specialist services of about 1.3 pst. Increases apply to all patient groups, including rehabilitation. For example, the proposal to fully finance the distribution of income in 2010 provides: Health West provides a good basis for further strengthening the provision of rehabilitation. The follow-up to the Cooperation Reform will have a major impact on the habilitation and rehabilitation field. In order to achieve good rehabilitation, good, holistic services are important. When the purchase of private training and rehabilitation institutions is involved, the proceeds are increased from 1 020 million. SEK in 2006 to SEK 1 139 million. kr in 2009. An agreement has also been made for the purchase of services from private rehabilitation institutions through the Raskare scheme. To Justice's criticism. I think it's important to point out that the Right in its alternative budget does not have any new, fresh means of rehabilitation or rehabilitation. The right hand side has an earmark of 585 million. kr of the red-green licensing within the framework of increased activity in regional health businesses and recycles this as an increase in bet. So there's also 300 million. kr more for interaction and for decentralised services. On a health budget of $18 billion plus a right of only $140 million. kr in clean, fresh money. The way the Right in several areas of the health field has come up to their extra bets, actually reminds me of the story of the New Testament where one with two small fish and five small breads was able to feed 5,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1347	First, I would like to thank you for a lot of good input into the debate, although I must say that I have been sitting and wondering that the UN has recently sent Norway to the world's best country to live in. I think maybe someone who had come in here wouldn't have come up with that idea. I understand that the opposition has to use big words, but I think it's important that what the opposition says is right. Then maybe I can start with the representative, Sjøli, who says that the government has reduced the priority of rehabilitation. That's not right. We haven't downgraded rehabilitation in this period. We have a session. So it's like you want to get to a better rehabilitation. But that is actually one of the main reasons why the Government has presented the Communication on the Cooperation Reform and the work to be done in that context. Then I want to show that some municipalities have done very well on this front, among other things. Trondheim, who has built a health centre – where you can stay after having stayed in, for example. specialist health services – with good rehabilitation services for the population there. As far as I know, they have two houses with that offer. Several such houses must be built in the municipalities. But it's always hard to wait for something, so we have to try to do the best we can in the area of rehabilitation while we're turning into the interaction reform. Also in some health regions there is a lack of services, especially in the Health West. Here, there is a challenge in building up offers for people living in this region. Then it has been said by the Progress Party that the local economy has never been so bad. That's not right. I'm the first to say that the municipalities have many tasks, but it's not that the local economy has never been as bad as in this period. I would also like to say that when we apply, when we are done with a plan and the assumption has been that the transfers to the municipalities should be included in the framework, it is a little strange that you do not trust that the municipalities can give priority. I'm the first to say that we don't accept a cut in the supply of mental health, but it's just as full that we have to trust the municipalities to follow up their work. To Nävdal-Bolstad: health business deficits have not increased. In fact, the record deficits were in 2003 and 2004. Since 2006, we have gone the right way, and fortunately, we are now in a situation where we are close to balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1362	Even though the Council of State has just been on the pulpit, I hope she can draw again, because I have a couple-three specific questions for her. I asked a similar question during the financial debate – it concerns Aker Hospital. I know that a question has been asked to the Council of State in the past – a question that she did not answer. A cross-political oslobenk has argued that the operation of the Aker hospital is continuing. Absolutely all parties – including the Workers' Party – want it. That's what patients want, and that's what employees want. If you move the operation from Aker Hospital, you also remove a lot of the expertise available within a number of fields at this hospital. The council says she'll wait for the process, and see what happens. But that's the process now happening, there's now the health expertise at Aker Hospital is getting away from the hospital, because Health South-East is giving signals that the operation there is not going to be continued. It is not useful to wait for a process at the same time as the expert applies to other hospitals — and to believe that a switch can then be turned on and the expertise restored. That's not how it works, and I think the Council of State is aware of that. That is why this should concern the Council of States. The political signals must come before the decision – and not afterwards, after it has been taken. All the other changes made in the capital area in the case of hospitals depend on the extent to which the operation in Aker hospital is continued. The political signals must come now, not in January or February – or when appropriate to the Government. The concrete questions to the Council of State are: If Health South-East decides to shut down Aker Hospital, will the Government review that decision and continue the operation at Aker Hospital – in line with the wish of workers' party politicians, centre party politicians and SV politicians in the capital area – or will it not? Will the red-greens continue their political rhetoric on maintenance, which in political reality means closure? What does the Council of State even mean about the operation of Aker Hospital? It is possible to have an independent opinion – or is she completely meaningless in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1373	Sonja Irene Sjøli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1376	I record that the representative Hagebakken promises that the mental health service will not be reduced. That means we keep the offer in Akershus – also the 18 places at Elvestad in Nes. The Council of State believes that the opposition uses large words in terms of the offer of rehabilitation. This means, however, that the Council of State believes that the 50 patient organisations and rehabilitation institutions are untrue – they are the ones who experience what we are really saying. I cannot interpret the Council of State in any other way. I also record that the Council of State does not respond to my questions about mental health and the planned escalation in Akershus — nor about the situation at the Feiringklinik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1385	Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1388	I want to say -- very briefly -- something about retirement and the ideal institutions. The funds allocated to increased pension costs here have been proposed for the regional health enterprises according to the criteria set out in the Magnussen Committee. My recommendation to the Government and the Council of State is to ensure that the funds come directly to those institutions that receive increased pension costs. I have understood on the government parties that one is not allowed to use these funds for anything else, and that they are to be withdrawn. At least they have to be able to go to those who need it. Finally, I understand it this way, and I find that the Council of State accepts to spend less money in mental health, in the specialist health service, where with the 10 pst.'s it means patient treatment. And if you spend less money, it's okay. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1395	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1398	First, I would recommend the Council of State to take the word again and choose to answer opposition questions – instead of trying to refute what has been raised in opposition posts. So to some attacks from the Workers' Party on the Right's Alternative Budget. It is quite right that the Right chooses to give priority to increases in specialist health services for those groups from which we believe are already underprioritised — especially in the areas of rehabilitation and drug use — and to improve interaction in services. But to assume that this means that health cows will grow is wrong. The right is now being accused of spending too little money, and we're being accused of spending too much money. The representative Asphjell asked the question about more money was the solution. No, the solution is to do things in other ways. And how the Right has intended to solve this differently from what the Government has proposed, I have explained in my post, in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1406	It was in so far as the representative Hagebakken made me take the floor after the sink, or the claim, that the representative came along. I'll try to spend some time on Mr. Hagebakken's posts. As the Hagebakken correctly said, we have never spent more money in the health budget, and it is likely that every health minister – even after the current one – will be able to say, because developments in society in general mean that money consumption is increasing, year by year. But what should concern the representative Hagebakken is what we get back for the money we spend. Because it is clear that when we say that we have never spent more money, it is an ominous signal that waiting lists are increasing, that waiting times are increasing, and that the number of drug users waiting for treatment is increasing. There are almost 4,500 people in line waiting for vital treatment to get out of the drug scene. In addition, when the escalation plan is completed and responsibility is transferred to individual health businesses – not least to municipalities – it has begun to be cut. In fact, it has begun to cut within the psychiatry before achieving the target according to the escalation plan. There is no target for the number of psychiatrists, there is no target for the number of psychologists in the municipalities, and there is no target for treatment places. Then it is strange that you first close the escalation plan and also accept that the municipalities can start tightening up and reducing. It's a problem. So to treat patients in hospitals. It is clear that the incentive to treat more patients has been completely removed, because the Government, through the conversion of input-driven funding and basic funding, makes each patient in that country entering a hospital a cost item, rather than a source of income, as it is. in France, to which the representative Peter N. Myhre referred. We could even read today, related to a survey carried out in the Norwegian Health Service, that Norway is at the top in terms of the number of employees, i.e. hospital health professionals. Yes, we're also the top in terms of the use of health crowns per person. the population. Then it's incredible that we can't solve more of the problems that are actually out there. And that's what the government has to take over. What's the problem is not the doctors. What is the problem is also not other health professionals in hospitals. There is also no lack of treatment options. But the lack is of leadership, and the top leader is in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1419	The President is in doubt as to whether the expression 'rushe hell' is a good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1422	First, just a note on the Celebration Clinic. I've told you I'll brief you on that situation later. We have said that the Fairing Clinic has done an important job, they do an important job, and that Health South-East has an agreement with the Fairing Clinic – and will also have it. I will come back to the matter, as I have also said before. So to Tybring-Gjedde, because he made me take the word now. With regard to Oslo and the hospital offer to the citizens of Oslo, I would like to maintain what I said when Tybring-Gjedde was not in the room, namely that the people of Oslo are the ones in this country who have the most remote hospital offer. It was a clear premise when we merged Health South and Health East, that we should look at coordination of hospital services in Oslo in order to get better effect and better use of the offer. It's also based on that you can't have everything everywhere. As part of this, Oslo University Hospital was established on 1 January this year. Oslo University Hospital therefore consists of the former health companies Aker University Hospital, Ullevål University Hospital and the Rikshospitalet. They provide local hospital services to the population of Oslo and Follo, as well as more specialised services to the health region and the country. Oslo University Hospital has launched a project that has recommended a collection of local hospital services in a metropolitan hospital. These proposals have not been addressed by the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital, and therefore the report of the project has only the status of a case-by-case document. It would be a bit special if I, as the Council of State, were to intervene in a case-by-case preparatory document, when Health South-East has been given a clear mandate to administer coordination. In the case of Aker, I can't forge what's going to happen at last. I believe that this process must be carried out both with Health South-East and with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1435	I thought I would take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. It's been a fresh debate, and it's a great commitment. That makes me think we have good prognosis, to use that expression, when it comes to the interaction reform and what we're going to do together there -- as much as possible of us, I hope. We can agree on important, good, smart actions for the health care of the future, where municipalities will have a greater and more important role to play. The focus is that we have spent so much money, but still the problems are so big. We've got a little of that money, then! Now I almost have to repeat myself a little bit, but it's not an unknown phenomenon in the political world. A figure I haven't used yet is that since 2005, we have had 64 000 more stays at our hospitals. There are 100,000 more patients who have been treated, and we have a sharp increase in outpatient consultations as well. So it's not just that the queues are getting longer, we've got a lot of positive results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1444	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 884]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1461	This case concerns changes in the State budget for 2009. The reason why I take the floor is that there are proposals and comments from the minority that are significant. It is surprising to see that the government chooses to collect relatively small amounts of items that for those who receive this money, will have a very significant impact. On top. So 718, 21 for drug prevention, the government chooses to bring in 1.1 million. kr, which has not been disposed of in 2009, although everyone knows that there are applications for this item which far exceed the size of the item. This is also an item that Storting has been busy increasing in several rounds. The opposition suggests that these 1,1 million. kr is transferred to 2010 and used, inter alia. to the organisation Children of drug users and the beneficial project under the auspices of Actis. The utility project, directed by Actis, is going to meet here at the Stortinget tomorrow, and it's a fantastic project, which just shows that the treatment of people who are drug addicts gives positive results, and that it's fully possible to become drug-free. Unfortunately, this proposal will not have a majority, and the money goes into what we can call the big swallow. The same thing applies on the cap. 719 Item 70 on HIV prevention, where there is still 300000 kroner, which the government chooses to use for the large deposit, instead of having that money transferred to next year, which is completely possible. This is done in an area where one has adopted a new HIV prevention plan, which has in no way been followed up by appropriations. There are many good projects for which these 300,000 kroner could have been spent. Nevertheless, the government parties choose to stand in the line behind the government and are not even willing to make this change. It has to be put in the context of a previous case dealing with a budget of over NOK 100 billion, where the government parties did not manage to move on a single dollar. Otherwise in the setting, the opposition has also addressed the challenge related to the size of the Innst. S. 270 for 2007-2008 were granted 320 million. kr to cover the pension costs incurred by private health care institutions. In this case, the Government proposes that this money be distributed between health companies in line with the position of the Magnussen Committee and not in accordance with the Stortingen intention, namely that this money should go to the private institutions where the pension costs arose. This takes up the opposition in its comments, but unfortunately it does not become a majority. I hope that the Minister of Health, when you choose to distribute it in a different way, will at least ensure that regional health companies settle between themselves, so that the money reaches those who the Storting had in mind that the money was going to be made. If not, the Storting must follow this in a different and appropriate way. Then the opposition takes up the comments related to the Celebration Clinic again. I don't have to repeat that. There has been a lot of promise – little has been followed up. This is not done in this case either, unfortunately. With this, I'm addressing the proposal that the Right is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1483	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1486	The Ministry of Health and Welfare is proposing changes to the promises under some chapters of the 2009 State budget. The Committee's plurality, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party support the Government's proposal. In the case of measures to ensure continued use of the Feiring Clinic in 2010, we will refer to the plural note under this chapter in the 2010 budget position. When it comes to the principle of allocating the pledges to the pension costs of private institutions, we refer to our note on this in the budgetary position for 2010. The criticism that we don't change anything in the budget, I will refute. We've been working on the budget, and there are several ways to secure funds for the areas that we want to prioritise. When it comes to the changes that are happening here, we haven't seen that it's necessary to address this, but we're working on changes in next year's budget. It's a work we do all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1514	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 899]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1531	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 900]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1548	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 900]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1565	Torod Asphjell has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1568	My name is Jorodd, but my son's name is Torodd, and my father's name is Odd. Many people have wondered why my name is Jorodd. But it's as simple as my mother's name is Jorunn, and my father's name is Odd, and then it became Jorod. If they had got a girl, I probably would have been called Oddrun. As rapporteur for Prop. 20 L, i.e. the introduction of automatic credit card schemes and the establishment of necessary registers, I am pleased that there is an overall committee that is in line with the Government's proposal to make the necessary changes to the Law on Social Security, the Health and Special Health Services, so that we can introduce an automatic credit card system. Automatic free card arrangements will improve the rights of users and make the public sector much easier. Users will now refuse to collect receipts and submit their own requirements for a free card to Nav. In the first place, the scheme will cover the components of self-employment 1, which are expenditure on medical care, psychological assistance, important medicinal products, care articles and patient transportation. At the same time, the Government has announced that it will be considered to extend the scheme to include a later tranche 2. At the same time, the age limit for free health services under self-employment 1 is raised from 12 to 16 years, making it easier for young people to seek out doctors and psychologists if necessary. As more people will be guaranteed their rights under this scheme and by increasing the age limit from 12 to 16 years, reimbursement of the own-payment will result in a total savings of 155 million. kr for users of today’s healthcare system. The Committee has been made aware of the fact that, following the adoption of the proposal by the State Council on 16 October 2009, an incurrency has been discovered that the new §6c of the Health Register Act has not been proposed to be added to the list in Section 22 of the same law that deals with the right of access. The Committee therefore supports the following proposals: ‘Act 18 May 2001 No 24 on health records and the processing of health data, the second paragraph of Section 22 is replaced by the following: When health data is processed in accordance with Sections 5, 6c, 7 and 8, the data subject is entitled to information as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 21 in addition to the information referred to in the first paragraph of Section 21 in addition to the health data concerning the data subject being processed and the safety measures for the processing of the health data do not compromise safety as far as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1595	The president likes the name story of the Asphjell family, so she'll remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1598	I took the word to explain a note under item 2 of the setting, which refers to the payment for health care performed outpatiently by health professionals groups other than doctors. It is the three opposition parties in the Committee that have written the note. The reason I took the floor is that this is also related to the state budget. I addressed the matter in my first article on case No. 1, so I'm not going to repeat it. This concerns the amendment of the legislation on effort-driven financing in 2009 so that services provided by other healthcare professionals or doctors were included in the calculation basis. It was not about physiotherapists – they were not included. The reason was that in some hospitals, they get a direct genocide from Nav. So it's the way that this people's peace of mind is going to go through the state budget, and that's what we're worried about. That is why, at the end of the comment, we made a very soft and fine recommendation to the Government to consider the possibility of treating physiotherapists as other outpatient staff, i.e. with the possibility of entering the ISF system, and possibly being able to take part. That's how they're going to come under the same arrangement as the others. It is important that you then get a direct refund for the hospital. What you can see in the State budget is that the funds from the population are included in the framework evenly in addition to all regional health businesses. That's what we're very concerned about, that we can go out on a number of patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1605	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1622	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 902]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1639	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after submissions by the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1650	We've been through a turbulent year in many ways, we could say, on the labour market. We were told last autumn that we would go into a low economic period and a period of increased unemployment. We have also experienced this in a good number of industries, especially in the construction industry, which was perhaps the sector that was most hit first. We got an increase in unemployment over the winter of 2009 and until the summer of 2009. The highest registered unemployment rate for Nav, I know, was probably in July this year, when we had 78 409 completely unemployed. Then there has been a positive development from summer to today. Then the unemployment rates began to fall. By the end of October, we had an unemployment rate of 2.6 pst. At that time 68 283 were registered completely unemployed. It is also gratifying, as I have noticed, that the SSB's forecasts until 2011 track that we will have an unemployment stop with 12,000 fewer unemployed than previously estimated. I also register that in another matter that we have to deal with today, Prop. 42 S, the government has reduced the appropriations to $800 million. kr for the current year. I want to quote what the Government itself writes in the proposition: «In the light of the developments in unemployment in the last months, payments to date this year and the outlook for the future labour market, payments for day-to-day pay will be lower than previously assumed.» The party of progress thinks it is good, thinks it is positive, and has therefore also taken it on board in its alternative budget. The signals we've been given that we're going to have a reduced leave of absence, we've laid the foundation when we've also made our policy. In addition, we believe in a more flexible labour market policy, with a better labour market, with lower taxes and taxes. It will make it easier for companies to keep the wheels going, which also means avoiding a series of bankruptcies, which we saw peaked this summer, which could lead to more people being at work. That policy we want to pursue in the future. I also think it will give lower leave in 2010. We have also had a debate in the autumn that has disturbed many, namely that from this year to next year we will have an increase in social security payments of over 30 billion kroner. There is one development that I believe most of us agree that cannot continue, and that action must be taken to slow down the development of social security payments. Only within the sick pay chapter, I record an increase from 2009 to 2010 of almost 5 billion kroner. In addition, it is also interesting to record sick leave statistics from 2001 until 2009, where there has actually been an increase among younger workers, i.e. the 16–29 age group, while in the 50–69 age group there has been a decrease of almost 10 pst. That's why I think we're going to have a thorough debate to see if there's any change in the relationship with the world of work, and how to bring down the unemployment figures for the younger group as well. Is it the case that the morals of older workers are higher, that is, that there is a higher level of sickness among them than among the younger? I also think it would have been possible to go further in view of the developments in the 2010 budget. I also record what the superior Sven Conradi at Sunnaa Hospital says to the Daily Newspaper today: «The day's sickness pay is a sleeping cushion». His experience is that many rather get sicker by going ill for up to a year. In this case, it is important for the Progress Party to start vocational rehabilitation at an early stage and no later than after 16 weeks. It is important that sick people who have not returned to work after two months, i.e. eight weeks, are sent to a specialist investigation, which the Progress Party has discussed earlier. It's important that we make Nav work. Nav shall have a key role for, among others. getting sick back to work. It is disappointing to note that the changes we made to the medical practice in 2007 do not yet work well enough in the Nav system and have not been satisfactorily followed up. There I had hoped that the Council of State and the Government could have been much more offensive at a much earlier time, so that we could actually have managed to bring down sick leave for a good many people. In addition, it is important that we try to get all free passengers out of the sick pay scheme. I am thinking of this, not least when we see that some employers and employees use the sickness pay scheme instead of the permitting scheme. In this respect, let me quote what senior adviser Knut Røed said in Today's Business on November 26th this year: ‘It is difficult to ignore the use of sick leave, inter alia, as an alternative to permacy in a transition and decline period.’ That's an unacceptable way for me. Those who are not ill should also not have a health pay scheme, while those who are ill should have a good health pay scheme. For the Progress Party, it is important to have a sick pay scheme that provides those who really need it, and we do not want a scheme that reduces the benefit of the sick person or carries the costs to the employer to a greater extent. I record that also in another area since this government took over in 2005 and until today, we have had an increase of over 26 000 disabled people. We have had an annual increase in the cost of NOK 11.3 billion. In 2005, we spent 47.9 billion kroner, while at the end of 2009 we will spend 59.2 billion kroner. In addition, the Government in its Soria Moria Declaration has said that one of their main areas is to limit the number of new workers and to bring more people back to work. Then we record that over the years that the red-green government has ruled, we've got 30,000 new disembodieds every year. In addition, there are 36 000 queues for action. And not enough: the queue for those waiting for action has increased by 10,000 just in the last year. It is strange to me that the government does not both take action to reduce the number of disabled people, as stated in its Soria Moria Declaration, and not least strengthens the offer to a far greater extent in terms of action places. Furthermore, I want to address the challenges of the Nav system. We know that the Riksrevision report for the 2008 operating year was relatively crystal clear. But the first question I ask myself is, Has the situation changed? The focus has to a large extent been on the balances of recipients of daily allowances. What about the remainders for all of the other groups? Can we be sure that in 2009 this will lead to a decline, and not least to the fact that in 2010 we will be in control of this reconstruction? Or can we expect that, when the set-up teams end at the beginning of January 2010, the balances will rise again? I remember an answer I received from Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as late as October this year, where I was informed that the processing time for rehabilitation in Oslo is 3.9 months, while Nav's own scheduled processing time is two months – almost twice that. How's it going with the other types of benefits? We've heard a little about that. I also think it is important, given all the stories we have seen in the media around, that we get a better profile in the situation in Nav, and that we get action on a permanent basis – lasting action. Therefore, it is disappointing to me that the government parties for 2010 propose a reduction in appropriations, which will lead to a reduction in Nav's staffing, as stated on page 118 of the Government's proposal, in relation to what was the case in 2009. I think it's going to be a bear service by starting down human husbandry as early as 2010, especially given that we're going to have a major, comprehensive and important redundancy reform, and not least when we look at the qualification programme that many of the Nav staff are informing us that this with work performance assessment is something you don't have enough competence to do. When you start building up that manning right now, and you don't have enough skills, and you're going to start this reform in 2010, I think, as I said, you're doing a bear service. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party either promotes alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1690	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1695	We have just heard the chairman of the committee serve a number of loose claims about the state of the labour market. The party of progress, on the other hand, has given us a lesson this autumn in what is a rather unknown exercise for the government parties, namely what I would call hypothetical budgeting, based on the underlying hypothesis that the economic policy of the Progress Party would have led people to become less sick, that unemployment would sink, and that a place between 60,000 and 130,000 more or less debilitated would find their way back to work. This, of course, needs a more detailed explanation. In fact, I would like to ask the representative Eriksson to explain to us how more of the policy that led us straight into the financial crisis can reduce the social security budget by a total of DKK 9 billion during 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1700	Firstly, it is very thorough in our alternative budget how the Progress Party intends to implement its policy. Secondly, in terms of reducing the social security payments, we have gone through the Soria Moria statement carefully. We agree with many of the goals set by the Government, that we need to bring down the social security payments. But what's the problem with the government parties is that you can't come up with measures that work, which reduce these costs. Let me do one example. The Prime Minister said earlier this fall that for 2010 he has an ambition to reduce the cost of sick pay by 10 pst. When the Progress Party follows up with measures that will reduce at the lower edge of 7 pst, it is almost a scandal. If that is the case, my question becomes almost back to the Labour Party representative, that he does not believe in the Government's own policy and in the instruments contained in the Soria Moria Declaration in order to achieve the goal that, among other things, has been achieved. The Prime Minister's aim is to? The Progress Party now has concrete proposals on how we can deal with more, including: in the healthcare system, and we have reduced the hospital payments and the social security payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1707	It is quite alarming to hear the criticism of Nav by the Progress Party in the years that Nav had at worst, when we know that the Progress Party just in those years was cut off in the Nav operating budget, which had been equivalent to 1 000 posts. But now let it lie, and let's look at how the Progress Party budgets, because they have a very creative bookkeeping. That bookkeeping is so creative that they don't have tort, as far as I can see when I've examined, to get their own numbers quality guaranteed. They claim that with the budget of the Progress Party, it is possible to save NOK 4.7 billion on losses. So that means that it's approx. 25 000 hours before 1 January should have gone straight to the labour market, which is now very tough, so that this budget would be merged. Then I would like to ask the Progress Party, since they have not received any answer from the Ministry of Finance to this or torture to ask someone else, is it so that these are just numbers that the Advance Party has cooked in their own group?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1712	Firstly, the Progress Party has an offensive policy to slow down growth. We see that the number is increasing by 30,000 every year. In fact, we think it's more important to put in place a system that can follow up on the individual underprivileged, something like that. The hub has not been able to reach this point and would have reduced the number and cost. Let me mention that when the Minister of Finance was interviewed last month when the Progress Party was challenged by the media on these figures, the Minister of Finance went a long way in saying that this was an estimate. The Progress Party bases its calculations on estimates in the same way as the Government and all the others do when making a budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1717	I will go further on a few of the proposals that the representative Eriksson does not address, and the inclusion, because I believe that some of the proposals are irresponsible. I'd like to point out in particular the cut of $8 million. to the Petroleum Control Authority. At a time when several players in the industry, where Statoil has an increasingly dominant role, and there are scarcer margins, the Progress Party is proposing to cut 8 million. kr. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to merge Petroleum and Labour Inspectorate. This merger is smeared with 50 million cuts. kr. It is known that the two inspections have little overlapping tasks. My question is: does the Advance Party not take seriously the safety of its North Sea workers, and does not this professional group, which accounts for such a large part of the country's value creation, that we are actually putting their security at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1722	The progress party takes the safety of those who work on a Norwegian base, very seriously and are very concerned about it. This was also reflected in the proposals and our comments last time, in the previous period, we discussed the HMS message for, among others. North Sea workers and offshore workers. I believe in a merger, and that efficiency gains can be obtained – get more up-to-date supervision, get better supervision and get more supervision that can do a better job. There are also opportunities to pick up efficiency gains. It has previous migration experiences from groupings of establishments in both the municipality and the state shown to be possible. Why should this not be possible in this area? I am quite convinced that efficiency gains can be obtained without jeopardising security and without compromising the quality of supervision to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1731	The labour force in our country is our most important resource. It is the one that will ensure future value creation and secure future Velferds-Norway. Getting people a job and income to live with is the very best way we have to reduce social differences and prevent poverty. So that's why there's work for every job. 1 for the Government. Therefore, this year's budget is a budget that is clear to jobs and designed to slow down a future increase in unemployment, as we know is announced, at a time of continuing uncertainty in the labour market. Because work and work for everyone are job no. 1, was also the first government to do when we took over in 2005, to reverse the changes that the Bondevik government had made in the Working Environment Act. There were changes that would have changed Norwegian working life drastically. But we stopped access to increased working time for up to 13 hours, to increase the use of overtime. We stopped the impairment of employment protection, and we stopped access to increased use of temporary staff. When we took over the government offices, unemployment was also higher than in a long time. But after four years of red-green government, it had decreased. Before the financial crisis came to an end, unemployment in Norway was the lowest in over 20 years, and we must not forget that. Our starting point through the financial crisis has been the best in Europe. But the curtain's not okay. The financial crisis is not over. It will have a greater impact on Norway too in the coming year. The availability will increase, and therefore our most important job is also to try to slow down the announced increase in unemployment. We have to get those who are now going to be, are in danger of becoming or going free, something to do quickly. Long-term unemployment must not get caught. That is why we are strengthening labour market measures in next year's budget. That is why we are strengthening the long-term unemployment guarantee and offering it to those who have been out of work for a very long time. That is why we are improving the regulatory framework for the use of intra-corporate training, and therefore we are continuing to focus on the qualification programme. We use it all over the country, so that more people can get out of poor living conditions and get into activity and work. The next year, almost 10,000 people will contribute to the community instead of being excluded from the qualification programme. We are following up the action plan on poverty with just over $1 billion in next year's budget. With the 2010 budget, the annual appropriations for poverty measures have increased by less than DKK 4 billion from the time we took over in the government. That's good, but that's by no means enough. We must have a full focus on combating poverty in the future. We have to make sure that those who are struggling financially today get help to get out of the situation they are in. Getting people to work is our most important tool to combat poverty. Secondly, we must prevent the next generation from falling into the trap of poverty. Making sure that children and young people master the school is essential to their success later in life. Increased efforts for a better school, homework and the fight against apostasy and thus unemployment that may end up in disability are therefore a good fight against poverty. Here, we need to have full focus forward. We're not satisfied. As long as there is child poverty in Norway, we will not rest. We adopt a government budget to keep unemployment low, while at the same time taking care of those who now have it tough, those who are experiencing unemployment, and those who are already out of work. We continue the fight against poverty with broad instruments. Then it is a pity to see that parts of the opposition have a different policy, where they are weakening, rather than strengthening, important instruments to combat unemployment and to get more involved in work in times of crisis. Instead of strengthening one of the most important tools to help social welfare beneficiaries enter the labour market, the Progress Party eliminates as much as possible the entire qualification programme. The cutters in the prevention and surveillance tools of the labour market will not establish regional protection agencies and remove the training aid scheme for lone dependants. They also cut in additional social benefits. This is unsocial cuts in people's rights and in the possibilities of getting people into work and activity. As if that were not enough, the Progress Party also operates with what has already been pointed out today, namely what we can call magic when they budget with lower social security expenditure, and cuts total up to DKK 9 billion in expenditure. According to their alternative budget, the number of people in need shall be reduced by re-assessing their working capacity and then moving quickly into work. However, as has been pointed out so far, such a reduction in expenditure for 2010 will require 56 000 partially unemployed people to get a job before 1 January, i.e. the next four weeks, or 130 000 of them to get a job before the summer. It is unrealistic when we know that 90 000 people with disabilities are already in line and want to go out to work, but not let go. It will also, of course, take time to get everyone's residual ability reviewed and a review of it, and then get them to work. But the Progress Party is already budgeting with savings in 2010. Enchanting people into working life and adopting them fresh in the alternative state budget is not possible, and it also makes the savings of the Progress Party unrealistic. If the Progress Party is so comfortable that the Red-Green Government has a majority and thus does not create alternative budgets in view of their adoption, that could be a good thing. However, if the Progress Party creates serious budgets that they will be able to adopt at some point, the Progress Party must respond to how they would take it out of expenditure. If they had not magicd people into work before 1 January or adopted them healthy, but had nevertheless taken the cost savings, they would have had to cut off the benefits for people. Such a cut would be e.g. equal to 4500 kroner less to live for a lone minimum pensioner. The progress party should be honest and tell its voters how the budget is linked, and how they would take it out if it had been adopted. In our budget area today, social security expenditure is increasing by NOK 30 billion. The predictions of an increase in sick leave are dramatic. This is definitely our main challenge in the future. We have to reduce our sick leave and reduce our expenses. We cannot see that as many ports outside the labour market as long-term unemployed. We can't see that the cost of this is eating up our action space in the future. That is why I look forward to a good debate, a constructive debate, in public and between all the parties on the Grand Duchy on how we should deal with this, because we must. The increase in sick leave is serious. It's serious, because behind the numbers there are thousands of people who, for various reasons, are unable to work or not get work. The increase in sick leave is primarily serious for those concerned, and it is serious for the companies affected by it, and it is serious for society and the state as a whole. I am particularly concerned about the increase in the number of young people available. When we look at which groups of long-term absences are increasing, it is youth unemployment that is increasing most, and it is extra worrying. There are young girls, and there are young men in construction. When youth unemployment increases so dramatically, it is extra worrying, because we know that young people who leave early are more likely to be permanently out of work. Early leave is a gateway to disability. We also got new numbers recently that showed that the number of young people who are pregnant is increasing. It's serious. When we look at the young long-term unemployed and the young unemployed, there is one common feature left in that group, and that is that many of them have dropped out of school. Here, we need to put in place measures to keep sick leave and leave low in the youth group in the long term. When we look at the statistics and see who's hit by this, it's just the ones that don't complete high school. It is those who have parents who were themselves disabled or unemployed, they are those with low education, and it is those with poor living conditions who obviously cut low on health status and, therefore, most often end up outside the labour market, both permanently and temporarily. This tells us that there are general, good and strong welfare schemes that reduce differences in living conditions. Differences in education, income and, consequently, health are also crucial to limiting leave and sick leave. That is what we need to debate in the future and take action to change. Because it's about people behind the statistics. It's about our most important resource, the workforce of the future. We can't afford to leave more ports outside. Our goal must be a working life for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1764	Yes, everyone has to go, but more and more young people are declared destitute. The number is increasing, especially among those with mental disorders. Many have not even received treatment for their disease until they are declared unfit. The Labour Party representative was asked yesterday by VG if a larger proportion of social security beneficiaries might choose to receive disability benefit because the social system makes the opportunity convenient and comfortable. I choose to turn the question: does the representative think that the reason for the high number of young people is that the municipalities, health companies and Nav think it is more convenient and comfortable to let young people with complex disorders get dissatisfaction than to help them with health services, individual plans and organised jobs? Is this a clear result of the red-green policy that we have seen in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1771	No, it's definitely not a result of the red-green policy we've seen in recent years. The increase in long-term unemployment and the increase in the number of young disabled people is definitely something that we are deeply concerned about, and that we are fully focused on. We have to look at the underlying causes. We know that many of the young people who become disabled have been long-term unemployed. Then we have to look at why. Among other things, we have the Youth Guarantee was reintroduced, as the representative’s party, the Progress Party, was opposed – a guarantee that more young people are kept active and in work. We have to look at why so many young people go long-term unemployed and then end up in disability. As I said earlier, it's a lot of things about many dropping out of school. We have to put in an extra effort to prevent the drop-out in school, which the government is fully focused on. In addition, when we know that the increase in the disease rate for young people who are long-term sick is about less mental illness, yes, it tells us something about the fact that we have to take seriously that the queues in juvenile psychiatric disorders are twice as long as they are in adult psychiatry. There has also been an effort made by the Government. So this we have the full focus on. I am pleased that it seems that the whole committee is fully focused on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1778	I note that the representative follows a long working party tradition by being satisfied on his own behalf. I am a little disappointed that the representative, who is so young, is so nostalgic that she has to look back at the Bondevik government – but enough about it! We have more and more young people who fall out of the labour market, more young social clients, more young unemployed. On pages 90 to 91 of the budget proposal, the Government provides four guarantees: youth guarantee, follow-up guarantee, action guarantee and long-term unemployment guarantee. The four guarantees have one thing in common, and that is that absolutely everyone is broken – absolutely everyone is broken! For me, the guarantee is not an intention, it is a binding promise. So my question to the representative is: don't the many young unemployed, the many who are outside the labour market, and the many destitute and ill more from the Government than broken guarantees and empty words?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1785	I'm going to give the representative Røe Isaksen right in one thing: yes, the young unemployed deserve more from all of us. But I do not agree with the description that the Youth Guarantee is broken. The Youth Guarantee, which we first introduced in 1995, reduced youth unemployment in the 1990s. Then it was the Red Isak Party, Right, who, together with the other parties in the Bondevik government, removed the scheme as early as 1997, and then increased youth unemployment again. I am very pleased that the red-green government reintroduced the youth guarantee, with the third it has, in the last period. We have to look at how to strengthen the guarantee to make sure that more space is provided by it, but taking from youth rights to better follow-up, activity and work is not the way to go when you're dissatisfied with that so many ports outside. We need to strengthen the Youth Guarantee, not remove it. It's proven to work before, and it does now. We have Europe's lowest youth unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1792	First, I want to commend the realistic picture that the representative paints of both the sick leave, of the difficult debate we are having, of the labour market, and not least of the fact that we have many tasks left on the poverty side. But a common front for all of these things is that we have to have a hub that works. The signatures in this room have raised the issue of implementing the Nav reform and following the intention of the Stortinge. It's a bit. But we also know that there is a challenge associated with operation and, among other things. ICT. In the listener there was a matter that was repeated. We know that the Labour Party has close ties to trade union relations, and the NTL says this: ‘The frustration and impatience of the NAVs is great because it takes too long to achieve a desired ICT target! The consequences are poor, inappropriate and unstable ICT systems are high.» Is not the representative of the Workers' Party unique in the resulting image?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1802	We listen to everyone, including, of course, the trade union movement, who has concerns about the Nav system, and not least about suggestions on how to get it up and go in a better way. When it comes to ICT systems, of course, it's a very important piece to get up and stand up. These are complicated systems to get run together. Unfortunately, it is not that new ICT systems in general government are a type of shelf product that can only be given more money to buy. This is a time-consuming process that must be allowed to proceed. However, the government is following the situation continuously and guarantees that it will be possible to modernise and bring together ICT systems. It's added a long-term race, and we trust it to come up and go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1807	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1810	Norway is, in many ways, a success story, a poor country on the outskirts of Europe that, through commitment, openness and creativity, dared to become one of the world’s best countries to live in. It is in many ways somewhat arrogant of politicians who will take all credit for what we call the Norwegian model, because it is not really such that politicians can decide that a country should become rich. We can accommodate, we can distribute, but the values are created out there out of hardworking Northmen who every day contribute to a slightly better society both for themselves, for the neighbor and for the rest of us. This must be the starting point when we discuss policy – not its own excellence, but the value of others’ efforts. Over the last decades, thanks to hardworking Nordics and others, we have contributed to the country's economic growth, and that most people are better off than ever before. At the same time, there are more and more people outside. Some reason why society has changed dramatically in recent decades. To take an example: Four decades ago it was so that if a man who went out of school without being able to read and write properly, he came from my hometown, Porsground, he could go up to the factory port of Hydro and knock on the door, and then the chance was great that he could get a safe workplace. Today, that possibility is largely gone. People can't go to sea anymore either. Workplaces that impose low standards of competence are moved out of the country and knowledge is the new capital on the labour market. In many ways, the shadow side of the Norwegian model is growing right now – a three-quarters society where more and more people are falling outside. We have gaps in our welfare community, and there are no simple solutions to seal the holes. But that doesn't mean that there are no solutions. There is one vicious circle that leads more young people to social assistance, leading to more disabled people, and more people to fall out of the labour market. We see the beginning of the vicious circle in a school where one out of five goes out without being able to read and write properly, a school that reproduces social differences instead of lifting those who need it the most. It continues the vicious circle with the sky-high drop-out numbers from high school, where especially young men give up. And then the vicious circle goes on through a public system that often offers passive support schemes instead of activity and work. Then the door is often closed for good. In Norway, in the middle of the Norwegian model, a society is emerging in which the outsiders remain outside. We know it's expensive, we've heard it repeatedly in the last few months, including. from the government team. But more importantly, it's unworthy. It's unworthy when healthy, young people get social assistance instead of work. It is unworthy when newcomers to Norway receive permanent benefits instead of permanent jobs. It is unworthy when workers who get sick are locked into the social security system instead of being treated or rehabilitated. It is unworthy when social security recipients feel that they are losing money on going from social security to work as a kind of criminal tax for action. If you are ill, you should have decent support from the common fund. If you can't work, you shouldn't work either. There's nothing wrong with it or in need of help. But it's wrong and it's embarrassing for us as societies when social welfare becomes the least resistance way, when there's a way to avoid confronting the real challenges. In a society with a lot of noise, you have to shout loudly to be heard. As a former prime minister said, the struggle for budgetary resources is often ‘a struggle between well-organised people, those who belong to groups that are strong from before and who can therefore bill their demands on the state budget. But someone – he wrote – ‘does not belong to such a group. They are easily forgotten and marginalised». They are also marginalised because the poverty picture has changed in Norway. On the way from poor to rich Norway, our great task was to lift entire groups out of poverty and into the community. When poverty was concentrated, today poverty is fragmented. At that time, poverty could be combated through broad economic growth and collective solutions. It doesn't work the same way anymore. In many cases, poor material conditions are primarily a symptom of poverty, not the cause itself. The underlying causes may be more important, whether they are drugs, mental problems, lack of adaptation of the working life or too high barriers for those who want to enter, a school that fails, homes in disintegration, or lack of self-respect and self-esteem. Outsiders and poverty in Norway is not about the fact that the large masses are constantly living on the edge of the plunge, but about the fact that a few, but more and more, fall through the holes in our welfare systems. The government, headed by the Socialist Left Party, went into the last period to eliminate poverty – poverty, not poverty. But a few months ago it seemed as if Kristin Halvorsen had resigned. The definition, she said, is 'that poverty cannot literally be eliminated'. I was a little uncertain as to whether I heard correctly. Can't we get rid of poverty? Why not? After all, it is not impossible to create a policy that eliminates poverty, even if we have a relative poverty target. I personally believe that such a policy would be unwise, because we had weakened the incentive to work hard. But it's about politics, not statistics. The challenge on the left has been that they have been more concerned with differences than with poverty — more concerned with who has more, than with who has less, more concerned with how many rich cottages are built than with how many do not have housing. The political consequence of staring blindly at a difference is that you do a little for everyone instead of doing a lot for those who need it the most. A great state is not necessarily a strong state. That the state does a lot, doesn't necessarily mean that it does what it has to do. We have three major challenges in our field: first, the explosion in the number of disabled people, including the incapacitation through sick leave. Secondly, our welfare systems invite people to an outsidership. For more and more, the only way out is to become passive receivers. Thirdly, the emergence of a fragmented but clearly emerging poverty combined with social marginalisation. The reasons are many and complicated. So far, in the debate on sick leave, we've seen a gunner's tomb war where everyone's shot at everyone. I think maybe we politicians too should try to look at what we've done. It is not the only explanation – perhaps not the most important one either – but part of the outside world is also due to a misguided policy and a misconception. Let me do some examples. We have barriers for those who want to enter the world of work, who are high, who hit those who need a new chance most. Many risk losing money on going from public support schemes to work. We have built barriers, at worst poverty traps, which keep people in social security but out of work. Private allergy means that we do not exploit the potential of private organisations, private employment agencies or private recruitment companies. We often forget ‘do your duty’ and only remember ‘require your right’. That's why we don't give users of social services the right and duty to activity. The right-hand side has constantly warned that too much policy can be an economic challenge for competitive business, for innovation and for investment. But the commitment is not based on the concern of the macro-economy, it is not based on inflation targets or just on the idea of how many dollars and cents the country will serve. The conservative starting point is a belief in people. We have to fight for the best in human nature – the natural will to do something good for ourselves and others, the natural will to build a better future for his family, to give children a good start and a good opportunity in life and to be a good fellow human being. This is the personal well-being, which represents values that we should take care of – values such as freedom and responsibility, effort and profit, care and charity. This is the personal well-being that is the protection against the client community. Personal effort and profit do not undermine society, it strengthens society. When individuals are held back, society is held back. We can only build an independent and responsible society with independent and responsible people. Differences in Norwegian policies do not always work as much when you look at each financial year, but there are differences. Right-wing policies are based on different ideas, different values and different principles than government policies. Over time, the differences will be noticed. The right's alternative budget is a budget for new opportunities, for trust in individuals, including in the field of work and social affairs. Finally, I would like to address the Right's proposals and proposals that have been promoted by the Right with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1838	The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1844	It was nice to hear the speech – a rhetorical argument that the Right is the party, and has the policy that promises the poor. I think that's quite eye-catching. I will continue to comment that the Right Party and the Advance Party have said many times that they will cooperate. Before the election, the Right claimed to be the bearer of a broad bourgeois government option along with the Advance Party. The Progress Party's total cut in social security benefits of $8.9 billion and $615 million. in qualifying aid will have dramatic consequences for many who are dependent on these benefits. Why is there such a distance between the Right and the Advance Party in these main welfare policy challenges now, when you were to be the most important supporter of the elections? What does the representative of Røe Isaken think is necessary in order for the Right and the Advance Party to approach each other in these two main challenges of welfare policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1851	First, I must be allowed to correct the representative's understanding of history. It is not that the modern welfare state in Norway grew up after the Second World War as a result of the Labour Party's votes alone. It had its origins, among others. in the factory laws, which came at the end of the 1800s under a Right-Registration. So it's alarming that the Right is concerned about social policy and about poverty policy – it shouldn't be, to say the least. The answer to the question asked by the representative is quite simple: it must be decided by the parties’ national meetings. I assume that there is nothing different between the Right and the Advance Party than it is with the government parties, namely that the national meetings adopt the policy. So I would like to ask the representative a question back, on which the representative may have reason: is it not a little strange that this reasoning comes from a government where one of the government parties' own representatives has gone out and characterised the Prime Minister's proposal in the case of sickness pay as 'high-ranking'?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1858	Røe Isaksen’s contributions show one of the really big differences between SV and Right, namely that the Right believes that poverty is combated with greater pay differentials and greater differences among people, while the SV believe that we do the best with less differences. We were also told that encouragement to work would be what keeps people out of poverty. Then I also understand a little more of the Right's position on the measures against social dumping that the Right has been against in the last period and that they are now signaling. The reason for that is perhaps the most eye-catching, because our wealth is not only built on hardworking Nordics, it is actually also built on quite a number of hardworking foreigners who are here. So the right-hand side is that the Nordics who have the least secure jobs with the lowest pay, who compete with these non-residents, are going to find themselves competing more for pay. It says it in this budget and it's done it many times. It means going into pay, that's what it means. Then I have to ask the right: how far should the maids, carpenters and cleaners go down to pay before the Right is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1865	I think the representative has read a little bit of a mistake, or in that case read the Right Commentary as a certain man reads the Bible, because what it says is not that anyone should go down in pay. What it says is not to regulate and intervene in wage formation in Norway. The government has also not proposed that wages be regulated in public. For example, the Landsorganisation is a strong opponent of the legalisation of a minimum wage. Wages and salaries are determined by wage-fixing, but otherwise there is free wage formation in Norway. In contrast to the Government, we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate a little. In our alternative budget, we strengthen the Labour Inspectorate by 10 million. precisely in order to prevent social dumping, precisely to ensure that there is a proper functioning of the labour market, just to ensure that no worker should be exploited simply because they do not know Norwegian laws and regulations. So the Right fully supports having a responsible, proper and decent labour market for those who come and help us in good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1872	The representative referred earlier in the debate to the fact that Bondevik II is nostalgia. I must plague him with a little more nostalgia. The right-hand position referred to 800000 out of work and an exposure to them. Then it's a fact that the government of Bondevik II was in favour of significant intensifications into the work environment law. You can get the impression that the Right Party wants to have a milder rhetoric after this government reversed the changes proposed by the Right Party. So my question is, is it still current Right-wing policy to intensify the Working Environment Act? And: Is it such that the Right still longs to weaken the rights of workers through the Working Environment Act, or is it no longer Right Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1881	I guess there wasn't so much rhetoric under the Bondevik II government that was crazy, like the ears that heard the rhetoric. Right-wing policy is the same today as the one we conducted under the Bondevik II government. I tried in the post to say a little bit about why. Let me just say this first: of course, we should have a well-regulated working life with safe and good jobs in Norway, but the disadvantage of having too strict regulation, for example. one for rigid regulation of temporary employment, is that the barrier to entering the labour market is very high too many, and it worries me, at least now in a situation when youth unemployment shoots in the weather. Then the government parties should ask themselves the question: what can we do to give more young people an offer and an opportunity to get back into the labour market? For the moment, what the government has launched — several measures, or guarantees, all of which have been broken and which are not working — is not real to give young people a chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1886	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1889	Well, one year after the financial crisis went too far, Norway is doing well. We have low leave, and it's one of the greatest benefits a country can have, and a people can have. I've been on guest orders with the Council for Mental Health today, and they report that Nav is working better. Many users who report that Nav works better, and that’s good. But the situation in Nav needs to be closely followed, because that's the most important tool we have to help people who need both income, help get into work and social follow-up. So there the government has to follow closely. In particular, I would like to point out the following: When we see that there are more people in need of follow-up waiting for action, it is not because there has been a lack of money, but because Nav has had problems with spending them. The size has repeatedly stated that this situation needs to be improved and that we need to get the measures to those who need them. The qualification programme is well under way. It is one of the most important instruments to combat poverty, but I would also like to stress the importance of quality in the formulations. These are people who have met a lot of defeats, and they need schemes that will enable them to recover the sense of sailing and mastering and move on. That's why it's very important not to use up, to put it that way, the qualification programme for people with poor quality measures. I would also like to point out the important promises we have made for poverty. In the case of housing aid, there is a huge uplift – in a total of DKK 1 billion – and many more households will be entitled to housing support and the promise of the minimum benefits of the population up to 2 G. There was a promise that actually did not even stand in Soria Moria I, but that was made, and that was a performance promise right to the most disadvantaged. There has been a lot of talk today about young people falling out of work. What I think we have to remember is that many of them have many more and often heavy diagnoses, and it's kids and young people that we've really known for a long time. So here's the thing about getting access to children with problems, earlier. I've said it several times, and I think I'll dry it again; I think that also Nav has to spend more time and resources on these kids and follow them up closer and earlier, and not, to say it like that, use the opportunity to give people, who qualify for it, disability so quickly. So maybe there's a reason to say stop some older ladies, 60 plus, with seven-eight diagnostics, before they go on the seventh grade. We know that it's hard to communicate them to the work force, and then it might not be so bad that that group gets dissatisfaction. I am very pleased that we are now going to put in place new guidelines for the response with service dogs that Stortinget adopted last year. In order to get users into that project, it is extremely important that it now gets going properly, so that it can provide security for some of those who have had such an offer before, and that we can develop it, because it also allows more people to get into work. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about social dumping. Good pay and safe working conditions are the cornerstone of a good life. Ensuring this both for Norwegian workers and for those who come here and have to work for a while is very important for the full level of the labour market to give people the opportunity to live a real life, not to become working poor, as it is called in America. It is very important for us, and therefore it is worrying when the opposition writes that they are opposed to the measures against social dumping, because it prevents competition on wages. It's in the notes. It was said last year in the notes, and it was the year before there in the notes. Competing on pay when you're a maid, a carpenter or a cleaner is going down in pay. It's going down in wages because there's someone from abroad who's willing to pay off, and then you have to take part in the downsizing in wages and salaries in order to keep the job at all. That's what it means, and the slowdown in pay for ordinary workers who earn the worst, who have the most unsafe jobs and who get the most sick and unhappiest, will not be included in the Government and the SV. We want stronger measures to ensure this, because we are not going to have ‘working poor’ in Norway. We want more people in work, and they need a salary they can live off and a job they can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1908	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1911	Very many disabled people both want and can have normal work. They do not need any action space, but they need job organisation. There has been a sharp decrease in the number of employers applying for an organisation benefit, which may indicate that the scheme is not well-known, and that it seems unfavourable when private employers have to pay 40 pst. of the expenditure itself. This leads to fewer people coming to work. Does SV think it is wise to continue to allow private employers to cover these costs, or does SV also see that more people will be able to get a job if the employer is not able to pay this extra cost? And what's the reason for not looking at whether you can change the scheme now, when we see that there's been a huge decrease in applications to facilitate? There must be good reason to look at it now, when discussing the budget, and make a more favourable arrangement so that more people can get to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1918	I fully agree with Mr Giltun that it is a worrying feature that the number of applications has fallen, because it does not coincide with the number that needs to be organised and that stands and waits. This is one of the reasons why the Government has now announced in its proposal – and we have supported it – that it should be considered to create an employment strategy for people with disabilities. It would be quite natural to go through all the measures that need to be put in place to make this work more smoothly than today. In addition, a large sample has also been reduced to look at the whole resource area. All the measures we now have in this area must be consistent with the line of work and be in place, so that people actually get the help they need, and that employers also get the support they need. I think a lot of people will get along, but they're a little worried -- not for the cost they get, but maybe a little bit because they don't know how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1926	An unknown SV representative who is present stated to Dagbladet in February 2008 that disability benefit is the nobility mark of the welfare state. For my part, I think that we can say that it is not worth giving up people, for many more should and could be at work. And as the representative himself said today, young people should not qualify for disability so quickly. Right-wing agreement. It's important. Sick leave eliminates many. I wonder what is really Karin Andersen's vision and intention in the sick absence debate. The representative desaves proposals from his own government, yes, his own prime minister, when he makes contributions to measures that can reduce sick leave in the work towards a renewed IA agreement. Andersen characterises in the Newspaper on 1 December this year the Prime Minister’s input and proposals as traditional ‘right-wing’, ‘to stare blind’ and to find ‘short-term solutions’. On the other hand, she highlights good examples, for example: from Mandal, whom her government will not spread.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1933	First, I would like to make it clear that I deeply disagree with the Right if they believe that disability is unworthy. Disadvantage is worth it. You are as good a participant as you are in society if you have a disability, if you are sick or if you are working. I think it is wrong that you do not follow up on young people and others enough. That's what's unworthy. Disadvantage is a society's nobility because it protects many who are sick, against poverty, and I'm going to fight for it with beaks and claws as long as I can. In the case of the sick pay debate, I have followed what they do in Sweden quite closely. Last week, there was a big look in the Norwegian press related just to the suggestion that I understand the Right is very excited about, namely that you should have a fixed medical period for different diagnostics, which obliges people to be assigned to work anywhere in the labour market after 180 days, and that shows that very sick people are being pressured to quit a regular job in order to take a temporary job anywhere in the labour market. That's SV against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1942	I'm not going to use my post to push down on SV because there's not as much talk about poverty – whether it's the removal of 'poorness' or 'poorness' – because I know the representative Andersen's commitment, and I think we share a sincere desire to do more for the poor. But I'm a little concerned that we're dealing with a budget of NOK 295 billion, and it's actually not being moved on anything. We're impatient, we want more to happen. The representative has probably seen the Christian People's Party's good proposals, whether it is a matter of state standardisation of social assistance rates or of lower ownership or removal of the property of dental health targeted at the most deferred groups – plus a number of other measures that I could mention. We want a dialogue; we want to get more, we are impatient. Is Karin Andersen and the Government interested in a dialogue? And in that case, can she give me any help on how we can get through?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1949	I also greatly appreciate the Christian People's Party's commitment to poverty. We're dividing that. SV is also impatient. I now have some experience both from the position and from the opposition, and I know that I have got a lot more in position than what I did in opposition, when the Christian People's Party put in government. This applies, inter alia, to: raised in the housing support and in the lowest benefits in the population's security to which we have now received, which is actually a billion-dollar pledge for the poorest. It's important. But we're going to continue working on new measures. Especially when the Government is about to go through the Distribution Committee's settings, it is very important to put in place more measures. Because that's what's needed. SV shall provide assistance for these actions, and shall also invite cooperation on them when we are to work out large, more structural measures and individual actions in relation to the handling of the suspension of the SPC.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1956	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1959	The draft budget of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is a budget for employment and social protection. It is a budget that emphasises the importance of work in a broader context than having a job done. Unfortunately, this budget also has expected expenditure for 2010 which is higher than would be desirable. The costs of disability, daily allowances and sick pay must be reduced. Norway has come out of the financial crisis well, but we notice it, and we see a great increase in both the number of underpaid and sick pay payments. That crop cannot continue. More recently, there has been a major and important debate on the sick pay system. Not least, there has been talk of how we can set up both the system and the labour market in order for far fewer people to need to be away from work because of illness. It's a demanding job. In particular, there is a demanding job when the Government has set its goal of doing so without falling into the labour market. This is to be done without increasing the threshold into the labour market. We need to pursue a policy that implies that everyone should have the opportunity to contribute their working capacity. In the case of sick pay, the centre party has indicated that it wishes to have an open approach to possible measures. At this stage, we will be open to all good proposals, including good proposals from the opposition. One can wish – and I hope one can – for the widest possible anchoring of what must be the health pay system of the future. It is the parties who are going to do the job, but the debate in this room will be absolutely crucial to the outcome. For the centre party, it is natural that we are also concerned with the framework conditions for the self-employed. We believe that, in the future, we need to look at the sick pay rights that apply to this group – in addition to the social improvements that have already been made for self-employed people. There will be a need to have more knowledge of how today's system meets these. The approach of the centre party is that all should be given the opportunity, and have the duty, to contribute to their working capacity. Norway will need more labour in the future. Much needs to be covered by the inclusion of more of those currently outside the labour market. To succeed in such a policy, it is essential that Nav function as intended. I'm absolutely sure the idea behind Nav is correct, but we have to be aware of the recordings that are coming, and that there is a need to make adjustments along the way. We often get feedback from dissatisfied users of Nav, and one may get the impression that very many are dissatisfied. But we rarely hear from those who actually get the benefits they're entitled to, and I think they're a little motivated to write to the members of the committee. As a representative of Rogaland, I have to get into the Petroleum Control. This oversight has a very important role to play in ensuring safety in the petroleum sector. An overall committee points out that the image we are now looking at presents particular challenges to supervision. One has many new, small actors, and Statoil's dominant role also presents several new challenges. The work ahead of us is not easy, but I'm glad that the red-green majority has a commitment to finding the good solutions – the good solutions that will enable everyone to participate in the community. And one of the most important arenas to participate in the community is work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1980	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1983	The representative Pollestad was so far within the Petroleum Control Department in connection with Eriksson's posts, where he favored Petroleum Control and thought we didn't care about safety at sea. We care about safety at sea, in line with the fact that we care about safety at sea. We're getting an increasingly large public sector, without the government's going to consider doing anything about it. As well as the Petroleum Control Agency, the total number of employees is close to 290 million. kr. They have many of the same tasks, and one can take advantage of each other in a collaboration and gain from a saving that results when one organizes these two supervision to one, which is the Progress Party's proposal. Why are the government parties not interested in saving where one can - not least when it is able to make a positive total out of the service they are going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1992	I dispute the description of reality that was expressed here, when it is said that the two inspections have largely overlapping tasks. The primary task of the Petroleum Inspectorate is to prevent major offshore accidents, and there are few similarities between the work done there and the work and the challenges of working life in an ordinary workplace. Petroleum monitoring carries out more technically demanding work, and it also has an important environmental role to play. I agree with the representative that one should save where possible in the public sector. Petroleum monitoring is not an area in which it is possible to cut and save without weakening the safety of offshore.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e1999	I record that the representative and the Central Party are more open to the Prime Minister’s ‘right line’ than other parties in the coalition, and I think that is very good. That is exactly how we can have a good dialogue on the health pay debate. In the municipality of Mandal, they've done a test where they use carrot instead. They give employees more confidence, greater chance of self-declaration, and they have got good results. However, the municipality of Mandal has had major problems in approving this scheme. I wonder if the representative can explain to me why the municipality of Mandal has had such a big problem in approving such a positive test scheme locally, and why the government seems to be reluctant to extend the type of pilot projects to other municipalities as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2004	It's right that the Center Party has announced that we have an open approach to the health pay case. I do not see that there is any major disagreement between the three government parties in this field. An important point raised here is that the municipal sector is essential for reducing sick leave. We need to look further at the experience of the quality community project in order to achieve it, and on a general basis, an open approach should be adopted to municipalities that are trying out measures that work. I have no faith that the Government will oppose good initiatives that prove to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2012	The representative Pollestad belongs to a party with a batch program, which in many ways represents a policy that I can revisit in much of what the opposition writes in its comments, and in particular my own party. So it was also good for the right-wing representative to talk about the self-employed, because when the centre party was in the center, they were clear that a good center policy is about taking the whole country into action, building it from below, investing in self-employed and not least stimulating them to flourish. In today's setting there is a proposal from the Christian People's Party that one should equal the founder, self-employed, with regard to their entitlement to sickness benefits and care allowance in connection with pregnancy and childbirth. Does the Centre not see that it is a challenge for women to be discriminated against and not have the same possibility of getting sick money from care and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2019	I have noted the Christian People's Party's flirting with the government parties in this debate, and I appreciate it, and I also see that the Christian People's Party in this position is the party which stands dissidently close to the government parties. The centre party has a high level of involvement with the self-employed. We are committed to strengthening their social rights, so that the threshold for those who want to be self-employed is lower. One has introduced parental and maternity benefits for self-employed workers, and I believe that a future person must also look at other measures that can motivate people to start their own business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2028	The chord change is then complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2031	A society where no one falls outside is one of the main goals of the Christian People's Party. That is why we are presenting an alternative budget where we are more focused, but with exactly the same use of money as the government parties, able to strengthen poverty reduction, inclusion in the labour market and implementation of the Nav reform. The last monthly labour market figures show that there are now 94 000 people with reduced working capacity who are in contact with Nav to receive assistance for rehabilitation and qualification. There's 11,000 more than just a year ago. Almost 40 pst. are under so-called monitoring, or are awaiting the initiation of a relevant remedial action. While the Governmentreduces the proportion of people with disabilities on action, the Christian People’s Party wants to strengthen thereduction measures – especially towards those who need closer individual follow-up over time. In our proposal for framework deployment, which is being promoted today, we propose to increase the target number of labour market measures by an average of 1000 places in 2010, targeted at this group. The desire to contribute more strongly to the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the world of work is also the main argument that the Christian People's Party proposes to strengthen the allocation of 7 million to work and education trips. kr. In 2009, the appropriations for this purpose were used up in the first six months, without leading to any increase in appropriations in the Government's draft budget for the next year. This will affect those who want to contribute. The Nav reform has been sailing in stormy waters in the last year. Nav enters 2010 with a lower number of employees than averaged in 2009, because, according to the Government, the Nav reform has now come into a stable operating phase. I think that many employees and many users of Nav feel that reality is slightly different from what the Stortinget used when the timetable for implementing the Nav reform was set. In particular, representatives of Nav staff have pointed to the need to strengthen the allocation for ICT purposes in order to streamline the flow of data, to remove unnecessary manual operations and to transfer resources to help and follow-up by users. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to strengthen the ICT budget by 75 million in 2010. kr as a contribution to the effective transition of the Nav reform into a stable operational phase. The Christian People's Party agrees with SV's party leaders and finance ministers over the previous four years that we have not come far enough to combat poverty in our own country. We believe that whether poverty is measured as a relative or absolute measure, the conclusion is that in any case, we need to focus even more on targeted measures. We want a common promise, a national virtue. This is an invitation to all, so that we in the Committee and in the European Parliament can jointly achieve a promise and a goal-setting to lift everyone out of poverty. In our alternative state budget, the Christian People's Party presented a total of DKK 1 billion of reinforced poverty measures, including the following: proposals such as the removal and reduction of probabilities for dental services and medical treatment for vulnerable groups, the state standardisation of social assistance rates at a higher level than the current indicative rates and increased ambitions for drug treatment in cooperation with non-profit actors in the care of drug users. All these measures are outside the remit of our committee. However, in this budgetary position too, the Christian People's Party is committed more strongly to social inclusion measures for children and young people under the direction of municipalities and volunteers, to enhanced debt counselling and to increased cooperation with voluntary organisations on labour training and social training. Sick leave and action against it have been the subject of a major debate in the field of employment and social affairs for the autumn. We all agree that something has to be done. The main consideration is for employees themselves and the importance of avoiding long-term sick leave ending with exclusion from the labour market. Although we have and are to have good welfare arrangements that ensure a decent living for those who, for health reasons, end up outside the labour market, all agree that rapid return to work should be the absolute preferred option for as many as possible. Recital No 2 is that smaller growth in payments in welfare schemes provides better room for other important efforts in education, care or transport. In this setting, the Christian People's Party has taken a little advance on the work of the Prime Minister's sick leave committee. We are promoting a concrete proposal to impose financial penalties on the holding of the dialogue meetings, which I have known for many years now have been identified as a key instrument for limiting long-term absence and for taking action in the workplace. We believe that such an action will contribute to the main concern — help people back — simply because it will be more important to hold dialogue meetings. And we've shown in this setting that it also gives room for reasonable repriorities within an unchanged framework. Finally, I would like to address the Christian People's Party's proposals for alternative framework disposal as well as other proposals we have promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2057	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2062	As Ropstad pointed out quite correctly, a major theme of this autumn has been the increase in sick leave. On the part of the government parties, we have stood firm that we should not touch the sick pay system of the workers. We're going to focus on reducing sick leave, which I perceive is that the Christian People's Party has also joined, as a process. Then we have had a challenge in establishing and implementing the dialogue meetings, for the pace of implementation, which Robstad correctly pointed out, has been too low in relation to what has been the intentions. However, we have seen that it has increased in 2009, and we appreciate it very much. When the Christian People's Party then proposes to take action in the context of the proposition, they justify that with financial penalties the number of dialogue meetings will be increased. I just want a confirmation from the Christian People's Party: Is financial penalties a good tool in the work to reduce sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2073	It is true that for the Christian People's Party, one of the important aspects of bringing in the sick-fed debate is precisely prevention. We know that we need to look at reasons why people get sick, and not necessarily just come up with administrative measures or regulatory changes, even if there may be proper medicine. When we focus on dialogue meetings in our alternative budget, it is precisely because it will have an effect if they are implemented both after 12 weeks and after 6 months. One will probably also be able to execute more dialogue meetings if a user is penalised for having them implemented. If they are implemented, we are quite sure that this will result in better inclusion of workers, and thus one could reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2080	I want to follow up on that question a little bit, because perhaps one of the biggest surprises of this setting is that the Christian People's Party – despite the fact that they share common observations that they are going to retain the rights of workers in the sick pay system – is actually proposing measures that would weaken workers' rights, where under given conditions they will lose some of the sick pay. I think we need a clarification from the Christian People's Party as to whether they believe in the job we're entering now, that employees' rights related to the health pay scheme should be uncircumcised, or whether they're open to cuts in the health pay scheme. In that case, the Christian People's Party is the only party that goes into the work we have in front of us now, starting with it, perhaps with the exception of the Left. I do not know what the Left believes – they have not been told what they mean in this setting, so it gets the Left answer for the sail. I'm a little surprised that it's just a Christian People's Party that chooses that approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2085	I can contact the representative from SV that it does not match. What has been our point is that implementing more dialogue meetings will reduce the number of people who get sick – entering and looking at prevention. This will also result in fewer sick people, and therefore a few savings will be made. That has been our argument. This is a good proposal, which I also think the expert committee should be able to look at when one is going to move forward in the sick pay debate. Our gateway to the sick pay debate is precisely that, when you have heard the Prime Minister and seen the mandate of the expert selection, it seems that there is a great deal of focus on administrative measures and regulatory changes, and thus on tightening up the sick pay system. This is why we want to put in an aspect that we need to focus on why people get sick, and focus more on prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2090	There will be opportunities to follow it up, because what Ropstad is saying now, there is no disagreement, the dialogue meetings, the follow-up to the IA agreement that is in force today, that Nav, perhaps even the primary doctors and the workplaces have followed up too little, nobody disagrees. What is more alarming is that the Christian People's Party in one of its points chooses to say that if this is not done, it is the employee's sick pay to be reduced – if I do not read the proposal of the Christian People's Party completely wrong. That means that the Christian People's Party opens up a cut in the sick pay system as part of the work strategy to reduce sick leave. That's what I think I have to drill a little bit more in. For the points that Rupstad is now raising, there's no disagreement about. There are many proposals we are going to discuss now. But the Committee and the Government have been very careful to say that workers' rights should not be touched, and that is where we need a clearer clarification from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2097	I can once again stress that we did not go into the debate with a desire to cut the medical rights for those added. Therefore, it has been important for us in this process and in the setting to stress that the IA agreement should be settled, and that we want a longer and more binding IA agreement. In this respect, I am aware that no change can now be made, but that this could be a proposal for the debate that we are going to go into. The important thing for the Christian People's Party is that a desire to stimulate the implementation of more dialogue meetings. Then the sanctions are imposed on employers, not on employers. When one is given more dialogue meetings, it will also result in better inclusion of them, and it will bring down the sick leave. This way, one will also reduce the cost of sick pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2103	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2106	I can say – via the President – to the representative Andersen that if she has any questions about sick leave, I would like to take it in a line. But now I only have five minutes, and then I want to talk about even bigger things. I believe that this has tended towards a quite ideological debate. There have been several good ideological contributions, also based on the history of the welfare state and on what we build our welfare state. Then I think it's really good that the Left comes up, because there's probably hardly any of the big social reforms here in the country that the Left hasn't made. Then we get to one of the things that I think is the big challenge for our welfare state. It's that we're now getting such an advanced and detailed welfare state that it's just them with good resources, and those who have arranged their lives, who are able to figure out how to get help from it. We're starting to make so many millimeters of justice in many systems that if you really need the welfare state, the day life really rages together, it's not there, because you can't figure out in this system. I think that's a common challenge in how we're going to develop our welfare state in the future. So to the Left's suggestion in this field. We have two main priorities. The first is that we have created a budget option that will create more jobs. We have added NOK 7 billion more to various measures that could lead to more people actually coming to work. We have a conservative estimate, which is not based on what Left's advisers have been thinking, but on what the Ministry of Finance's experts have said, that we are creating over 7 000 more jobs with the Left's alternative budget. The second major investment in this field is in the income situation of the poorest children, to those who experience growing up in poverty. You can explain a lot of things, and there may be a lot of reasons why people end up in poverty. But one thing is clear to the sun: children have never chosen their parents. Children have never chosen their childhood. There are never children who have chosen to grow up in poverty. Growing up in poverty is never the fault of children. That's why it's so important to make a lift especially for the children. Among other things, we have put in a pot in relation to leisure time and the possibility to enter all the leisure venues where many young people feel that they are not being given the opportunity to enter. A very large part of our leisure time is strangely managed by organizations and by voluntary initiatives. That's what we see in the left is good. That is why we believe that the support schemes to participate and to have an active childhood must also be able to go through these organisations, that we find systems for it. Furthermore, the Left is paying care to parents with disabled children. We have 500 more action places for people with disabilities. We've spent more money on'sloppy dwellings', i.e. housing for those who don't fit or have the ability to live in a normal living environment, and that we build homes for them, so the alternative is not to live on the street. In total, we have a targeted poverty effort of DKK 1.8 billion. It's actually based on a basic commitment to getting something done with poverty, and it's not hinted at any other parties when we do it. We've also raised social assistance rates at SIFO level. We believe that we should take into account what we promised in the election campaign. I am amazed at how many I was in the debate with during the election campaign that said they would do it, and how unbelievably few who would agree to do anything about it. We also do a lot on social rights for entrepreneurs. But I think that, in sum, I can say that the two most important measures are about poverty for children, and it is about 7,000 more coming to work on the Left's alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2124	The representative Skei Grande and Left have had a warm commitment to include more immigrants in the labour market. As the representative probably knows, this is a group that can wear out quickly – much because of the prejudices of Norwegian society, with many closed doors. But with the Left's attitude to liberalising the provisions of the Labour Environment Act and freeing it of temporary employment: Is it right that immigrants should accept worse jobs in Norwegian society than the so-called ethnic Norwegian shell?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2129	No, and that's exactly what's the point. I think exactly what the representative refers to is the problem. The problem is prejudiced by employers. The problem is they don't know what they get when they take in a person with such a background. That's why it's important to fit in, build relationships and show what you can do. Maybe it doesn't seem like such a great responsibility to try out the possibility of such employment, and that a lot of people could have had an opportunity that they wouldn't have had otherwise. We'll be able to give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2134	I'm not going to invite you to any manhunt about which parties are behind different social reforms. I never doubt the social conscience of the Left in my life. And if I don't remember correctly, it was also so that Bent Røiseland in his time proclaimed that it was really a left-hand man who invented the wheel. But I miss one element in the five-minute presentation by the representative Grande, and that is the emphasis of education in the fight against both poverty and unemployment. And my question is whether the representative Skei Grande and Left will join us in the process of continuing training reform, which can make the threshold of poverty much higher and the threshold of working life much lower.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2139	I thank you for this opportunity, and I want to give a very big invitation to the Committee to give the Left a little longer speaking time, so we can also use the speech to show the great breadth of our policy and not just the simple decisions. Well, there's actually a huge investment in this in our alternative budget. This has always been the left hand thing. In our poverty initiative, there is a very systematic effort at school and at the relief measures that lie within the school, because we know that investing in a good school is the most social equalizing thing you can do. But it is also a matter of priority, and we believe that good teachers and continuing training for teachers are more important than bananas. So we've given priority to teachers in front of bananas -- as opposed to what the government has done. That's because we think the teachers are actually the most important input factor: a good teacher is able to help everyone get the same opportunities later in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2146	I'd like to open up by saying that I think it would be nice if the Left had also been in the Committee, because I think the Left has a lot to contribute in many of these areas. But I want to give the Left the opportunity to answer this question of sick pay, if the Left wants, like the Government and the majority, not to compromise the rights of workers in the sickness pay system in the job we are now going to enter in order to reduce sick leave, get rid of sickness and get people back to work. And the second question I want to ask the Left is this: Both SV and Left are parties that are very concerned that people should be able to move across borders and work in different countries, but one of the things that we are very concerned about there is the measures against social dumping. We see that other bourgeois parties are opposed to these measures, because they prevent competition for wages – i.e. cleaning workers and carpenters have to go down to pay to keep their job when it comes to cheap, foreign workers. Does the Left agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2153	Firstly, we were in and signed the IA agreement. It's our party leader's name that's on it, so we're on what we've signed on to. This weekend, central government put down a separate sample of our very best people on sick pay, who are going to work and come up with lots of ideas about how we can deal with the problem that we agree on. And we hope that the Government takes over all of the ideas that we come with. There are also some ideas in our alternative budget that go on the tax system, ideas that will help more people get out of treatment queues. And then to this with social dumping. I think it's important to have rules that counteract social dumping, but what I've seen – even from personal experience, because I've been working with foreign workers – is that sometimes it becomes the law that creates social dumping, and not the free right that the employee has to make a contract of employment. I have seen how Polish agricultural workers who depended on the farmer who had picked them up did not have any bargaining opportunities on wages, while today – when the restrictions on this are gone – they have really received an increase in wages and have really increased their rights in relation to the employer and can choose the employer they want. But there's a lot to do in this field to make it fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2160	The morning meeting will now be suspended and set again at 5 p.m. 18 to continue the examination of case No. Eight. The first speaker at the evening meeting is the Council of State Aasrud. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2192	The international recession contributed to strong growth in unemployment from the summer of 2008. In the last six months, growth has been more moderate, and new figures show that unemployment has remained almost unchanged in the last month. With 3.1 pst. Norway has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. This shows that the government's countercyclical policy is working. The government is still taking the time off seriously. The proposed allocation of labour market measures will provide about 78 200 places on average for the first half of 2010. This will contribute to important labour-oriented assistance for more job-seekers with disabilities and other unemployed. It also means an increase in the number of places with temporary wage subsidies compared to the average level in 2009. The Government proposes to extend the target audiences both for the long-term unemployment guarantee and for the grant of intra-corporate training. These measures are part of a sustained effort to reduce unemployment. The government is also continuing its efforts to combat social dumping in 2010. Economic downturns have contributed to a slight decrease in labour migration, but also to a deterioration in the situation of foreign workers. The government will extend the regional protection scheme to the clean-up and hotel and restaurant industries. Good experience from the construction industry tells of increased seriousness and protection work and more orderly conditions for both Norwegian and foreign workers. Older workers are an important resource in the world of work, and the Government wants to make it easier for them to remain as active as possible. The income test on retirement has already been suspended for 67 and 68 years of age. I am pleased that a unanimous committee supports the removal of the curtailment for 69-year-olds, so that the income test on old age pension is abolished from New Year's. Social security expenditure under the Ministry of Labour is budgeted for about 272 billion kroner. It's an increase of 30 billion kroner from the 2009 budget. The significant increase is due to the financial crisis, an increase in the pension base and ageing of the population, but also an unexpected and worrying increase in sick leave. Sick leave is the central theme of the ongoing discussions with the social partners on continuing IA cooperation. The agreement is now extended until 1 March 2010 to allow the parties to consider a broader package of measures. At the same time, a professional expert group has been set up to assess administrative measures, including health notification practices and follow-up of the sick. We will go into 2010 with the reorganization of labour and welfare management. In many ways it is now that we can really achieve the objectives of the Nav reform, with the follow-up of the users in focus. As has been said in the debate, and as I have said in this Chamber before, I do not think that all the problems for Nav are solved in 2010, but it is a pleasure that much goes better, and I am pleased to hear that more people are also experiencing that they are getting calls from people who are satisfied with Nav. The qualification programme is well received and now becomes nationwide. The introduction of redundancy benefits and the right to work performance assessments are also very important to reduce the proportion of disability benefits received. The government will strengthen its response to poverty in 2010. The government combines a broad prevention perspective with measures to reduce poverty and improve the living conditions of the most disadvantaged. This involves free lessons learners and measures to improve the implementation of secondary education. The allocation of housing aid is increased. Substantial improvements are being made in the efforts of drug addicts. In addition, the Government proposes to increase the minimum benefit for rehabilitation, rehabilitation and temporary unemployment benefits and to increase the transitional benefit for lone dependants to 2 G. The social security scheme in 2008 is followed up by a proposal that the minimum single pension should also be 2 G. Overall, this contributes to improving the economic situation among those with the lowest income in society. The 2010 budget provides room for continued strong efforts against unemployment, against poverty and for a more inclusive and decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2214	In the past, the government has said that one of the main areas of action to reduce poverty is the qualification programme — also one of the most important measures to increase employment. When we look at the 2008 National Audit Office survey, we see that four out of eight visited Nav Offices have not carried out a performance assessment until the participants have been given a decision on a qualification programme. Lack of competence to carry out such an assessment is indicated by many as the reason. Furthermore, none of the agencies can demonstrate that the selected actions were individually tailored to the needs of the participants, and six out of eight offices are unable to demonstrate that the individual level has been offered to the participants. Can the Council of State now assure the Government that they have ensured sufficient competence in Nav to ensure that they are put in place and that they are all offered, individually, and that they have the competence to assess their ability to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2223	The Qualification Programme is an important measure to enable those who fall outside to come back and have a decent life. It is important that those who work with those users who are required to have a qualification benefit are qualified to make the assessments to be made. Therefore, the Employment and Welfare Act has put a lot of emphasis on training programmes for those who are going to work on this to have the necessary knowledge. Before the introduction of the redundancy allowance in March of next year, a significant level of competence for those who are going to work on that type of assessment will be implemented. In addition, learning from each other is important. I feel confident that the Employment and Welfare Act has focused on providing employees with the necessary skills. At the same time, support from others will also be needed in the smallest offices in order to implement the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2228	The current regime of the 26-year rule on aid for the acquisition of aids for training and stimulation makes it impossible for many people with disabilities to maintain training and leisure activities. This also means that many young children’s parents do not have the opportunity to participate in activities with their children. The 26-year rule is an example of age discrimination that creates social differences and leads to a reduction in the health status and quality of life for many over 26 years. Does the Council of State think that this type of discrimination is right? And in that case, what is the reason for maintaining this age limit, which prevents people with disabilities from having equal opportunities to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2235	There is no doubt that tools are an important tool for people to function. This is why the Government has now reduced a public sample to go through the whole area of the facility to assess whether we have a proper device in the area and whether it is the right measures that are there. Before we make assessments about whether there are new groups or other groups going in, I will await the investigation being made, and will come back to Stortinget if there are any new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2240	By the end of 2010, the government, as they often point out, will have spent SEK 3.9 billion more on combating poverty in relation to the Bondevik II government. I sent a question to the Council of State a few weeks ago, where I wondered if you, when you have used approx. An additional DKK 4 billion is expected to be a lower proportion of the poor in Norway as a result of the measures. The answer to that from the government council was: No, you couldn't expect that. My question to the Council of State is: do you see a need to complement today's poverty target, which is a relative poverty target, with an absolute poverty target, so that you can actually avoid shooting at a moving target in poverty policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2247	I think it's important to be aware that poverty can be quite different, depending on who you are and what your life situation is. That's why I think it's quite difficult to set absolute targets on what poverty is. Poverty is about how much income you have, but it's also about a lot more, what access you have to different welfare schemes and what social framework you have around you. That's why it's pretty hard to set the right targets. But I think it is important that we have a rather broad approach to measuring poverty. In my opinion, the discussion is characterised in many ways by a discussion of the relative development of low incomes. I want to be open and welcome a debate on what objectives we should have – I would like to discuss it. I am positive in assessing other objectives and whether the relative income targets we now have should be complemented by other and more absolute targets for poverty. I'd like to welcome input into it when we're going to discuss the settings from the Distribution Committee when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2252	An important measure to combat poverty is to get more people to work. In addition to getting more people to work, it will also focus on people with disabilities, and fighting for more areas of action, creating a better and better life for individuals. The last measure shows that it's approx. 94 000 people with reduced working capacity who are in contact with Nav for assistance, rehabilitation and qualification. What is also a challenge is that the number of people with reduced working capacity receiving help is falling. I am aware that there will be a bet approx. 3 000 places in those with moderate assistance needs. Does the Council of State see the need to invest even more for those who, in particular, need closer individual follow-up over a long period of time — bringing more space for action to those with reduced working capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2259	In line with the questioner, I am also concerned that we have not been able to get more people with reduced working capacity back into work when we have had a period of economic recession, and when we have also arranged – among other things. through the payroll subsidy scheme – in order to allow people to get into work if they are unable to provide fully. We now have an action level of over 78 000 places, about 3000 of which are allocated – as the representative says – to those who have a moderate need for assistance, and about 1000 places for those with a reduced working capacity. The Nav system itself disposes of the sites according to the needs they see, and can set up its actions in a way that is considered appropriate. I believe that it is important to take into account that we have managed to get into work, and see clearly that it may be useful to have increased focus on that group in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2265	In the election campaign, I took part in many poverty debates. In many places, the amount of social assistance — how large it should be — became part of the debate. We have some objective criteria for what size we've been told about from different research environments. I understand that the Government has not given priority to increasing the rate within the framework of this budget, as proposed by the Left in our alternative. But my question to the Council of State is whether she sees increasing social assistance as an important factor in reducing poverty, so that in the future she might consider reaching out to the Left's proposal to reach the SIFO standard. Or isn't social assistance an important factor in reducing poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2272	For me, the main measure is the qualification programme. It helps more people get into work or activity. But there will also be people who need social assistance. I'm skeptical about introducing minimum standards or fixed rates, because I think it will quickly be perceived as maximum rates and not as minimum standards. I think it's the municipalities that can best assess the individual's needs, based on an overall assessment of the individual's life situation and the whole situation, and then I think maximum rates or minimum rates will quickly turn out wrong. Then we can't see the individual, and I'm concerned that in such a context, we see the individual and the needs of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2282	The 2010 budget shows that the Government does not take the necessary action either to reduce sick leave or to allow more people with disabilities to participate in the labour market. The system of redundancy payments, where everyone is to receive a tailor-made offer that can bring them into the labour market, can therefore have a difficult start. The Progress Party is now entering in order to increase the number of allocated places for disabled people by a further 2,200 action places. We do not do the right and the right in the action areas to them with moderate needs, nor do we see any need to wait to set up these places, as the Government does. The strengthening must already be achieved in order to advance the work on the establishment of appropriate measures. The organisation aid scheme is too poorly known, and it seems unfavourable when private employers still have to cover 40 pst. of the expenditure itself. The Progress Party proposes that employers cover 100 pst. of the costs of organisation and strengthens its alternative budget by a total of 54 million. kr. We also ask, together with the Right, the Government to present necessary legislative proposals to ensure that workplaces for disabled persons are organised based on support schemes funded by Nav. During the hearing, the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Impaired Persons pointed out that it is important to change the current practice that persons with developmental disabilities are almost automatically excluded from the ordinary labour market and that the system of temporary wage subsidies must be used in cases where developmentally disabled persons may enter normal work. The Progress Party will remove unnecessary barriers to participation in working life for people with disabilities. In our alternative budget, we chose to strengthen the allocation of EUR 10 million to assist and work travel respectively. SEK and 13,5 million. kr, and we ask the Government to file a case with a view to lifting the ceiling for reading and writing help for the blind and weak mind. There is also reason to boast of the red-greens in the Committee for a Tiny, but too many important, says, by being able to turn over from the original proposal to move the appropriations to interpreting and accompanying aid. So that's possible, and I strongly recommend that they repeat in several cases. Unfortunately, the Service Hund association failed to meet the same understanding to move the appropriations back to that project. The project has not started as planned this year, and the Progress Party therefore believes that the association should be able to cover its expenses for the purchase of three ready-made dogs to current users. The Progress Party has covered the expenditure in the balancing proposal and only the Progress Party has proposed to allocate 1.5 million. extra kr for the purchase of new dogs for users in need of replacement dogs in 2010. It is too bad that a user should risk having to stand without a dog when the dog is too old and cannot do his job anymore. An overall opposition believes that service dogs for persons with reduced mobility should be approved and financed on the same line as guide dogs for the blind. The need for aid in general is increasing, and we ask the Government to come back with a strengthening of this item in revised form. The current system of the 26-year rule is age-discriminatory and creates social differences in the acquisition of resources for training and stimulation. The Progress Party increases the allocation in its alternative budget to raise the age limit to 35 years, and we also ask, along with the Right, the Government to present a case to the Storting where the objective is to remove the age limit. It is a serious social problem, and it bears witness to a society on the wrong track, when more and more people in working age live by social happiness over time. It brings individuals and families into poverty. No person of pre-employment age should be included in a passive social welfare system, and social welfare requirements should be mandatory. In other words, the qualification programme should not lead to increased social benefits payments. The qualification programme is simply a qualification aid for those who need help to get to work. The Progress Party also believes it is important to have good follow-up and assistance measures for disadvantaged people, which can lead to more masters of everyday life, and will strengthen the voluntary work aimed at poverty and various lowthreshold services. The Progress Party may refer to a coherent policy, which provides rapid medical treatment, which provides rehabilitation, and which reinforces various measures that help people with disabilities and disadvantaged people to better participate in both working life, leisure and social activities. It pays off socio-economically, and it will give people a better everyday life. So it's mentioned something about being drunk. It continues to emerge: The party of progress spells – spells away the insured. It's with this thing that it's with trunching otherwise. When the tricks are revealed – how to do it – they are quite obvious. When you look at the programs about how the magicians do their tricks, you see -- well, that's the way to do it! That's the same with our budget. We give grants where it's necessary. We make sure that people get help. It makes fewer people need social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2316	The budget harvest has given us two major debates, both of which have a significant impact on the major challenges of the future. One concerned biodiesel, in the context of the global climate crisis and the desire for more environmentally friendly fuels. The second, more recently, was about sick leave and a strong increase in the expenses of the population. The perspective of this debate is about sustainability for tomorrow's well-being, for generation accounts, but most of all it is about individuals – who for various reasons do not work, and of which a alarmingly high number of ports are permanently outside the labour market. The greatest benefit of a welfare society is that most people are self-sufficient. When almost 800,000 people of working age are out of work, it means that our welfare community has some major shortcomings. These deficiencies affect people, and the Right is very concerned that many of these are young people. The total availability of the 16-24 year group is 9.3 p.m. On the right, these young jobseekers will meet with several measures, and some will be given the opportunity to discuss in a later case today. In our alternative budget proposal for 2010, we have, among other things: added 15 million. to initiate obligatory measures for job training and qualification in municipalities, measures to meet young people who need to seek social assistance and help them return to work. After hearing the comments from the representative of the Trettebergstien earlier today, I do not understand that she could not support this proposal. In its proposal for a State budget, the government has described the labour market situation and concluded that we have managed very well here to avoid mass unemployment during the financial crisis. But the definition of what unemployment is, and the duration of unemployment, are two concepts the government does not have a strong enough relationship to, because in addition to the approx. 70000 registered unemployed are over 90 000 people with disabilities — formerly referred to as disabled people. This last group of unemployed people needs extensive assistance to be able to work, but in the last year, efforts in this field have been systematically reduced. In our work on the budget, we asked the Ministry how much time it takes for a job-seeker to apply for a place of action to be realised. The answer we received was alarming! 270 days a jobseeker has to wait – this corresponds to a year's work in the number of working days. The worst, however, is developments from 2008 to 2009, when there was an increase of 50 days! The right has for a long time fixed the search light to this effect. We have pointed out that the proportion of people with disabilities in interventions has decreased, and we have pointed out that the number of waiting days has increased. For me, it is therefore good to be able to say that the Right has a comprehensive policy in this area, when we commit in our alternative budget to increasing the number of job-impaired areas by 3000 compared to the Government's proposals. I would like so much to see that the government parties in this room could have the freedom to support this. We obviously share a lot of the same sense of reality. During the comitology procedure, an overall Committee on Employment and Social Affairs wrote the following comment: ‘The Committee will also point out that while registered unemployment among the employed Nordics is relatively low, 68 300 people per year. In November 2009, the number of job-seekers with disabilities, previously referred to as the disabled, is very high. Statistics from the SSB show that, after a steady increase in the last two years, the number of people with disabilities, which indicates that they want to work again, is around 90 000. The Committee notes that the total number of jobseekers in Norway is 158 300 people, and that for many of them there is a great need for labour market measures to get out of work.» The last section implies that we have to operate with a different unemployment target. Account must be taken of the disabled. Based on the understanding of the Committee, unemployment in Norway represents an overall level of more than 6 pst. This is a significantly different image from the one presented by the Government. I therefore expect that the government parties in this Chamber will now contribute to the success of efforts against the disabled in the years to come. I hope 2010 can be a fresh year in Norway. Recruitment from social security search messages to outsiders must be stopped. Norway is full of good examples — the Mandal experiment has been mentioned earlier from this pulpit. Another good example is that in Sør Trom's HMS service has been provided for its member companies and in the University Hospital North Norway – where it turns out that the absence of a pregnant woman on average has decreased by 13.6 weeks per year. pregnant, with simple measures. Such good examples can lead us into a good debate on the content of the new IA agreement. The trenches can't do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2338	I noticed that Giltun’s representative came with a fairly commendable recognition, namely that the Progress Party operates with extensive numbering when they make their budgets. It is an activity that can only be allowed by a lot in the eternal opposition – but the admission was commendable. While our nearest neighbouring country now has a unemployment rate of 9 pst, it was 2.6 pst. by the labour force in Norway without work in November. All parties acknowledge that the Norwegian economy is better off through the financial crisis than countries we like to compare with. It is not least because the Government launched strong actions in spring 2009, with active incentives for vulnerable industries, such as construction. The fight against increasing unemployment also marks the 2010 state budget. The scope of action is increasing by 3000 places – including places for job seekers with reduced working capacity. The scale of the measures and the overall outlook in the Norwegian economy have led to the statistical central agency having adjusted its forecasts for the increase in unemployment next year. That doesn't mean we can borrow back and blow off the financial crisis, on the contrary. I am seriously afraid that we are underestimating the problems in the yard and workshop industries – yes, in the export industry in general. Much stands and falls with the investment ambition and the investment capacity of the oil industry. The danger is that during 2010 and 2011, we may lose important industrial jobs that have kept many communities alive through generations. Although history has shown that this industry has adaptability, these are jobs that cannot be replaced at a turnaround. That's why it's so important that we build up under and further develop the expertise that exists in the companies, so that, on the day the orders run in again, they stand better rusted than when the crisis struck them. It concerns individual workers, enterprises and society as a whole. Just because we know that the longer unemployment lasts, we have to prevent long-term unemployment from getting stuck. In addition to passive social security benefits, we now need measures that bring new knowledge and skills to both individuals and businesses. This challenge is addressed not only to the labour authorities but equally to employers’ and employees’ organisations, individual company management and trade unions. They're the ones who're going to jump out the road. Then, as politicians, we have enough legislation and means to implement what, in my opinion, can be the germ of a continuing education reform that can in turn renew the entire Norwegian working life. In addition, there will be good industrial policy. But we'll probably have a lot of opportunity to come back to that later. In the EU, where unemployment next year will increase to 10 p.m., youth unemployment is particularly worrying. Anyone can imagine what can happen in societies where one in four young people is excluded from the labour market. Norway is also positive in this area, but youth unemployment is also worrying, and higher than in other age groups. We know that the threshold of working life is raised in low economic periods. In particular, groups that are traditionally more difficult to enter the labour market — and young people are, in fact, such a group. I am pleased that the Youth Guarantee is continued, so that young people under 20, and between 20 and 24 years of age, who have been unemployed for more than three months, are stimulated for job search and/or self-employment, and that those who have been unemployed for six months are included in labour market measures. But so important is the cooperation between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in order to develop adapted vocational and vocational training offers for jobseekers who have not completed secondary school. That's this path we now have to break.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2353	The Progress Party budget is a long-term budget in which there is a desire for more people outside the labour market to be treated because of illness. Today we have 260 000 waiting for treatment – it is serious. When one then knows that a greater part of them are sick and out of work, it's a problem, not only for the individual, but also for society, that pays the bill. Therefore, the Progress Party has increased the health and care budget in relation to the government budget, just to bring down the queues, and to ensure that those who should be at work come into work earlier than is currently the case. We don't increase the amount of daily money, we reduce it. It's because we want to show that one needs to work more to get people into work, while adding extra funds for more facilities, training measures and employers' contributions that can be used by people with different performances. We are concerned that so many people of working age are outside the labour market, which is reflected not only in the labour and social budget, but also in the health budget. What is particularly alarming is that many young people fall outside and end up being disabled or as social clients. We must also note that the Progress Party will have a better and greater commitment to business, to reduced taxes and taxes, to transport, and to a tighter follow-up of unemployed people. In total, this will result in a reduction in the number of unemployed persons and thus a reduction in the budget line of daily pay. In the budget, I will also focus on waiting wages. The government, which says everyone's going with it, has a problem here. Because when there is a waiting wage, there is only an exclusive selection of former statesmen and members of state companies to join. Here it's not the same scheme as for most people. One prefers its own and provides them with a better basis than any other person who is entitled to a daily allowance. The Progress Party will put a stop to this unfair 2010 scheme. This applies to new schemes. We think it should be fairly attached to arrangements of daily allowances, and with such a favourable arrangement we think that there will be a relaxing activity, being active in the labour market. The bosses think that one of the reasons is that there are several older workers who have problems finding new jobs. Yes, but it also applies to everyone else. It's not like it's just young people who receive ordinary day money. So in this situation, only a few are going to be present, and they're going to get more than others, unfortunately. The party of progress is concerned that the public is essing out. For this reason, it was very gratifying to read in Today's Business Friday, December 4, that Norwegian Skog's board leader, Eivind Reiten, is very concerned that the public is getting bigger and bigger – also in the context of developments in the Norwegian competitive sector. The rider says that the problems for the Norwegian export industry are being camouflaged by an ever-growing public sector, and that ‘the dehulling of industry and the growth of the public sector are at present dangerously high’. This is the result of a former centre party. What one should do, and on which we in the Progress Party are also ready in our budget, is to be restrictive with public expenditure that actually gives higher crown prices and thus higher costs to industry. It is just the industry that is concerned about in 2010, possibly in the case of more unemployment. One must also include in this context the small, positive forecasts from the SSB for 2011, where the unemployment rate has been adjusted by 12,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2373	The budget that the Stortinget is invited to deal with today is marked by the major challenges we face. The Labour Party voted that we should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe through the financial crisis. That's how far we've made it. Land around us has a leave of about 10 p.m., and we have per. on November a vacancy of 2,6 p.m. Work is the main means of keeping people away from poverty and exclusion. Work gives self-respect and identity, and it creates values that we can use for the benefit of the community. Many measures aim to increase the number of people working on the basis of the individual’s ability to work. Bringing together the benefits of rehabilitation money, return money and time-limited unpaid pay until a new temporary social security benefit is good. I expect this to happen quickly, and that the assessments will be wide, so that there will be good quality on these from the very beginning. If necessary, the establishment shall acquire competence from outside. The party opted for the creation of a different Norway. They wanted to change Norway in 100 days, the first optimistic messages came early in the election campaign. Faced with the realities, they became almost bureaucratic in their language, because then they would consider changing and considering cutting. But now that the election campaign is over, they cut. They cut with almost 9 billion dollars in social security and more than 615 million dollars. kr in qualifying aid for next year’s budget. This will affect many! Where the Labour Party's policy can be rewritten to all for one, one for all, I feel that the Advance Party's policy can be rewritten to or between, tell you – who's going to go out of line? Now everyone with partial disability benefit has to be re-assessed. The progress party cuts in the qualification program, and then they ask the Government to consider what unnecessary laws they can remove in the Labour Inspectorate. I am confident that the Government and the Council of State, if they consider it unnecessary laws, will take the initiative to remove them. In my opinion, this is not convincing arguments either that individuals get more security or more work. The working party is concerned that we have to break the heavy and often invisible structures of society that lead to inequality. Being out of work for a long time increases the chance of staying outside. Having parents who have little connection with the labour market increases the chance of their children becoming poorly connected with the labour market. There are inequalities in people's health depending on economics, education and social status. Therefore, early efforts are important in relation to families who are struggling with sickness or unemployment and have children. Alternative schooling is important, and it is important that young people get work experience and also help with the problems they may have. Giving people who struggle, believing that it benefits, believing that the future is going to be better, is, together with concrete, practical inclusion policies, one of the most important things we can do. That's why I'm glad that the budget that the majority put forward in this case gives signals about this to the individual: you're valuable. We need you. You can, and together we're going to find good ways to meet the many challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2400	Sick leave has increased, and we are in the middle of the aftermath of the financial crisis. We still assume that the impact on parts of the industry will increase beyond what we have seen so far in 2009. It is now important to bear in mind that with these challenges it is important to strengthen the measures to help maintain and improve the skills of Norwegian business. We are not going to call off the challenges that come to the labour market, for some industries are now producing on their last orders, and the global market for them is almost wiped out. Therefore, there are two measures specifically targeted in the next year’s budget: the continuation of the regulatory framework for permitting and the extension of the system of intra-corporate conversion funds. Nav’s instruments must allow for the implementation of adapted measures for different parts of the country, for different parts of the economy and for completely different people. The introduction of redundancy payments and work performance assessments shall ensure that we implement the right actions towards those who need follow-up. The focus must be on using effective measures. Under the heading of experimentation and development measures, funds have been allocated to new method development projects for labour-oriented rehabilitation. We need to know what we're doing. Research to document the actions that have a good impact is absolutely necessary to ensure that we use society’s resources properly. The work to keep unemployment low has given us very great benefits. If we are to maintain a continuing low level of unemployment and reduce in the long term the unfavourability of the population, it requires that we work across disciplines and across budget lines. Creating a good working life starts very early. It's about attitudes, level of knowledge, self-confidence and, perhaps not least, sometimes self-confidence. It's properties that form when we're little children. The initiative in kindergarten, primary and secondary schools to prevent apostasy is long-term and preventive. It is about training, early interventions and lowthreshold services for children and young people. For our young people, adult life should not start by not getting into work after school. Therefore, it is important to organise the long-term unemployment guarantee – we have strengthened it as well. This budget is in many ways a follow-up to St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007. It concluded that we had to make much more flexible arrangements. It was in order to ensure that the measures are applied in accordance with the needs of the individual and not on the basis of the type of income hedge he/she has. Therefore, labour market measures are increased by 3000 places. It is said that 2000 places are reserved for those with moderate assistance needs and 1000 new places with reduced working capacity. But we have put together the budget line, and that is to build up under the fact that the measures will be the most appropriate for the individual, and thus the most appropriate for society. Within the framework, priority shall be given to those with complex needs and those with reduced working capacity. We stress that labour market measures are being closely followed in the period leading up to the revised budget. We see it as important that the Government return to the Storting with a review of whether there is a need for an increase in the number of action sites, or possibly a change in the allocation. Several different measures have been taken, with the main objective of finding flexible solutions to get people back to work. Temporary wage subsidies have been introduced, occupational organisation grants have been introduced, disability pensions have been frozen for up to 10 years in order to be able to try their way back to work, and not least the qualifying benefit. In this respect, we have asked the Government to come back with an evaluation to look at how we can respond to the need in the future. Today there are two different solutions, one for Oslo, and the other for the country. We have to get to a common solution. The aim of all the changes is to ensure that the working line is the leading line. The new measures shall ensure that everyone is given a real job performance assessment. Politically, we agree on the main objectives, but in fact, we deeply disagree on the way to the goal. Among other things, we have the weighted qualification programme. We see that there are others who have prioritised not to. However, the main difference between the various budgetary proposals on the table is how to collect their funds. The Progress Party, in its alternative draft budget, provides for a substantial cut in the major sick pay and disability pension items. The cuts, as I interpret it, are to be implemented before the measures to reduce sick leave and disability – in my opinion, at least – have had time to work. Then work will be done to reduce sick leave and to get more people back to work a job that takes time. So if it's not about cutting performances, I have to say, for my part, that this reminds me a little bit of someone trying to balance the budget with a skin from a bear that's not yet shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2428	The right-hand side has today talked about the need to simplify legislation in order to create a more flexible working life. The right is also talking about the labour movement and the red-greens being concerned with income differences rather than poverty reduction. The fact that Norway is among the countries with the highest level of professional participation in the world is that we have done many things to ensure a good working life. When I think back on the proposals that the right-hand side has previously travelled in this room, and have been adopted, but which we have fortunately managed to reverse, it is about releasing temporary employment, and it is about removing the normal working day. Even I came from the labour movement, which in 1919 fought out the Norwegian community by going in the 1st May train with slogans where it said: 8 hours of work, 8 hours of free time and 8 hours of rest. It's the policy before 1919 that the right-hand side wants to go back to. But what will it mean for those who are struggling on the labour market, and for creating a working life where it is possible to endure? The reason we have such a good working life in Norway as we have – with many faults and shortcomings – is that we have strong, good trade unions that together with capable politicians have chosen to create a framework and solutions for the working life that enable everyone to achieve the best in themselves. I'm concerned that the right-hand side may not understand the major challenges that social dumping can pose for Norway. If we look at the world a little bit, we see in Europe the unemployment rate is going to rise to 10 pst. With the social distress and uncertainty that this brings about, and with the poor welfare systems that many countries have, it will help motivate people who, in pure desperation, are willing to come to Norway and contribute to creating a richer working life for us, but who may be willing to accept pay and work conditions that none of us would accept. Taking seriously social dumping is about regional protection agencies in the service sector, where we know that there is a lot of labour immigration – unfortunately, many unprofessional employers also do not take into account employees. It is about solidarity, and it is about following up the action plan against social dumping. When you go in to cut down on the State Health and Safety at Work Institute and on the Labour Inspectorate, it helps to create a working life where we get less knowledge of the things that are pushing people out. This means that we have less opportunity to keep up with the labour market in order for the jobs to be as good as we think they should be. The labour market policy of the right-hand side, by weakening trade unions, by removing key provisions of the Environmental Protection Act, is involved in creating a working life from which those who are weak before are to be pushed, while those who are strong are to be put in bags and bags. Norwegian workers know that it is the Workers' Party and the red-greens they can trust. I am pleased that we still have a majority who choose to have the attitude of the employee organisations that we listen to how we can ensure that all people in Norway get a decent working life. Too many people today are falling outside, and that's why we need the reinforced instruments to fight social dumping. For whatever background you have when you come to Norway to work, you should be met with the same respect, dignity and recognition as all other workers in this country. And this budget that the Government has provided is a good budget to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2445	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2449	Equal opportunities to complete education are a prerequisite for taking care of and further developing the Norwegian model with small social differences between people. As Trettebergstuen and others have said today, this is also a key key to people not getting on the outside of the world of work. More than today, therefore, education needs to be completed in order to get to work and have a safe place in life and in work. We can't live with kids leaving primary school without being able to read, write and calculate enough to get on with work or education, and we can't live with one in three falling out of high school. Those who say to young people that it's okay that they don't take education, that it's okay that you're not so good at reading as long as you're good at screwing, the kids do a bear service. In the future, there will be no jobs left for those who have no education. It's serious for our country, because we need everyone to contribute. We need carpenters, mechanics, health workers and people who can count. Our goal is for more people to complete advanced education. This will allow young people to be better equipped in their working life to take part in further training later in life. Today, only 70 pst. by student study or professional competence after five years in upper secondary education. The government therefore proposes to invest 58 million. in 2010 to follow-up students with poor results on the screening tests. In order to meet the needs of society and individuals, the level of education needs to be strengthened, and we need to develop a flexible education system that can adapt to a changing world. The education system must be able to balance social inequalities. Everyone has to have the same possibilities. Some of Norway's strength has been our great ability to convert. It's still going to be in the future. We can't just strengthen the skills of those who are young today. That's why we're going to give almost 80 million. to the Programme for Basic Competence in Work. In the crisis package and in the revised national budget, the appropriations for this purpose were almost doubled. That's this high level we're now continuing in 2010. Training shall be of high quality and adapted to the needs of adults to give a positive effect to the individual. In the future, we will also need to develop good models of cooperation between Nav, county municipalities and businesses, so that more jobseekers can be trained in basic skills. It must be an objective that more sectors are represented in the programme, in particular those employed by many low-skilled workers who are cyclical. This is the goal – by focusing on education, by striving to strengthen basic competence and raise societal competence – of increasing the need for support, of increasing the number of people to go outside. That's what the government's policy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2475	Norway has an unreasonably high level of sick leave. This is why the Right wants to put in place measures to increase the number of people entering the labour market. Hundreds of thousands of different support schemes are one of the biggest challenges in Norwegian society. There are limits to how long Norway can have the world’s best health insurance schemes, if this absence continues to rise. That is why I am quite proud of the municipality of Mandal, with its 1,200 employees. There, a unanimous city council took over the problem of high sick leave. They were allowed by the Ministry of Labour to start a trust project for their employees. They have been allowed to equate self- and medical messages as evidence of sick leave for up to 365 days. The project started in July 2007 and the results are fantastic. The municipality of Mandal has a third quarter absence of 6,1 p.m., against the municipality of Norway, which is approx. 10 pst. In 2003, they had 9.5 pst. – The municipality of Mandal is therefore 50,000 hours fresher now than it was in 2003. I think there's respect for that. This trust project is closely followed up by both the University of Agder and Agderforskning, which conducts follow-up research. Mandal has received an extremely high level of media attention due to the spectacular results – Editorial Service EN, Newspaper, NRK P2 – and it must be allowed to ask: Where is the Council of State, and where is the Ministry of Labour? Do they have no interest in the project? Not once have they contacted the municipality to learn and hear what they have done to get such good results. Many other municipalities and businesses have taken a great interest in this trust project, and some, such as Overhalla municipality, has contacted the ministry with questions about the possibility to set up a probationary system. The answer they received was no: Come back with an application in the fall of 2011! How can the Council of State permit municipalities that want to put down a significant job in order to reduce sick leave to receive no response? For me, it's completely impossible to understand. The sick absence debate is glowing. In the welfare state of Norway, we have a significant number of sick people, and the interest in good projects like this is equal to zero. At least I am incredibly happy that the Right, as the only party on the Stortinget, has made contact with Mandal and will be able to get a meeting to learn more about what the municipality has done. The right is for all good measures that can reduce sick leave. So should the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2498	I would like to make a few additional points regarding Petroleum Supervision. This has been mentioned in the debate in the past and is known to be their responsibility for oil and gas installations and the major accident regulation. Until now, we have taken care of what goes on offshore, but they also have – until today – the responsibility for eight installations on land and one under construction. I would like to invite the assembly to my home. I live in North Hordland, in a nice place in the country. This is the beach zone. We have hundreds of meters of belt in roughly every municipality, because these are coastal municipalities. When I go up to our tour site that has the ringing name ‘fireplace’, and sit down and rest there a little bit, I can look beyond the region. Then I see Fedje, with «Server», the oil warehousing pot and the mercury boat lying well down in the sea, and if I have some good vision and it's good weather, I see the facilities in the North Sea. If I turn my head a little bit, I see the refinery at Mongstad. If I turn a little further on my head, I look straight to Slövåg, which is in Yellow. There are the tankers that exploded, and the legal proceedings are now under way. These are among the facilities for which the Petroleum Control Authority is responsible. As a resident and as former rapporteur in such a municipality, one is dealing with these kinds of challenges: what happens if the major accident occurs? So what do we do? Who do we interact with? Petroleum supervision is entirely dependent on sufficient competence and resources to be able to specialise in these areas, so that they, together with the county and local authorities, can contribute to preventing this from happening. Around all of these facilities live a lot of people. Employees inside a facility and those on the platforms are specialised in HMS – health, environment and safety. But those who live in the regions around such a facility are by no means specially trained. They depend on us, as the public – whether it is the county, the county, the municipality or the Petroleum Authority – knowing enough about what to do and taking action. In some of these facilities, we increase the risk of starting CO2 deposition and management. It has also been added to the Petroleum Monitoring Board to address issues that may occur in the context of it, or to investigate whether it may be relevant. Therefore, I would just like to point out that it is important that the Petroleum Control in this round actually increases their funds and does not get to cut them, because the tasks are being expanded. In fact, I believe that the population around these eight facilities expects us to provide sufficient expertise and resources to prevent major accidents, which have consequences for the population, from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2514	I take the floor to clarify a solid misunderstanding that Steinar Gullvåg presented here from the pulpit instead. First, the Progress Party is accused of being a bully, and now they've also been accused of trickling and admitting numbers. I have to say it's something surprising, and I don't know if it's a misunderstanding, or if it's an attempt to suspect other representatives' posts. In the case of drunkenness, it's not like the Progress Party is ripping away the insured. What the Progress Party is doing is giving them treatment or offers that make them self-sustaining. So they're not going to disappear, but they're going to disappear from the social security budgets. When I compare it to being drunk, it's often like if you look behind the scene at what's happening there, you see how it happens. You can see that with these people who may have come to work, you can see that because they have been offered an offer. In the alternative budgets of the Advance Party, as mentioned earlier, much better health services have been provided, patients are given prompt treatment, so that they do not go for months and wait. Today they actually go so long that they become dissatisfied. The proposals of the Progress Party make them self-sustaining, and then they disappear out of the social security budget. It's not drunk, it has a natural explanation. I would at least have asked myself about the number lineing. I have not admitted that and not said that, and that is of course not what it is about. We'll organize, and we'll show it in our budgets. If the government parties do not believe in all the measures that we have taken and that we have strengthened, they cannot believe in their own policies either. The government parties do a lot of the same thing, just too little. Who is it that says the exact amount of health care or the amount of action is right? The government itself says that it wants to do much more. Then they also have to believe that doing more works. We believe that it is important to have progress in this. When we see more and more young people becoming dissatisfied, and we see that more and more people live by social happiness over time, it is urgent to take these measures, because the longer one waits, the more things come in the situation that they live by social security and do not come back. It is much harder once you have had a disability, to come back to work again. It is hopeless for those who are young disabled and who have never been out of work after a few years of work. This is the situation we are trying to avoid taking action, and it is these measures that make the social security population disappear from the social security budget. So Steinar Gullvåg likes to have fun with this further, but what I want to say is that things have their natural explanation. That's what you have to think about, and don't think that the only way to solve things is by choosing your own choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2525	There are several of the posts that made me take the floor. But let me start with the representative Henriksen, who almost mentions the policy of the Progress Party as being a medium-term policy on disability and disability. Yes, it is true that Henriksen has observed that the Progress Party wants a performance assessment of those who are unfit for work. Let me remind you what's in the Soria Moria statement. One of the objectives is to get more people back to work. Here we are talking about people who are already disabled and who you want to get back to work. How is the Government to cope if it is to understand that performance assessment is not to be carried out? I could imagine that either the Council of State or the representative can clarify. I can't quite imagine how to achieve the goal without a job performance assessment of the people involved. Then I want to decorate some of the government parties for what's happening in the field of old age. I'm really glad you're now getting rid of the abbreviation for them between 69 and 70 years. I think it's a long-term measure. The party of progress has fought for this over several years and has been voted down several times by the party of government. Now that this has been implemented, I consider that the government parties have come to meet the Progress Party in an important political area for us. In addition, I'm glad you're increasing the minimum pension of 2 G. What I'm not happy about is that you only do it for the lonely. I could have thought that you had done this for everyone. What's happening now is getting an increased income difference between the lonely and those who are married to someone who has income or an old age pension over 2 G. In addition, I could have wanted to – I hope that's the next thing we can do and support from the government parties – to get rid of the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. Then I would like to say a few words about what the representative Trettebergstien had to say in his post. Yes, it is true that the Progress Party is not against the qualification programme, but against the social benefits. Why should it be that in 2010, 9600 of the social welfare recipients are going to get an extra benefit, when we know that there are about 110,000 other social welfare recipients in addition to these? They should have the same requirement and the same expectations of being followed up in order to have the opportunity to return to work. I don't quite understand that rhetoric, that you almost have to drop these people as a lotto ball and then pull out the lucky ones. In any case, there will be errors according to our policy. That is why we want to have a qualification programme and norm social assistance rates for all, and that everyone should have the same offer. I hope that was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2536	Yeah, it'll show up in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2539	First, I want to give you an explanation and two challenges. The explanation is simply the simple fact that it's a collective term to call it the right-hand side. So it's good to remember that there's a difference on the right hand side, for example. concrete on what our friends in the Progress Party and the Right think. Just to take two things – point 1: We have concluded both the idea and the principles behind the qualification programme. Point 2: The right has strengthened, as I said earlier today, the Labour Inspectorate by 10 million. in its alternative budget just to give the Labour Inspectorate a clearer and stronger responsibility to prevent social dumping. Then there were the two challenges, because there are two challenges that have come from the pulpit that have not been answered. One is why one cannot participate in a stronger effort in job-less people and in action places for them, when we know that the waiting time has gone up by 50 days last year. When you know that there are 90,000 people who say they want to do more, but who don't get an offer, there should be something you could be involved in. The second challenge is that I hope the Council of State uses the chance to clarify a little bit for the Stortinget what is the Government's attitude to exactly the kind of pilot projects that have been carried out in Mandal. It took a long time for the municipality of Mandal to get started. Now there are other municipalities that are interested in doing something the same. From the government team we were told earlier that the centre party was of course positive to that type of experiment. It would have been interesting to hear whether the Government can confirm or disclaim whether it applies to the Government as well. So in 1 minute and 21 seconds to some of the main points: when the financial crisis came to Norway, it was like billions of dollars were lost at the Oslo Stock Exchange. These days, differences in Norway decreased. I don't think any poor people in Norway were cheering about it. My point is not that we should not have a discussion about those who make a lot or a lot of money in Norway. Right is more than welcome to a discussion about social responsibility, even a discussion about fair taxes, a discussion about greed culture. The point is that when we talk about poverty, about those that fall completely outside, there's a completely different discussion than talking about the glass ceiling. When we talk about the gaps in our welfare society, there's a different discussion than how high people should be able to fly – to say it very simply. I also want to remind the representatives of the Government that, although unemployment levels in Europe are high, it is not, in fact, the European Parliament we are sitting in, but the Norwegian economy, and in Norway we have enough problems. I don't think all the 90 000 disabled people trust the government. I don't think all the many dissatisfied kids trust the government. I don't think the many young social clients who have come to the last few years trust the government. I don't think the many young people who now experience losing their jobs and becoming unemployed trust the government. We shouldn't focus on 1919, that's what happened 90 years ago, but on what we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2554	First to the representative, the Red Isaac: I just want to remind you that all three red-green parties went to the elections that we should use the Community's funds in this way that we should bet on measures and not on taxes. In fact, the government was given confidence to continue. I think that more people see that if we're going to get good action for those who fall outside society, the way is to go building the welfare community stone by stone, not bet on giving tax lights or other things that make the differences in Norway just increase. I took the floor because the representative Janne Fardal Kristoffersen from the Right challenged me to say something about why we had not contacted Mandal. I think most people who have heard me in debates in this room and in other contexts when we have discussed sick leave have heard that I have said that I want to be open to look at very many measures. That is why I have also mentioned Mandal in many of my articles, precisely so that we can gain experience from actions that we have seen in Mandal and in similar places. The government has had an active cooperation with Kommune-Norge, precisely because Kommune-Norge has had a high level of sick leave. There has been a large programme, the Quality Municipality project, where over 100 municipalities have been involved, and where sick leave has been the focus of most municipalities. Now we're evaluating that project. It will give us useful experience, just as the Mandal project will when we can get experience from it in a little bit. The government has a high level of action, and we will continue to do so. Then I believe that the people who work in the Nav system with the individual are the best people who can put the right measures in place. That's why we haven't put any watertight bulkheads between the different arrangements. If it turns out that there is a need to pay more attention to those with reduced working capacity than what we have as a measure, it will actually be possible to do so. It's true that we've had an increase in the clearance around it. This is because we spend more time working and finding the right measures for the individual. I see that we would like to do it faster, but actually it's also quite important that we spend so much time clarifying that the things we're doing are actually the active measures. I think we have too often heard about people who go from action to action precisely because no time has been taken to make the thorough assessment necessary for the action to be correct. I think that must be right, not just for the individual, but it will also be a more correct way to spend the money of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2565	I wanted to take the floor because I have looked at the suggestions in the vote. In the last period, I joined the Labour and Social Committee and was naturally sent to many panel debates on these issues. Then it is quite provocative to see that there are some proposals here that the government parties do not support, but that in the election campaign were matters that the guaranteed ones should put in place. The Disabled People's Association and the Disabled People's Association had many such debates, and after the election they have put out on their websites what was said in these debates. They were surprised at the touching consensus that was in the panel debate. I was just as surprised, because the government parties had voted against these things for four years, but now they were suddenly in favour. Then I see that they're still against. I think it's actually a little rude to use the election campaign to tell about a policy that they don't really stand for. Removing the age limit for aids was one of the things, aids for training and stimulation. I was honest, I was the only one who said in that debate: you know what, I can't promise that! That's not what's at the top of the Progress Party list above what we want to get through. That's not the most important thing for us, but I'll take it with me. I now see that the government parties who were going to get this in place have obviously changed their mind. Service dogs: I attended a debate at Hamar. More people sitting on the Stortinget today, it was. It was probably more than me who put some tears in our eyes when we were told what life was like with or without a dog. We also heard about those who had been dissatisfied for several years, who were now in both full-time and 70 p.m. jobs – there were two different people who told us about it – because of service dogs. For four years I have been doing this tiny budget tab. The government parties were supposed to put it in place last year, but we're standing on the ground resting. Those who have dogs, and who are dependent on dogs, now have dogs that go off with retirement pretty soon, to summer. They're in despair. One young girl told us that her alternative was to move back to the institution where there's 24 hour shift to take care of her. Now she lives at home because the dog can take care of her if she stops breathing. I think it is sad that we cannot be a little more sober in the election campaign, so that our voters can get what they expect, even when the election is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2580	I think that the representative of Kjønaas Kjos needs to get a little better into the setting here, because it actually says about Project Service Dogs. We ask that the guidelines for the planned project be reviewed. It shall be implemented and users shall be involved in the planning and evaluation of the scheme. So there's been changes in the committee. I think you should look at that. So I guess it's like this: I didn't hear that the Advance Party traveled around in the election campaign and explained to its constituents about cuts, for example. in the disability, as they now present. The discussion about how much money you have can be bad and difficult. But it is clear that it is possible for some parties to set up budgets that are not calculated – and the problem with the budget of the Progress Party is that it has not been calculated. You have calculated the cost of the measures you take, but you've figured out how much you save on it. You've found a lot of billions, and then you've got a lot of billions to spread over a lot of good things. I wish it were like that, but it's not like that! All parties have received their budgets calculated by the Ministry of Finance. This has been done by SV for as long as I have been sitting on Stortinget, and then we have to deal with proper numbers. These are not proper numbers, and then this becomes a kind of budget that is difficult for others to deal with. There has been some talk about work performance assessment here, and there are some who are trying to spread the impression that when we introduce work performance assessment, it should not apply to everyone. Yes, I do. In the law, in the preparatory work and in what we worked with in the previous period, it's so that it applies to everyone. But what we don't do, but as the Progress Party does, is force people who go on disability to go to Nav and be assessed for their ability to work, and for example. loss of social security if they are found to have a small residual working capacity. Where is the labour market that will receive all these thousands of disabled people who have said that the Progress Party with a pen stroke in its budget is going to go out to work? There is no such thing as working life. We want people with disabilities to be able to come to Nav and ask for help and measures to get out of work, and to keep their disability idle for ten years if they want to try their way into work. That's what we want. So to the discussion of sick leave: there have been many good attempts around. Mandal has been mentioned. The Manifesto tank, which is the left-hand think tank – unlike the one often referred to by the Red Isaac representative, Civita – has produced some of these examples. I can mention another, the municipality of Harstad – right-hand drive – that has a lot of arrangements with 3-3 tournaments in a nursing home, which has meant that sick leave has gone straight down, and where people have actually also got bigger jobs. I'm not afraid to advertise it at all. All these positive measures should be looked at, and I also encourage the Council of State to do so. [[The President clubs.]] These are good measures that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2593	Even good measures must be presented within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2597	When the Progress Party cuts up to $9 billion in the social security budgets, we've heard that it's neither drunk nor trickling. The magic form is that it comes of itself – naturally. Then it's actually necessary to look at what comes of itself in a completely natural way. For example, when you cut into social security for disabled people, that means that under 60 000 people have to be in work from day one, i.e. from 1 January 2010, for the budget cuts of the Progress Party to be made – or with a half-yearly effect, the double number. This means that sick leave must be greatly reduced, and the representative Eriksson referred to 10 pst. in a line change with me. So your sick leave has to be reduced by 10 pst. from day one – from 1 January 2010 – if the section of the Progress Party is to be joined. Is it the case that the Progress Party does not have time to wait for the investigations to be carried out by the parties to the subsequent negotiations on a new IA agreement to be able to deliver results? But that is the reason why these social security cuts are so famous, namely that the economic policy of the Progress Party would have led to lower unemployment, lower sick leave and fewer disability, which is so alarming – i.e. more of the policies that have created unemployment throughout the Western world. That policy is what should give the previously referred natural effects. This isn't hanging out in the jump. So to the representative of the Red Isaac who allowed himself to believe that they were unemployed and the unemployed were not proud of the Workers' Party. We've recently held a choice that shows that that's exactly what they did. That is why they voted in the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2606	Robert Eriksson has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2609	I think it is quite remarkable to hear what comes from the representative of Gullvåg, that it is almost the Progress Party – the only party that has not been in government – that is responsible for the high unemployment rate, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe. There are then limits to the influence of an opposition party in small Norway. In that case, it must mean – if the policies of the Progress Party have provided for this – that the governments and the majority in office have implemented the policies of the Progress Party. That's the only logical way to cover that reasoning. I don't think that's the case, I guess that's not right. However, Gullvåg is quite right in saying that the policy of the Progress Party – and that is very carefully observed by the representative Gullvåg – would have led to lower unemployment and less sickness pay because we would have treated more people out of the health queue, which would have led to shorter sick leave, and not least we would like to carry out a review of the disability benefit in order to get more of the disabled out of work. When we listen to many of the young people who have stood up in the media this fall, they say that the worst thing that happened was to be put on passivity. Rather, they should have wanted activation, which could have led to their being in the labour market rather than to disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2616	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2619	That was probably a confused explanation; it was not possible to understand or find any system in the Progress Party's justification for their budgets. No one has claimed that the Progress Party is responsible, either in Europe or in Norway, but the point is that the political solutions proposed have been tried elsewhere with much worse results than we have in Norway. That's what we're saying. Those who try these solutions have higher unemployment, they have more poor people, they have bigger problems in the economy, they have bigger differences between people, and we don't want that. We do not – nor do we see the need – want to force people who are at disadvantage and who want to do so into an unsafe situation. We want to make it possible for them to get to Nav, both to be able to work and to have their opportunities monitored and to get help and action there to get to work. But we don't want to threaten to take away from them the security, because there isn't a working life there ready to accept all of these people. Labour force surveys are on the contrary now showing that the labour market is more demanding than it has been for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 903]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2643	I'm going to be a flashy card. I will just deal with the proposal that the Progress Party has made and that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2648	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 915]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2667	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In this context, the President will draw attention to the fact that when five lines are assigned, they can of course be used by all the parties represented in the Stortinget, but when lines are drawn, they will be proportionally distributed to the largest parties if they have signed before they request less lines. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2678	The background to this matter is the Government's work on developing a comprehensive labour and welfare management. The majority endorsed the new Labour and Welfare Administration Act in the treatment of St.prp. No 46 for 2004–2005, New Labour and Welfare Administration. The formal frameworks have been attached to common premises and provisions ensuring cooperation and privacy. The establishment of a common first-line service provided by both State and local authorities has created a need for legislation to support the coordination and coordination of the overall provision of the Nav Office. Joint management shall enhance quality, promote user-friendliness and accessibility and make the process less bureaucratic and more efficient. There has been a need for better regulation of the legal aspects of labour and welfare management. The case was sent to the hearing, and a majority supported the proposal to place the social services law’s financial benefits and employment services in a separate law for the municipality of Nav. With this law, Nav employees will have a better basis for providing better and more coordinated help to users. The time that the Committee has had to deal with the matter has been short, but with great flexibility and goodwill from members of the Committee it has done well. Thanks to the members for the goodwill and effort, so that we have got this case up to today! The government parties in the committee noted that the legislative proposal did not include any formulation focusing on vulnerable children and young people. For us, it was important to make visible the Government's commitment to children and young people also in this law, in line with what has been done in other areas of administration, for example. i Ot. pp. No 84 for 2008-2009, About the Law on Changes in the Health Personnel Act, etc. and in Ot. pp. [[follow-up of children as a relative]] No 53 for 2006–2007, About the Act amending the Patient Rights Act, etc. [[Sustainability guarantee for children and young people under 23 years of age with mental or drug dependence and adjustments following drug reform]] The government set up in 2007 National Children’s Competence Network, Children’sBest, in the Southern Hospital. I would also like to refer to the focus that children and young people have received in Soria Moria II, which is the government's political platform. Several chapters point to the special needs of children and young people, as well as to the need for children and young people to receive better coordinated assistance from different parts of the system. Some families seeking help with Nav have several challenges. Early professional assessment of children’s exposure, their potential needs and their need for assistance are good prevention. Not least, it is important for the everyday life of the individual boy or girl. I am pleased that the entire committee joined our proposal for the addition of Section 1 of the Act, which reads: «The law shall contribute to the provision of a comprehensive and coordinated service to vulnerable children and young people and their families.» In addition to the majority voting, the parties Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have their own proposals that they want to make. I recommend here the majority's motion for a resolution in the vote on Mr Prop. 13 L — Law on social services in labour and welfare management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2707	The Progress Party notes that the Government sees the need for closer coordination and is now taking a step towards making what is in Nav visible. There is a lot of evidence that the establishment of the Nav offices would have had fewer problems if everything had been under state responsibility with one employer from the start, and it is a pity that the Government would not go further than to establish a new law. As the previous speaker said, there is a quite comprehensive set of tasks within this law. No problems are solved as long as administrative responsibilities are maintained as shared responsibilities. But government funding would solve many problems, both for users and for those employed at the Nav offices. There are some areas where there are still major problems, and I would like to mention one, Chapter 2, Section 3, about the municipality's responsibility for carrying out the tasks that have not been added to a government body, the provision of services by law to all those who are in a municipality. In the case of older people who live part of the year in their cabins and who are in need of home care and hospitalisation, the legal text is very unclear. No matter how it's interpreted, it's going to be wrong. This also applies to other areas where municipalities are responsible for providing services, but where they have not received funding to cover their costs. Paragraph 11, Grants from the State, states that the State: ‘shall provide an annual framework grant to cover part of the expenditure of the municipality. The grants are distributed through the income system of the municipalities». In fact, the income system is the main cause of the large differences and will continue to prevent Nav from providing equivalent services throughout the country. The gap between what the State provides and what is expected of the municipalities is increasing and will continue to increase. The Progress Party has no faith that a change in the law establishing the concept of ‘municipality’ in the Labour and Welfare Act will contribute to the achievement of the objective of better, coherent and more coordinated services. In order to achieve a better integration of the tasks of the municipality in Nav, it is necessary to transfer responsibility for the tasks to the State department and to pool responsibility into one and the same law with state funding. Nor will the Party contribute to the division of social assistance beneficiaries into two groups by providing a group with a different type of social benefit when they receive qualification assistance. I choose to call it qualification help, because that's help to get to work they get. The Progress Party will oppose the present draft new law and will not take a position on the proposals presented in the Chamber. We also ask the Government to: ‘Propose legislative proposals that integrate the municipal tasks assigned to Nav into a Law on State Responsibility under the Administrative Responsibility of Nav’. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2737	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2740	It is a sensible amendment to the Social Services Act that is being adopted today, so that the municipality services in Nav are adapted to the purpose and purpose of the reform, and I hope that this will help the Nav reform to move forward with better welfare services to users. However, as described by the Department, the amendment of the law is only a legislative amendment. In fact, the proposition states that the input of hearing bodies to material changes has not been assessed in the work on the proposition. I have difficulties in understanding why the Government has let go of an opportunity to also make so-called material changes to the law, perhaps especially because the Government hesitated so long to make the proposition that it was not treated in the previous period, as intended. That is why the right in this case has worked with improvements and submitted a proposal for this in the setting. The benefits of economic social assistance shall be of immediate assistance to people who cannot support themselves through work for a temporary period until the recipient receives a new job. The premise in the Social Services Act is that the beneficiaries per definition ready for work. If there are health reasons why you cannot work, the recipient has per person. definition of rights under the Law on People's Rights. That's why we in the Right believe it's very important that someone who comes to the social office quickly clears up their working capacity. We all know that long-term inactivity is harmful and can lead to ill health, impair working ability and the ability to move on. In order to strengthen social service obligations towards users, the Right will have an individual follow-up plan within three months. The right-hand proposal is to be seen as a mutual obligation between the social office and the recipient for such a plan to be drawn up, with user involvement in the instruments. The main premise of welfare is that the right should follow the obligation. A rapid clearance of the beneficiaries of the benefits shall lead to the provision of benefits of public health protection to them with a disability. In addition, the premise shall be that beneficiaries under the Social Services Act are initially healthy workers. Therefore, it is also quite natural that the enhancement of the rights of users to individual levels is followed by a corresponding obligation to activity. Therefore, the Right proposal to introduce a general obligation of activity for social assistance beneficiaries is encouraged. This is particularly important for young people without a job. Experience from municipalities where the obligation to work is used shows that this is a very good welfare offer to the individual, which quickly increases its motivation and qualification to get into work and become self-sufficient. Both Right's proposals follow up on earlier initiatives from us. When we made similar proposals in the previous period, the Progress Party also agreed with our proposals, but we have heard their justification for not following up now. Finally, I would like to deal with the way in which we in the Committee have been forced into this matter. As mentioned at the outset, the proposition should have been dealt with in the previous period, but due to inexplicable inflexibility in the Government, it was delivered after the Storting had split up. This led to the case being brought to the new Labour and Social Committee. However, in view of the Government's plan for entry into force, the proposal had to be expressed in the Committee at the same time as a new committee examining its first government budget for that department. When the Government chooses to forward cases in this way, it makes it difficult to deal with the Storting. And when the majority, on behalf of the Government, provides for short time-limits of procedure, the work is perceived to be unpleasant. This is best seen in the work on the proposals that have been put forward by the Right, where we early sent questions about legal assistance, but where the response from the department did not come before the matter was to be given, and then it came after several reminders from our side. The assistance otherwise opened up for more questions, but there was no time left. This should not be the case when we are dealing on behalf of the people with laws that are important to our welfare society. The next time the Government and the majority in this Chamber conduct such an irresponsible trial period, we will use our right-hand side access to appeal to the Presidency. Then I take up the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2759	The representative Sylvia Graham has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2762	I want to focus on the purpose of the law that says: ‘The aim of the law is to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged people, to contribute to social and economic security, including the possibility for individuals to live and live independently, and to promote transition to work, social inclusion and active participation in society.’ And then, now that we've got an addition: «The law shall contribute to the provision of a comprehensive and coordinated service to vulnerable children and young people and their families. The law shall contribute to equality and equality and prevent social problems.’.» This is a very broad purpose, for which Nav has to work. This means that you must have a very wide focus when providing assistance to the individual or to the individual family. It's very important to stress this, because it often happens when we're talking about Nav, that it's kind of just about work, but the way to work is often long too many, and you need to have a very complex and broad focus to get it to. Dwelling is now placed in responsibility for Nav, as a contributing responsibility. It's important. Everyone understands that if you don't have a safe place to live, it's a little difficult to get control of other parts of your life, and some of the measures we put in might be a little pointless if you don't have a place to live. What we also have now is supervision and internal control over social assistance. It's been missing. It's a little alarming, to say the least, that the most vulnerable in society are those who have had the least legal protection in this area, and still lack full access to justice in the area of social assistance. The SV's opinion is that it has to go further. But what is now in place is important, because it is of course important that the county is supervised by how Nav manages the social services law and the actions against the most disadvantaged. It turns out that there is a big difference between how this is done in different municipalities. Some people do this very well – they succeed well – while others report quite tragic stories, which I am sure most people in this room have heard about, both about the lack of rights and how to treat people. That's why it's important that this comes into place. So to the suggestions that have been made. Social assistance should be a short-term benefit, as it was said. For some it isn't. But it's unreasonable to impose on everyone who's going to get into social assistance, a plan, for some people are there for a short time, and that's good. They need help in a shorter period. But that's the way the representative Graham says, that in the municipalities where you've used this, where you've put conditions and activity for those who're on social welfare, it's worked well. Yes, it does, and it shows that the law opens up for this today. So it's completely possible to do this where it's appropriate, and I'm going to encourage everyone to do the most of it. I mean, it's very good. But I'm against the coercion that lies in it, especially because this proposal has in it all the time, as the representative from the Right says, a right and duty-thinking process, where one later as if people who are on social assistance are in an equal position with the administration. So you're not. You're in a very inferior position. And I'm absolutely sure that if you're presented for good action quickly, people choose that. It turns out they're actually doing it. I've been in a lot of discussions with the Right about this, and it kind of boils down to: Does the Right mean you're going to take away social assistance from people if they don't agree to this? And in the debates I've been in so far, the Right says that no, they don't intend to do that. Then my question is, what in the world is the difference between what they are now proposing, and what is actually the law as it can be practiced today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2785	The government has put forward proposals for the social services law in the management of labour and welfare. The law is presented as a new law, but the content is generally well known. Most of the legal provisions proposed in this Act are currently contained in the Social Services Act, Chapter 5 on social benefits and in Chapter 5A on the Qualification Programme. It is more about systematic restructuring than about an actual legislative change. However, the actual changes proposed are important enough. They will strengthen the legal certainty of users. The background to this proposal is, as it is said, the Nav reform. An important element in this is the establishment of a Joint Office for Labour and Welfare Services in all the municipalities of the country. The government believes that it makes sense to regulate the municipal services that are mandatory in the Nav Office in a separate law. This will make the legislation more accessible, both for employees and not least for users. In addition, some changes are proposed to modernise the language and clear the concept. These adjustments do not involve changes in the content of the law. The proposed law will regulate the right to social welfare benefits, the qualification programme with related social benefits and temporary housing. These are municipal services currently regulated by the Social Services Act, which are compulsory in the Nav offices. In addition, the law contains rules on the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality and some procedural rules. What is new in the proposal, and therefore the most important, are two things: firstly, it is stated that the county should be able to supervise the administration of the services regulated by the law by the municipalities. Under current law, the administration of this part of social services by municipalities is not supervised. Today, the county councillors depend on some complaints before they can assess how the municipalities are exercising their responsibilities for these provisions. With this proposal, the county councillors will be able to assess the administration of municipalities in general and point out errors and shortcomings on their own initiative. This must then be borne in mind by the municipalities and make the adjustments that they consider necessary. Experience has shown that supervision provides greater equality both within and between municipalities. The provision of supervision will therefore contribute to the equal treatment of similar cases, irrespective of the place of residence of the recipient, thereby strengthening the legal certainty of the individual user. Secondly, it is proposed that municipalities be obliged to carry out internal controls in the areas. Proper internal controls are essential for the quality of the services provided. If you have proper control of the services provided, in the right place in the process, all stages can trust what has been done in the past. Good internal control will help users get the right service faster, and that is an advantage for everyone. The Committee's comments on this matter show that social services, such as the last safety net of society in relation to the most disadvantaged, are a matter of concern. How social services accept and help those who fall outside the wealth of most of us take for granted says a lot about what kind of society we are, and what values we bring with us. In its review, the Committee has had a particular focus on children, and proposes that consideration of children and young people and their families be included in the legal objective. Some claim that purpose rules are just beautiful words. They're wrong. In fact, the purpose of the law is to permeate its application in all areas. Fortunately, social services in municipalities have taken children into account for a long time. In its guidelines for the measurement of social benefits, the Government has clarified that children in families receiving social benefits must have a growth that is as similar to that of the other child in the environment as possible. The focus on children becomes even more visible when this is incorporated into the purpose of the law. This law is, in addition, a step towards the goal of good and constructive labour and welfare management, which uses its resources to provide users with proper help at the right time. Finally, I would like to thank the flexibility committee for having the law in port during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2808	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2812	I would like to take the last sentence of the purpose paragraph: ‘The law will contribute to equality and equality and prevent social problems.’ We know today that municipalities have very different finances, and they have very different offers for their inhabitants. As I understand it's going to continue to be like this. The government agrees that the municipalities will continue to have the responsibility they have today, and also more in the time to come. Would it not be easier for Nav to meet these intentions with one level of government than to have this divided into two levels of government? Shouldn't account be taken of the fact that users receive equivalent services throughout the country, weigh more heavily than ideological bargains to maintain the differences in municipalities and the system of prioritising municipal politicians, and not least the system of biased distribution of income?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2821	Municipalities are cornerstones of Velferds-Norway. Local authorities provide many services that users need — including those dependent on Nav services. That is why we believe it is right that the municipalities are still responsible for social assistance. Then you can make the local adjustments you think are right according to the needs of the users. For us, equal treatment does not necessarily mean that you should receive the same treatment, but that you should make adjustments to the individual user. We believe that the municipalities are the best to see these relationships – together with the other welfare schemes for which the municipalities have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2828	I think the representative Karin Andersen has a very good point when she says that as a social client you can sometimes feel inferior. I think quite simply that the vast majority of those who have experienced meeting the wall, or bureaucracy, in Norway, can sometimes feel a little inferior and a little powerless. And what it's like when you're addicted to getting somewhere to ask for money for a living, most people in here can probably just imagine. It is very often the case in Norway that our systems are large, but sometimes they can become so large that they do not have room for the individual, simply because of it. The right’s proposal to introduce a right and obligation to activity does not imply merely an obligation. That also implies a right. Today, a lot of people feel that they are almost given up by the social offices. They don't get follow-up, they don't get relief, they don't get assistance, they don't get help. My question to the Council of State is: if the Council of State sees it as positive that you have an obligation to do business, for which there is an opening in the law, is it that the Council of State sees it as a purely municipal matter? Will the Council of State send any signals from the Government that it should be used? [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs.]] And, in that case, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2837	The President asks the representative to stick to the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2840	The representative humbly apologizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2845	I share with the representative Røe Isaksen's description that it can be quite demanding to meet a public bureaucracy when you're in a vulnerable situation. That's why I think it's important that those who work at the Nav offices are good at communicating. This is highlighted in the training programmes that have been run for those who are going to work in the Nav system, so that users are treated with the utmost respect. So the question is whether it is appropriate to introduce an activity obligation for those who, as I understand the proposal from the Right, get social assistance. I think it's important to bear in mind that very many people who get social assistance get it short-term. There may be isolated events that have triggered something specific, and then I think it would be quite strange if we were to use administrative resources to create individual plans with an obligation for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2852	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 919]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2871	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2880	The attitude we are discussing today is about proposals from the Government on changes to the Law on Social Security, and some other laws. The two most important changes are linked to the 2010 draft budget, and firstly, the pension for old-age pensioners between 69 and 70 years of age is no longer subject to an income test. The second amendment involves raising the minimum benefits to the recipients of redundancy payments and transitional benefits. It is an overall committee that supports these proposals. The Committee considers in its opinion that older workers are a resource in the workplace and that it is important to motivate workers to be more active in the workplace. The proposed repeal of the rules on income testing for 69-year-olds from 1 January 2010 is the final phase of the phasing-out of the income test. In the past, the income test has been completed for 67-year-olds and 68-year-olds, in 2008 and 2009 respectively. The changes will make it more profitable to continue working and thus encourage older people to stay longer in work and extend their professional careers. 69-year-olds whose pension is curtailed today will receive a full pension in addition to labour income. It is positive, both for employees themselves, for employers and for society as a whole. For a long time, there has been a key objective of increasing the retirement age from work, such as: may be reflected in the IA Agreement. Experience shows that the combined share of work and retirement increased when the 67-year-olds were given the opportunity to combine work and retirement freely from 2008. There is every reason to believe that the same thing will happen with the increased flexibility that was put in for the 68-year-olds in 2009 and now for the 69-year-olds from 1 January next year. In its observations, the minority has referred to draft law No. 68 for 2007-2008. I perceive a wish there that this should have come two years earlier. So this is a system that has passed since 1973, and one can wonder why these parties themselves have not taken such an initiative over the 37 years of the arrangement. I'm just recording that that hasn't happened, and I'm recording that it's the red-green majority that's now getting it in place and removing this abbreviation. There is an overall committee that supports the Government’s proposal to raise the minimum benefits to recipients of redundancy payments and transitional benefits to 2 G from 1 May 2010. This will be a contribution to poverty reduction. The other proposals contained in the proposal deal with minor amendments and legislative clarifications. I will briefly highlight one of them, and it is the proposal that the qualification programme should be offered in all municipalities from 1 January 2010. This also applies in those municipalities where a Nav office has not yet been established. That's the background for the plugin you're proposing included in the law. First of all, this is an important matter for the country's work satisfaction and employing 68-year-olds, who will be able to continue working next year and retain their full pension alongside the salary they would like to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2897	I think it's quite natural for a man my age to take the floor in a case that deals with such a far-reaching reform for the seniors of society as this one, and that means, with this decision that we are making today, that the entire age group between 67 and 70 who want to work after retirement age can now make as much money as they want without reducing the pension. The fact that 68- and 67-year-olds have already passed the income test has already led several older people to work longer, which is, of course, the purpose of this amendment. Apart from the fact that it is desirable for many reasons to give older people longer opportunities to work, it is also necessary, in the interests of the sustainability of the pension system, to make it more profitable to work longer. In fact, the increase in expenditure on pensions, disability benefits, sick pay and unemployment is a threat to the growth of the Norwegian economy in the coming years. But above all, the law change that is now taking place is good senior policy. We need the seniors in the world of work, their knowledge and their experience. In some areas, we are in fact losing a competence that cannot be easily replaced overnight. For example, typical engineering establishments such as the State Road Service and the Railway Agency will notice that a few thousand engineers who were trained in the late 1960s and early 1970s are reaching retirement age in the next few years. As a consequence, infrastructure planning in society may be halted or reduced over the next decades, unless these agencies put in place senior policy measures that make pensioners more able to cope. It is a diametrically opposite situation to the policy that prevailed in the years around and after the millennia, when state enterprises were busy getting rid of older workers as part of hard-handed transformations. The costs of waiting wages, which are the subject of some attention annually in these state budgets, are precisely the result. Employers, both in the private and public sectors, are responsible for a sensible senior policy. But, of course, they're not unaffected by the framework conditions. This is why it is so important that we provide the best possible combination of social security and work so that the labour market can benefit from the knowledge and competence of the seniors. This also means that we need to work together so that it is possible for workers to step down gradually. This applies not only to older people but also to those who, for various reasons, feel that they are unable to provide 100 pst. but still want to contribute to the labour market – not least because working life is an important social arena for most of us. Yeah, not least that!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2910	At least I'll try not to extend the debate, but make it a little shorter. First, I want to refer to the article I had in the budget debate that we just finished. I am, as I said there, very happy that we are now raising the income limit for this age group, 67-69 years old. This has been suggested by our friends in both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party every year in the previous period, and the Progress Party has promoted the proposals many times in the past. As I said, I am very pleased that the government parties are now supporting a proposal that the opposition has promoted several times, and that you might see the benefit of listening to the opposition. I hope that the government parties have that ability in several matters that come in the future. Then I think we'll get good solutions for most people in Norwegian society. With that, I'll deal with the suggestions we have in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2919	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 924]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2938	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 925]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2955	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2973	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 926]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e2991	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3009	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3027	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3046	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3064	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3072	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 19 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e3080	In the course of the debate, 30 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–16, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 17-21, by Per Arne Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 22, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 23-28, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 29, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 30, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e5902	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e5920	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–28, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e5968	There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the right hand and from the Christian people. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e5985	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-19, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e6016	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20 and 21, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e6042	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-16, except for proposal No 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e6147	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e6165	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e9246	During the debate Bent Höie has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 718 Alcohol and drugs, entry 21 Special operating expenditure, are added ‘transferable’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10373	Only Chapter 718 and heading 70 under Chapter 719 are to be counted. Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against. The voting boards showed that 54 votes against and 50 votes against had been cast. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.19.53]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10382	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10387	I think there are several people who have voted incorrectly. Let's do the voting again. So the party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10402	It is then voted over the other chapters and items under I, II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10557	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10567	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10777	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10787	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10844	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10854	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10862	During the debate, 35 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 34 and 35, from Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 2–6, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 7-11, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 12-18, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposals No. 19-31, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 32, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 33, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 34 and 35, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e10913	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The State budget for 2010 is authorised under: expenditures600Employment budgets, research etc. special expenditures54 409 00050Norway research councils108 575 00070Additional resources and maintenance can be transferred under headings 21725 060 000605Employment budgets 1Operating expenditures9 388 501 00021 Special operating expenditures24 304 00045More equipment and maintenance can be transferred under headings 21725 060 000605Working budgets 1Operating expenditures9 388 501 00021Special operating expenditures24 304 00045More equipment and maintenance can be provided under headings 225 732 00070 1Operating expenditure14 300 00021Special operating expenditure, may be carried over, can be used under item 11 733 00070Aid to professional development4 000 000660War pension70Aids, military, estimate appropriations185 000 00071Aids, civilians, estimate appropriations435 000 000664Maritime allowance70Aids535 000 000666Agreements secured pension [[AFP]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13158	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for greater local governance in labour market policy, based on the models of task differentiation and with the experience of the task differentiation test in the Municipality of Oslo.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13176	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish an agent for the Administration of Labour and Welfare, Nav ombudsman, under the Ministry of Labour. The Ombudsman’s function shall be to ensure the legal certainty of the users of the labour and welfare management.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13192	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19–31, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13283	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13-18, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13332	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a system of ID cards and a registration system for clean-up establishments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13348	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 to 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13383	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a systematic review of the use of sanctions in relation to unemployment benefits, with the intention that the mobility criterion will be the basis for the use of sanctions in Nav’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13399	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 6, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13423	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4 and 5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e13453	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e15507	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. It is first put to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post PurposeCroner2661Ground and auxiliary support, tool etc.76Refinition of functional functions, as a tool for services, is increased by 9,660 000 from NOK 123 540000 to NOK 133 200000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e16943	Chapter 643 contains an aberrant proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostDestinationCrones643Work market measures50Evaluation, development measures, etc., increased by 300000 from SEK 91 500000 to NOK 91 800000» Alternatively, the vote will be taken between the vote on Chapter 643 and the proposal from the Party of Advancement, then over the other chapters of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17012	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Sylvi Graham on behalf of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17594	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17607	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17622	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17630	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17763	For II there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 26 October 2007 97 on amendments to the Social Services Act and to some other laws, the third sentence of point IV shall be replaced by the following: Notwithstanding the second sentence, Section 5A-1 of the Chapter shall apply to and including 5A-6 for all municipalities from 1 January 2010.’» Alternatively, the proposal of the Progress Party and the position of the Committee under II shall be replaced by the one under I, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17788	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17798	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17939	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17949	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17973	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 26 November 2009: ‘The government is asking the Government to raise the wage and salary obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to NOK 8 000 per year. employed.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e17994	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and the Left, presented at the Stortinget meeting on 26 November 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case, in which the many proposals of the Tax Exemption Committee are assessed as a whole and where the instruments and the amount limit in question are seen in the context before any proposals for deduction are put in place.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e18013	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and the Left, presented at the Stortinget meeting on 26 November 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case, in which the many proposals of the Tax Exemption Committee are assessed as a whole and where the relevant instruments and the amount limit are seen in the context before any proposals on the liability of the purchaser are put in place.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e18032	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right at the meeting held on 26 November 2009 by Mr Stortinget: ‘The government asks the Government to raise the limit on payroll obligations and thus the limit on tax freedom up to NOK 6000 for private employment in relation to the payer’s home and leisure dwelling.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e18051	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 26 November 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to adopt an amending regulation of 19 November 1999 No 1158 Regulation of the Tax Code, which repeals the rule on the maximum hourly rate of 500 kroner and the maximum number of hours per year for own employees of 1850 hours as from 1 January 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e18070	There is a vote on the proposal made by Mr Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 26 November 2009: ‘The government asks the Government to propose changes to the Property Tax Act which make it easier for municipalities to take social considerations into account when issuing property tax.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-08.ana.ud1921e18093	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
