ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e147	From March 24 to 26 March to attend the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Strasbourg, there is an application from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian People's Party) for the authorisation of the representative Laila Davøy. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Knut Arild Hareide, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e165	Knut Arild Hareide is present and will take the seat. The representative of Trine Skei Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e170	On behalf of the representatives of the Olemic Thommessen, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I would like to propose that the Stortinget should deal with a matter of the future arrangement and location of the National Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e175	The proposal will be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e189	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e198	In the proposal for a representative to be dealt with here, the proposers want the Government to draw up its own Energy Communication on the state of the state of the state of the state, which takes full account of energy policy and thus gives a holistic approach to this policy. The proposers continue to criticise the various aspects of the Government's energy policy and point out that the Government in several areas is not entirely in line with the ambitions of the Government's Government in the field of energy. I expect that representatives from the opposition will deepen these views in the following articles, and find no reason to go deeper into them in my post. The majority point to the fact that the main features of the Government's energy policy are reflected in the Government Declaration, and that a rather than repeating the energy policy objectives through a new growth message now should focus on getting even more policy out of hand. Here the Council of State and the Government are well under way. A series of important energy issues will come to mind in Stortinget during the spring. Over the period, the government has focused on improving energy efficiency, increasing investment in new renewable energy and heat, strengthening the Energy Fund, renewing agreements with Enova and increasing focus on offshore energy production. This is a touch of measures to help the Government to achieve the objectives set out in the Government Declaration. Increased concessional capacity in the NVE and increased focus on better network capacity can also be mentioned. The majority in the Committee share the intention to see all aspects of energy policy in context and believe that this is done by the Government, while at the same time actively and strategically working to implement the necessary steps to achieve more renewable energy, save more energy and use our energy more and more. Just as in the matter we will be dealing with here later, there is an effort to support the Council of State in the important work that is now being done, through the matters that the Council of State is currently working on. Therefore, the majority do not support the submission that at this point one should produce a ‘energy state of the kingdom’ and that the size of the kingdom is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e211	The opposition has recently spent a lot of time trying to illustrate Norwegian energy policy as lowly targeted, messy and without results. I think with respect to notifying that description is perhaps best suited to the opposition's attempts to unite on a common energy policy. Proposalers believe that one of the major challenges in the energy sector is the lack of a comprehensive, robust and long-term energy policy platform. The answer to that, of course, is Soria Moria. The overall energy policy objectives are defined, the framework for energy policy and the starting point for implementing them. A fundamental representation of the energy situation on the part of the opposition has been that Norway has a deficit in power and that it often finds itself in difficult situations. This is not the case in national law. Nationally, we have a satisfactory force coverage. In some regions, for example: Middle Norway, has been in a slightly favourable situation, mainly due to the lack of a sufficiently well-developed network. I think several of us are responsible for that situation – but the situation is at least in the process of being resolved. Production opportunities and machinery in Norway have been extended over the last major period. In 2007, we passed 30,000 MW of installed power capacity. And going into an analysis of the last ten years, we've exported on average over four TWh per. years. The average export in the last ten years represents – i.e. annually – about four times the annual consumption to my home town, Skien. Looking at the period 2005–08, we have exported nearly 35 TWh, while in the period 2001–04 – without blame for what was ahead of this government – we had a net import need of over 13 TWh. Climate change, as we already know, is going to make Norway's energy production richer. The most likely scenario for the future is that the last four years of production, to which I referred, will strengthen in the years that come. In other words, there is much to suggest that Norway will become a significant exporter of electrical energy without actually having to take concrete action. In this way, my assessment could have been that you didn't have to do anything. Of course, that's not right. The Labour Party will, of course, facilitate the exploitation of the value creation potential of the concept of new renewable energy – not freely and unimpeded, as some here call for, but within a limit where climate, nature and aesthetic considerations are emphasised. In recent years, the focus has been on support schemes as a solution for further increased power generation. The support system will, of course, be an important feature for further growth in production, but the most important will nevertheless be the size and capacity of the network. In the last four years, where net exports account for about 35 TWh, export potential is an important basis for profit and future value added. If 35 TWh had been in force in Norway in recent years, this would undoubtedly have had a significant negative impact on future investments. The exchange of power is therefore very important. The relationship between the network’s role in triggering new renewable energy will be highlighted, discussed and taken into account in the evaluation of the Energy Act – and it is right around the corner. I am optimistic both in view of the future of Norway's position as an energy nation and in view of the relationship in the Nordic region, which will be improved in the years to come. And, to conclude, I'm not against an overall energy policy action plan, but I'm against it being derived from cheap political rhetoric where the goal is to create more confusion than clarification. I also wonder that the proposal selects the term ‘energy state of the kingdom’, with a strong parallel to ‘the state of the environment of the kingdom’. I would say that the coagulation of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom does not exactly bring the country forward. I think the future will show that messages such as this. the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state has played its part and that reporting should be carried out in a different and more accessible manner. In terms of energy and water resources, we have a very good starting point in the annual OED publication on the facts about energy and water resources. It is fully possible to bring up political debates and get political clarifications based on them. I therefore share the view of the Council of State that the preparation of the state of energy will be duplication of effort and absolutely unnecessary as the situation is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e239	The debate already shows that government parties go down in old trenches – and in a well-known track. In a lot of cases, the importance of the Storting discussing an overall framework, has long-term objectives and conditions, and then you take the details gradually through groceries. But in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, where one is probably dealing with the most long-term and capital-intensive we have in this country, for one reason or another, such an approach with big business messages is just bureaucracy. So it's superfluous, the government thinks. One does not need to provide a single document from the Government for the Stortinget. We're just going to look at the Soria Moria statement and howl it, and then we were happy to get to the goal. At least that's the mantra coming. A complaint that one is not fully in line with the Soria Moria declaration, said Erling Sande. But if that's how you see the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, you don't understand what we're trying to record. What we are asking for is a comprehensive document that addresses the production aspects of Norwegian energy supply, the consumption aspects, changes expected in the future and new technologies – where are we going to put research efforts, and what relationship are we going to have with Europe in terms of energy imports and exports to see both the environment and energy side here? Nothing has been submitted to the Stortinget to discuss in recent years. And we see in the Foreign Minister's statements that the energy situation has not been mentioned. In the previous presentation, which was held only a few weeks after the last gas conflict between Ukraine and Russia, the energy situation in the EU was not mentioned at all, despite the fact that it is one of the most important issues raised by EU teams when meeting Norwegian authorities. It shows how this government has downgraded energy and petroleum issues in a larger whole, and it shows why there is a need to get a big message about the state of energy of the kingdom, so that we actually get to make some decisions. When you look at, for example, The renewable action, which is very important, and which all parties in the Storting agree that we should do something about, illustrates the weakness we have in today's situation. A four-page notification was submitted on an urgent Sunday in 2006. Most of the points in the short down-to-earth message have been scrapped today. There is almost none of it that was then hailed as the largest renewable energy investment ever in Norway, which remains today. And that's all that's come. There has not been a single other direction message from the Government. When you're out talking to the trade unions, you're confirmed that the picture drawn from the government parties here is not shared by the industry. And there's a significant weakness in the way we run politics in Norway, that the government is so busy saying that this is going on the rails, here we have the Soria Moria statement, and we're directing in the right direction, while everyone who is going to deal with these guidelines says that this is not the case. Last Wednesday I was in Ålesund at the Annual Meeting of the Small Forces Association. They said that there has not been a single positive decision by this government that has helped this industry. It is true that the Central Party has celebrated with soft cake because they have managed to reverse a decision, from this government – and then a back on the spot was resting. But no new steps have been taken in a particularly positive direction, rather on the contrary. The annual meeting of the wind power association last year pointed out the same thing. The objective of 3 TWh wind power adopted by the Government is not likely to be achieved by 2010. With the current level of progress and progress in the project area, one may be able to achieve this in 2014/2015. I was in Telemark and visited AT Skog a couple of weeks ago. They are now considering putting their bioenergy bet on hold. They give the Government the best character in rhetoric and the worst character in instruments and implementation. And that is the point: there is no match between the policy objectives set and the instruments presented. The same could also be said in the discussion on the EU's renewable directive, where the representative Aasland just said that Norway has more than enough power – we export. Then one has to ask: what are we going to do every day with more renewable energy, if one is convinced that we have it going to last – especially when one takes with it that Ola Borten Moe, head of the nutrition committee, says that Norway should cut cables abroad? What in all days are we going to do with renewable energy? Is it only for us to run the power prices in zero, which Norwegian power customers and Norwegian industry would enjoy, but which would certainly not lead to the energy industry having anything to bet on? When you look at the situation in Middle Norway, which will continue to be like that in the next five to six years, when you look at what you can experience in Finnmark, and what you can experience in Hordaland, the point is that although there is no crisis today, although this year actually draws to be quite good, there is a need to get an overall mechanism, so that we avoid the debate we had in 2006, when this government really got bad – but the power customers even worse. I refer to the proposal where the Progress Party is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e262	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e265	When we look around, we see that the debate on energy policy, climate policy and environmental policy is shaping the agenda everywhere. It is the world’s biggest challenge to cope with the increased demand for energy, and to combine it with the shift from fossil to renewable society – to manage increased demand for energy while addressing the climate challenge. This marks the agenda all around us, but not at home, because it is not opportune to discuss this at home. I think the representatives of the government parties should decide what they really want on these issues. So we have spent three years in any political debate, insofar as there has been an energy debate in Stortinget – there have not been many of them, there has hardly been any – referring to the coming energy message. It will address the major and long-term political issues. But today, the message is that no, we don't really need this, because in a way we don't have these big problems, we have surplus power in Norway, and the situation is actually that we can lower our shoulders. This is in stark contrast to what you have promised, and what you have indicated. In the past, the entire industry and the Norwegian people have been told what to present in this area. A single political signal has not been given with regard to all the objectives adopted by the Storting on where we will be within a few years in the field of renewable investment. Has there been any indication of a single road, a single solution, that will bring the nation out of the start block with regard to the objective of achieving 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016? We all know the answer, and that's of course no. Today, when you just choose to postulate that the opposition, in a familiar style, promotes these proposals, and that there is cheap political rhetoric, I think you should ask yourself whether this is cheap political rhetoric. Should not the representatives of the position parties themselves have been faced with the ambitions that have been shared in adopting earlier in the Storting and that relate to how far we are going in this area? When we look around us, whether it's in our neighbouring countries, in the EU system, in the United States, with Obama and Congress discussions about how this is going to be a main field of action, I think it's almost embarrassing to see that today's government has chosen to phase these questions out of the Storting. It is quite clear that, of course, it is the power that is involved, including in these issues. But from this to phase these questions out of the Storing and treatment there, I think it's a rough piece of political work – but that's actually where we are. The fact that the Storting is disconnected and disconnected as the arena to discuss the ambitions of the energy nation of Norway in this area in the future is quite strange – that the Storting should not be the arena to discuss the political issues and the political ambitions in the future in the area where we are the best, where we are the foremost, where we have our richest resources and our greatest economic potential, and where we can really make greater efforts for the international community. If that's how this is perceived as cheap political rhetoric, we'll have plenty of opportunity to get back to these questions outside the storeroom in the months ahead of us. And we will, at least to the extent that it is possible to clarify what the individual parties within the Government stand for in these questions, also have ample opportunity to come back to that. However, there is a deplorable procedure that has been chosen to launch to the Storting in terms of questions. Pointing back to what was written in 2005, when we now move towards 2010, is far from a satisfactory answer to the questions posed by this whole challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e283	I want to start my post with a quote from the oil and energy minister's own party trap, Ola Borten Moe. When it became known that the planned wind farm in Outer Vicna in December of last year received once again a rejection of the application for aid from Enova, he said the following to the Address Paper: ‘A major defeat for the Government. It will not be very easy for us in the government parties in central Norway to conduct a campaign next year after this." And on the other hand, ‘If we are unable to do so, Mid-Norway will be taken into account in its generality and energy policy, in particular the weakest point of the Government.’ I believe that energy policy is a sign of becoming the weakest point of this government, despite fierce competition from some other policy areas. Since the 2005 elections, we have had three different oil and energy ministers, all of whom have worked hard to scrape the predecessor’s projects. Former Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoxen was to provide a renewable energy support scheme which was at least as good as the Green Certificate Scheme. The system was slaughtered the same day it was launched, and it was never approved by ESA. Former State Council Åslaug Haga was to resume negotiations with Sweden on green certificates and, in the meantime, put in place a scheme that was as good as the green certificate scheme. Negotiations are well under way and the investment aid from Enova is far from delivering the results that the certificate market would have provided. Former State Council Haga had a congstack of designing an overall energy message where for the first time one would see the whole energy sector together – a good congstank, I now think. The current oil and energy minister started by scrapping the energy message and set himself a goal of clearing the desk for overcoming issues. This meant abandoning everything that was not strictly necessary, and the development of an overall strategy for energy policy falls under the ‘unnecessary’ category. The question one has to ask is whether it is possible to have a more pragmatic approach to a policy area as central as energy policy, after all, is for Norway. Norway is a major energy nation. And more than we need to clear the desk, we need a government and a state council that shows the direction of Norwegian energy policy in the coming years, and that is updated after what was written in 2005. An overall strategy is a prerequisite for making the right choices and for choosing the right ones. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party for a communication on the State of Energy. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in their time, introduced the state of the state of the state of the State in the Ministry of the Environment. The state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state is notified every two years. With respect to reporting, I think that the representative of the Workers' Party has a little too simple attitude to the announcement of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the significance it has of the environmental work we have done in recent years. I believe that a similar arrangement in the Ministry of Oil and Energy could help to raise a more constructive and strategic debate on Norwegian energy policy. Perhaps it could have lifted Norway out of the action that we are experiencing today. It is surprising to hear the representative of Terje Aasland say that he is not opposed to a message about the state of energy of the kingdom, but that it should not be derived from cheap political rhetoric. But it's not! After all, it was the king's idea – or the queen's idea – to former councillor Åslaug Haga, and that was a good idea. It was she who pointed out that one had to see this sector together, in order to take the overall discussions here in the Storting. At least this is not the result of an external political rhetorical game — perhaps internally. It doesn't tell history anything about yet. But that this is a result of cheap political rhetoric, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e308	In view of the visions and ambitions of the former government council, Åslaug Haga, when it comes to energy policy, it is incomprehensible to me that today's government does not want to produce an overall document on the state of energy, as proposed by the proposers. It seems that Hagas' wish to have a comprehensive policy in this area is now replaced by a day-to-day policy in which one takes matters as they have to appear. That is a regrettable change. That is why the proposal before us today is important. We are facing very key challenges in energy policy. There is a need for clarification, and there is a need for holistic thinking. In particular, there is a need for an update of energy policy in the light of the climate communication and in the light of the climate challenges we face. But the government's policy in this area is, instead, strongly influenced by the fact that we have had three different state councils that have been responsible for this area. The government’s policy — or lack of policy — is also clearly marked by the disagreement between the government parties in this area, and the policy is marked by a lack of coherence between what one says one should do and what one actually does. Most clearly, one might see this latest in the field of renewable energy policy, where very little is happening that triggers new production, while rhetoric goes on that one has a much higher level of ambition than one actually delivers. There is today a need to review the potential and objectives of the different energy technologies and a plan for their systematic deployment. It is said that the government's policy has been clarified – it is clarified in the Soria Moria Declaration, so there is no doubt about which policy is involved. It is not in line with the debate that one can follow in the newspapers and in other media. A few days ago, Ola Borten Moe – no unsentral person for the government parties, and the head of the nutrition committee – went out and said he was against the construction of cable capacity from Norway to other countries. It is a fundamental issue in energy policy, and it is the opposite of that, for example. The representative of Terje Aasland signaled. What is the case with the government parties? It might be useful to get a copy of such a document, so that you don't have to listen to radio from day to day to follow what the different parties think, and sum it up at best to try and get a picture of what the government's policy is. It should have been clarified in such an overall document. It was also a rather eye-catching post that Terje Aasland made today. The entire rhetoric of the Workers' Party, that we have a strong underbalance in terms of energy supply, and that we therefore need gas power plants etc., is now replaced by a sort of backward attitude that we really have the energy production we need – we can get more, but it's not triggered by a need. That argument I have made myself a spokesman for the past, that we should be able to meet our own needs, but we need to increase production, for our ambition should be to be a significant net exporter in a normal year. However, when a Terje Aasland rhetoric compares today with Jens Stoltenberg's rhetoric when a man worked out the gas power plant, it is a diametrically opposite way of thinking. It's spectacular, and I actually see the slightly backward attitude again in the government's lack of commitment when, for example. renewable energy production. I also took note of Terje Aasland's view of the state of the state of the state of the state, which he thought had expired on that date. I look forward to representatives from the Government clarifying whether that is their policy, or whether this is enough of a statement that, in terms of energy and environmental policy, it is the law that every person should design the policy you want at all times, and then get one who can best, sum up what is the whole of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e323	The government presented the main features of its energy policy action plan in the Soria Moria Declaration. There we base what is the basis for the government's work in this magnificence period. The overall energy policy drawn up in the Soria Moria Declaration is firm, and policies have already been followed up by comprehensive measures. We will also present several important issues for the Storting during this spring. During the period 2006-2008 there has been a significant increase in production capacity in Norwegian electricity production. There might be a slightly different picture than what's drawn in the Storing here today. Furthermore, many new concessional projects are located in the NVE. It was also a bottleneck that the government had to clean up when we took over the government power. The government has facilitated the efficiency and strengthening of the concession treatment of new projects through increased funding for the NVE. During 2009, the concessional capacity of the NVE will have doubled compared to 2005. There is also a stronger prioritisation between issues to ensure that NVE’s concession treatment capacity is used as efficiently as possible. Priority is given to projects which can contribute rapidly to strengthening security of supply, particularly in vulnerable regions, and criteria have been developed to give priority to the least conflict-filled and most realistic wind power projects in each network region. We have therefore provided a good basis for a further increase in electricity generation in the years ahead. Long-term efforts to promote environmentally friendly energy solutions are an important part of this energy policy. In the 2009 government budget, the Basic Fund increased by DKK 10 billion. The government proposed to strengthen the commitment to the environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and production by a further DKK 1.2 billion in 2009 through a package of measures presented earlier this year. The proposal implies that activity in all areas of energy conversion can be increased. Overall, the transfer to the Energy Fund in 2009 will amount to approx. NOK 2.6 billion in 2009. It's more than three times as much as the 2005 bet, which was the last year under the previous government. For me, there is more energy conversion in it than it is in relation to any discussion about messages or not. As part of the work on environmentally friendly energy solutions, the Government is also working on establishing a single market for electricity certificates with Sweden. The ambitions are that the key principles of market design and other relevant issues will be in place by 1 October 2009. Then we have launched and now started working with eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy. It is an important measure. The research centres will bring together the best of Norwegian competence for a long-term and focused effort in key areas where Norway has advantages and competitiveness. We have now also prioritised our efforts to achieve our ambitious objectives in CO2 management – one of the most important things we can do in the energy field in the future. In the 2009 government budget, a total of SEK 2.9 billion has been allocated to the work on the projects at Mongstad and Kårstø, research and technology development and international CO2 management. So it's working on the web. We have extensive improvements in terms of the transmission system. The government is engaged in having a central network of sufficient capacity throughout the country. The development and development of the transmission system in a socially rational manner throughout the country is an objective. With regard to strengthening the national and regional power grid, I will also refer to the 2008-2025 network development plan of Statnet, which shows the main strategy in this area. So it's like I'm now working on my own proposition on renewable energy production at sea. I have ambitions to present it to the Storting before the summer. It is an important proposition to establish a framework and to provide a basis for concessions and otherwise regulate the relationship to the development of offshore wind power. A strategy for marine renewable energy will also be presented in this context. I would also like to briefly refer to the work currently being done on the evaluation of the Energy Act. It is a process in which we had a consultation round before Christmas, and in a short time I will submit to the Stortinget proposals based on obligation of connectivity for production at all network levels and connectivity also for consumption at regional and central network level – an important measure to get new renewable energy into the network. The size is also known that you will be presented with a proposition regarding rental of hydropower and public ownership with the first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e356	The Council of State is trying to be offensive here by listing a number of individual issues, when we are discussing the need to get a comprehensive message to the Stortinge to get political clarifications. I wasn't very impressed. One could – versus the boast of Enova – ask how many wind power projects the red-green government has granted concession and that have been implemented and built. The answer is zero. So the Council of State will not answer that question. A problem is, for example: this with wires to the rest of the world. There, the Council of State's own party traps and a committee leader at Stortinget have said that you don't want more cabling to the rest of the world, while the government later feels like they want more wired to the rest of the world. We know that Statkraft wants or at least talks about building a cable for Germany, but this is actually a role Statnett should have. How is the Council of State doing this? Is it okay for power producers to build electricity lines so that they can also control the market more? Or should Statnett do that, which, after all, is a government regulator?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e363	I believe that one of the things we have done in Norway in the energy sector is that we have had an openness and a distinction between production and network operation. When I'm in other countries, either in European countries or like last week in Mexico, I see that there's a great deal of interest in the Norwegian model attached to this. It provides good incentives to compete on the production side, while not experiencing locking, that manufacturers are able to have their own control of parts of the network. My thinking about that question is that we should protect about the division we have within the energy grid in Norway. It is important that we have network operators that provide transport routes for the power, and that we have manufacturers that compete to produce power efficiently to the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e370	Storting President Igland has beaten a few great blows to get the political debates into the main hall. Clearly, he has spoken for deaf ears at his own hands. By way of exception, we see that the prosecuting parties express themselves on these questions, but that is a considerable distance from this hall. My question is why you phase out the Storting in these very central questions. Why did the two predecessors of the State Council promise to present a big energy message to the Stortinget? Was it those who failed, or is it the current Council of State that has failed, who have helped to phase out the Greatness of these for the nation of the greatest questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e377	I want to start the answer by boasting of the previous replicator, who actually went into a substantive matter of energy policy, a matter that I think is relevant in relation to what Energy-Norway is going to look like in the future. With regard to the more process-oriented question from the representative of Kristiansen, whom I have probably answered in the Grand Duchy between five and ten times earlier, I can repeat my answer to it: I believe in general that the policy is implemented in practice through concrete decisions in this Chamber, through propositions and through the further drafting of new legislative texts, by taking decisions relating to budgetary appropriations, and thus designing the specific policy. I myself have been sitting in this room for four years, and know the difference in taking a concrete decision through a bill, through a budget allocation, and the promotion and conclusion of some more general wording relating to a text of notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e384	Ola Borten Moe said it was a great defeat for the Government when the Outer Vicna did not receive support from Enova in December. When the crisis package for the Government was dealt with here in Stortinget now in January/February, there were also comments from the government parties here on the house on the outside Vikna. Since the Council of State made a statement on the specific issues, and will be there, I challenge concrete policies. My question is simple to answer: Can the Council of State tell Stortinget how many wind turbines that have received financial support from Enova or from other support systems that we have had in the past and that have also taken an investment decision, from 2006 to 2008? Then we have also set a few distinct years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e391	Once again I can refer to the question from the representative Solvik-Olsen, I think he answered that question five minutes ago. The issue is that we have had significant challenges with the cost level of wind power projects. We have seen a multiple of the costs of individual projects over the last few years, and that has made Enova feel the need to go extra round with the wind power industry to look at the possibilities of deploying wind power projects at a cost that they think is relative to production. I haven't seen it as my role to review Enova's assessments in that area or go in and control Enova in relation to the assessments they've made regarding what's going on to achieve the Government's objective of 3 TWh on the wind. Instead, I and the Government have gone in and spent more money on Enova, so that in the future they will have the opportunity to go into projects with less profitability than they have so far done. We have also seen that Enova now adds an additional call in relation to wind power during 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e400	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e405	After hearing the comments from the opposition in the debate here now, one only has to conclude that the representative of Terje Aasland is right that this is more rhetoric from the opposition than politics. One tries to blackmail Norwegian energy policy, one tries to create a picture that Norwegian energy policy has been silent for four years. He doesn't. Then one has to move out of this hall and travel around the country and see what is happening, both in the energy sector and in the heating sector. It is claimed that the Government does not have enough tools or does not have the right tools. Then one would have to expect the opposition to come here with some alternative tools, so one could discuss the contents. But it doesn't. A claim that the Government has the wrong energy policy. Yes, then one must be able to come up with an alternative energy policy that one can discuss in this Chamber. But it doesn't. What a do, is to ask for ever new messages and a review of what is the Government's energy policy, to discuss how good or how good he is. I haven't listened to one of the only actors to which the opposition refers, which says that we now need to repeat the Government's energy policy, the Stortinget's energy policy objectives. What the actors are asking for is concrete action that strengthens energy policy. The government is doing a good job with these grips. Some are already done, some are on the stairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e412	First of all, I have to take the opportunity to thank the case rapporteur for a positive comment in his last post right now. I want to start by saying that in no way am I fundamentally opposed to an action plan on a holistic approach to energy policy. But as I said in my main post, I think the time and place are not in place now. If we had drawn up what the opposition is now proposing, a message about the state of energy of the kingdom, it wouldn't, of course, distance itself from what is the Soria Moria declaration. On the contrary, it would support the points contained in the Soria Moria declaration. There is no reason why the government fraction has initially changed its views in the years that have passed. On the contrary, there are a number of relationships that suggest that one might not have to rush into the situation we're in now. At the same time, at the overall level, not least through the budgets, the Storting has discussed exactly what we are dealing with repeatedly, without the opposition having come up with any concrete alternative to what has been the starting point of the government parties. So the ratio of force exchange is taken up, and it's referred to Ola Borten Moe. I'd like to refer to the Government. Is there anything to suggest that the Government has changed its power exchange strategy? Not at all – the relationship to power exchange and the strategy around it is, of course, firm. It is therefore a prerequisite for future investment that there is a good exchange of power between Norway and the other Nordic and European countries. If not, it is a basis for not actually being invested a new crown in new power generation. The starting point for that is the market. That's the main problem in the relationship we're discussing. But to take the state of the kingdom's environment first, to which reference was also made, I didn't say that one should cut out that kind of thinking. I just said the way it was done, maybe it was a little old-fashioned. In fact, we have discussed whether the form of reporting should be improved, availability increased and timeliness improved through the reporting that is taking place, and that perhaps this treatment in this room is not bringing the country forward. To conclude, the main problem, as I said, is that it's the market where the energy production and the electricity system are going – in the last four years there were 35 TWh net exports from this country. It is clear that initially it is also a result of a low price – that is what it is connected to. Then it's harder to make investments. The question is support systems – we agree on green certificates, but how far is the opposition willing to go to get a support system that triggers power that we initially do not need in Norway per year. current date?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e425	The problem with Norwegian energy policy and the government's policy is not that it has remained silent, but that it has moved across the track without any particular direction. What we're seeing now are single representatives from the red-green parties who are totally rejected by other single representatives in this room. That is why there is a need for a comprehensive policy. It is quite right, as the representative of Aasland says, that there are not very many out there who are asking for a copy of the Soria Moria statement as a big message. What we're asking for is to get a policy that's connected, that works, that's where, for example. says that one must have green certificates that include small-scale power plants and that do not exclude them. The vast majority of those who have looked at the matter say that the lack of small power plants in a green certificate system is the reason that one has not reached an agreement with Sweden. That is why we had hoped that an energy policy action plan, or the state of energy of a kingdom, would have meant that the government would have to sit down and quantify supply and demand, expectations for increased production in the industry in the future, expectations about the electricity consumption of households in the future, expectations about electrification of the car fleet in the future, and ensure that the adaptation on the production side was there, that the deployment of a network for Europe was in place, and also in relation to electrification on Norwegian base. That's what's missing. So one has to have a bet on ocean wind turbines that are going to be huge, we're talking about hundreds of TWh – thousands of TWh sometimes, when one is at the most optimistic. In a conversation with Statnett last week, I was told that there is no chance in the sea – literally – that Statnett can build a power grid out there that can transport this power any place. Nevertheless, one in all debates is hyper-optimistic in relation to how much electricity one will get from Norwegian sea-based wind power in 2020. The Technology Council has already accounted for 5 TWh. It is the principle of getting a big message about the energy policy that is important here. The representatives of Aasland and Sande are calling for us to start discussing the details of the cases here. If we had made many concrete proposals, as we have done in other matters, they would have been rejected because one disagreed with exactly the specific proposal that we made. That's why we deliberately fail to come up with something concrete, so the government itself is given the power to present it – but that a person, from the opposition's point of view, takes the discussion internally and looks at what adjustments you need to make. Let me give an example from today's debate: I challenged the Council of State in relation to Statnett and Statkraft about the construction of cables abroad. I think, said Terje Riis-Johansen. But it's the government that should be thinking, because today, Statkraft has the opportunity to build that cable abroad, unless Statnett says they're going to go into the project. But the Council of State here gives a signal that they do not want State power to be able to build this. There are such things that should come in a big message, and not just as one I think-phrase in Stortinget. How in all days shall State Network operate with such a Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e438	Speakers of the government parties have an approach to this debate which simply illustrates the need for us to have a big message on these issues. I would like to say to the rapporteur, who again allows himself to say that the opposition parties are dealing with black paint, that we are not. We're just doing the same thing that his party traps did in government. Two former government councils have promised the Stortinge to present a big message; the major issues, the major challenges facing the nation in this area, will be addressed in the Stortinge. That's what we want. And we ask the question: why has the failure to present these to the nation and to Europe very big questions – the future of the energy nation Norway on? I just note that the answer today is Soria Moria anno 2005. In the other treatments we have had of energy policy issues, any answer has been Enova. The opposition's proposals are being called for here today. We would have gone the round of leave in the committee if it had not been for the opposition's proposals on these issues, which we have repeatedly presented in the Stortinge in almost four years. But what is sad is that today's government in this political area chooses to phase out the Storing. And once again, when the President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy of Jagland has repeatedly asked that the major political debates be more widely held in Stortinget and not in the media, it is just to record that the message of Jagland is not being listened to at all within the government parties. How are we going to achieve our goal of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016? How are we going to electrify the socket, which we have as a decision in the climate agreement? How are we going to avoid our best forces, including the state's own company, Statkraft, using tens of billions only abroad? How are we going to facilitate some of this energy creation in Norway? It's these questions that deserve a different fate than referring to black paint from the opposition. In this case, more than the opposition has failed, and it is in the form of a formidable breach by two former government councils in the ministry. The government is delivering a series of big messages this summer. So they've been sacrileged against the Storting getting in touch with these important political issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e452	A few years ago, current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said: This is the backbone of Norwegian energy policy. We have a large deficit in power, which leads to the import of large quantities of highly polluting coal power. That's why we have to trap the central government, and that's why we have to build gas power plants on Kårstø without requiring sewage because we need this power now, because we're in a deficit situation. Today, the Labour Party's leading spokesman in this debate says that the situation is that Norway is now a normal year's exporter of energy, and that we do not really need new production to meet our own needs, if we ignore the situation in Middle Norway. These are two widely differing approaches to energy policy challenges. Our question is: which of these energy policy entries has today's Stoltenberg government? That is one of the things we would have liked to be clarified in an energy policy action plan. So instead we have to follow in the newspapers and try to interpret the signals as best we can, in order to get a picture of what is the Government's energy policy. As regards the exchange of power with the rest of the world, it is said here that the government's policy is firm. Well, what does it mean then that the prime industrial politician for the government parties, the head of the nutrition committee, Ola Borten Moe, says that, in fact, it is completely wrong that we are going to have a power exchange with the rest of the world? Do not representatives of the government parties understand that this creates confusion, not only in the opposition, but in all the actors in the energy policy area? It is this kind of question that a big message about energy policy could have clarified. Our point is not to paint black. Our point is to try to figure out the ambiguity that now prevails, and get a picture of what is the government's policy in this crucial area. Then it's said that the opposition parties have no alternative. That's wrong. The previous government had a scheme for green certificates, which today's government chose to remove. It would have provided much more resources for renewable energy production, and it would have produced results in areas where there is a standstill today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e465	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2459]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e481	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e490	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8:21 is a proposal from representatives of the Right and the Advance Party to promote a case on an oil and gas message that addresses the Government’s plans for the further development of our oil and gas resources, with an included timetable. The proposers point out that we are talking here about large and important resources, that it has been common to submit messages about petroleum policy at regular intervals, and that they could also think of such a message now. I assume that one of the proposers will make further arguments for their submission. The majority indicate that the department is in the final phase of the management of the 20th concession round. It shall be sent to the Committee by letter dated 3 February at the latest. point out that new land will be allocated to parts of the continental shelf which to a lesser extent have been explored. At the same time, the newly allocated area in more mature areas of the TFO for 2008 and the work on new allocation in mature areas through the TFO for 2009 are not ‘soon to begin’, as stated in the notes – it is underway. It was announced on March 9th. The government is working on a management plan for the Norwegian Sea, the aim of which is a sustainable exploitation of resources in this important maritime area, while, in line with this government, taking its policy into account the ecosystems that exist in the sea and that are vulnerable. The work on the management plan will also include assessments related to the framework for, for example, petroleum extraction and offshore energy production. In addition, the Department is working on several major issues such as: implementation of Skanled, a work on the Goliath field, carbon management and follow-up of the EU's climate and energy package. The majority clearly support the priority of the Council of State when it comes to focusing on these major tasks referred to here, rather than starting work on a new notification on Norwegian petroleum industry. Therefore, the majority do not support the submission, and the Stortinget argues to take the same hold. In conclusion, let me add a few words to the fact that we are once again discussing whether the Government should present new documents repeating the policy that would be well available to the opposition and for all of us through the platform on which this government operates. So we have an opposition that is able to gather a little bit about an alternative to the government's policy, but time and time again wants to repeat the thoughts and goals of the government for the different parts of the energy policy. I found it particularly paradoxical that the Progress Party and the Right, who like to have a bridge against unnecessary bureaucracy, want to turn the Council of State and the Government's work from delivering concrete results in this area and from turning to new, large paperwork. When one comes with two suggestions and at least one interpellation to the Storting today, which hardly contains any new political grips, it may be difficult as a positionist to know whether one should rejoice that the Government has no offensive competitor in the energy field, or whether one should conclude that the Government’s policy has the necessary support in the Storting. When a government is asked to design new messages so far out in an electoral period, one can also interpret it as if the opposition were presuming that the government would continue for a few more periods. It would be a pleasure if that were the case!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e505	In this case, I can agree with some of the opposition parties mentioned in the Inn. S. No 177 for 2008-2009, inter alia The fact that we have had three government councils during this period. Of course, this isn't problem-free, and all the games on Stortinget know that. The opposition also complains of too few cases from this department. This may be partly a result of several state councillors, but now the cases are coming. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Government have chosen to focus on major individual matters instead of a larger petroleum message. It is true that we have had a kerosene message every two years, but it is not quite right that we stand without a general petroleum policy because it does not come this year. It is probably the case that one message applies until a new one has been adopted, and I don't feel that the companies view this as the biggest problem they have. This government is pursuing an active search policy and is committed to maintaining a high level of activity on a Norwegian base. This is why it is important, among other things, to: The matter of Goliath is soon in Stortinget. We are also talking about a management plan for the Norwegian Sea. Although this is the case of the Ministry of the Environment, it is incredibly important also for the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the entire Government and for the co-existence of the future in the sea. This concerns not only the location of the fishing activity but also the petroleum and offshore energy production activities. We also get a case to Stortinget about adjustments in the petroleum law, which includes: the responsibility for the removal of devices is the theme and where adaptations to legislation regarding third-party use of devices are also mentioned. Nor has there been any plank driving to find out about Skanled, and it will also come to Stortinget as soon as possible – and the like's case about renting. 20th Concession Round is around the corner, and it's going to be a lot of activity and value creation in the northern regions. I have no doubt that the petroleum industry will have a major impact on employment and industrial development in the north. On the basis of this proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:21 in 2008-2009 – fortunately I get the opportunity to say a few words from the pulpit of the Stortingen on the Workers’ Party’s view of future petroleum activities in Northland VII and Troms II. In this setting, and through many other opinions, the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing a big deal that the Workers' Party will not flag what we think about this important matter in the future. I ask, what was the point of the content of the management plan, which all of Norway was celebrating, and what was the point of spending several hundred million dollars on seismics and environmental studies if you had decided in advance? The working party follows what we said in the setting of the management plan. Future decisions shall be based on knowledge, not on vision and prejudice. ‘The working party is wise to keep the doors open for further growth and development off the coast of North Norway’, writes the Managing Director of the Land Association of the Oil Industry in VG 10 February 2009. We do not fail North Norway and the petroleum industry, to which the Right wants it. Knowledge has always been good to have. The working party is committed to finding solutions that ensure important ecological resources in the interaction between fisheries and petroleum activities, but only when evaluating the management plan in 2010 do we take the decision. We've got a North Norway policy that's lifting up the county. Petroleum activity is a large part of it all. Here lies the challenges of the future in terms of oil and gas, and here the government has a great focus. Workplaces and industrial development are the keywords. We red-green work well in fact without a new petroleum message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e528	There's nothing wrong with the self-confidence of the government's spokesmen – it's obvious. But it's nice to record that polls show that the population doesn't bite at it in most cases. Here again, we are discussing the principle of getting back an overall forecast. In this area, in fact, it is a principle that past accumulations and governments have been delivering for 34 years. So it is not that a sudden desire now to put in place a system of 'unnecessary bureaucracy', as the centre party is now suddenly calling big shots. So it has been a tradition for the last 34 years that an annual – or at least every two years – has come to the Stortinget, had political debate and decided on what should be the framework and the strategy for Norwegian petroleum policy. That was until we got today's government. A strategic approach I think is important, because then we get this anchored in white. It's verifiable. The government must live up to it and show whether they deliver or not. It gives predictability to the industry, it is thoughtful because one is being debated in the open room, and it is not least anchored in the Stortinget, the highest political body in Norway in terms of giving laws and giving appropriations. But this is just "bureaucratic". It says a little bit about the arrogance of power that comes from a majority government. It must also be embarrassing for other departments, which boast unhesitatingly every time they deliver a big message. When the government delivered the perspective message a few months ago, it was very important to finish Norway's course, and when the Minister of Foreign Affairs delivered his message on Norwegian foreign policy, it was also very important to know which direction to go. But it's just "bureaucratic", we have to believe the energy politicians of the red-green parties. The councils were just on their way to Mexico. My claim is that that trip would not have been possible if the Council of State had been approaching oil issues in the last 30 years, because then one would not have got to the industry that one has received, and the good cooperation that is in place. The government wants to avoid wasting its time on a torrent message. I have to ask myself, is it because they think it takes time to debate it in Stortinget? Or is it because it takes time to put it in the pen? I don't think any of the parts really cost the government college and the department a lot of time, so that can't be the reason. Then there is only one reason left: It takes time to clarify the content internally of the Government. I think that's the main reason we haven't received a big message about either petroleum policy or energy policy in the last three and a half years. Because it would have taken an incredible amount of time, and the government has clearly shown that it is not possible to do it in practice. I got an example of this when I was in Nature and Youth's summer camp last July. The Labour Party representative said that the oil industry in Norway is responsible for the deaths of millions of people in Africa due to climate change; we have to cut off Norwegian oil and gas activities. The week after, I was at the Energy Kingdom Conference in Haugesund, where the Labour Party’s representative – another person, but also another audience – said that the oil and gas business in Norway is very important for preserving the world’s environmental status, and for improving it compared to using coal. There were two completely different messages from the same party. It's no wonder you can't give a big message in Stortinget when you're actually in charge of one policy at a time. This is happening at a time when the energy issue is becoming increasingly important, when we see that the European Union is increasingly turning to Norway to buy more Norwegian gas, and where we see that the energy supply conflict, even in Europe, is becoming more and more central. So energy supply cuts are not just an experience in unstable third countries, but that's actually something that our neighbours in the south-east experience almost every year. When you look at the specific problems that are in the petroleum sector, with cuts in petroleum research – which is to lay the basis for future value creation – it shows that there is no totality. When you look at the debate on search area – where the budgetary remarks from the red-green parties say that we are going to run a rough course and maintain the pace, while in the media debate there are several of the same politicians who go out and say that now we must have a five-year break in new oil business in Norway – there is no credibility in this. When the TFO was released in 2008, there was no justification. When the 20th concession round was postponed by one year, there was no reason. Yes, both started, but the point is that there was an unpredictability that the industry is not served. When one looks at the need for gas infrastructure, it was one of the important reasons why I addressed this in an interpellation on Troll Development and the cessation of that project. So now you see that the debate comes up: what are they going to do when they're going to expand gas fields in Middle Norway, the Onyx project and the Victoria project, where there's no gas infrastructure out? The government said no to one project, but they never came up with an overall approach that would be the option. That is why there is a need for a big message. I take up the proposals on which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e547	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e550	We are actually in exactly the same situation in this case as in the previous case. What the opposition is doing is asking why the government in this area has not delivered a big message, which two former government councils from the same government have guaranteed Stortinget in the past. I think the representative Torny Pedersen gave a fairly good explanation as to why such a message was not presented, albeit not entirely adequate. But we're only allowed to take note that on this question, you don't take the road to Stortinget. We will have plenty of opportunity outside this house to discuss these questions over the next six months. It's just to take note that the industry that accounts for about 25 pst. of all value creation in Norway, which is Norway’s economic locomotive, our largest knowledge industry, does not receive a worthwhile treatment of the future of the industry in this room. That responsibility is borne by today's government itself. And it is at a time when we are at a crossroads in Norwegian energy policy, Norwegian oil and gas policy, where we know that lack of decisions will necessarily have major consequences for the future – consequences for production and also consequences for the country's economy. Questions are asked about why one is in favour of bureaucracy, and refers to the opposition's wanting to have a big message on this. It's a completely irrelevant question for the rest of us. And again to the case rapporteur: in that case, he must address the question to his two party traps that have been the government council in the department in the past and that have promised, with the greatest and most blatant of course, that in this process of enlargement, too, as in the eight to nine previous enlargement periods, Stortinget should – naturally – get such a big message for treatment. I cannot fail to say that this bears the mark of a kind of political arrogance, where in these questions one also chooses to phase out the Storing as an organ. Then the question is asked with reference to the management plan: what is the point of asking questions about the position of individual parties? So it is Norway’s economic locomotive, which employs 150,000–200,000 people, our largest knowledge industry, that expects an answer to these questions. I don't think you can use the management plan as a shield, knowing that there are political differences among the government parties as well. When you ask the opposition why you expect clear answers, at least from the largest positioning party you have to be able to ask the same question to your government co-parties, who have already concluded. And just to answer exactly from the Right: in questions that go on in Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II, we say yes to search activities unless the management plan in its conclusion strongly advises against the initiation of activity. I think that's a point of view that's neat and clear, and that also the largest government party should have manned up to occupy. I believe that the whole outside world expects Norway to have a long-term policy in this area, at least our friends in Europe, who would have preferred to have Norway as a long-term and secure supply of energy to Europe for the next ten years. But here, the government's side outside the main hall gives signals in the cabin and weather that can only be the most suitable to confuse. Here, for example, also comes a government-appointed sample, the Development Committee, and signals what they have to think about the future in this area. It is clear that there is cause for concern when you do not want to have these questions in the forum that should address these issues, namely the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e563	Since 1974, changing governments have found it important to provide a petroleum message for the Storting. This was – and is – in order for the country’s National Assembly to take on the overall discussions, discuss the future challenges of what has been and remains one of Norway’s most important industries. Since 1994, a petroleum notification has been submitted every two years. Today's government has not provided any kerosene message for the Storting. They have also announced that this will not happen, despite good thoughts and good intentions from former oil and energy ministers, Åslaug Haga, to present an energy message that would take a holistic view of both the petroleum and energy sectors and the renewable sector. From the Christian People's Party we thought these were exciting thoughts, but unfortunately they don't. We get a break with a 34-year-long story. If it was ever the Storting should have taken such a discussion, it might have been in 2008-2009. We have enough of the facts, enough of the descriptions of the climate challenges we are facing. That the national parliament of the country will not then take a general discussion about where the road goes in relation to the petroleum industry, yes, I have to say, it is rather alarming. The rapporteur, Sande, lists the various measures and policy areas currently under consideration by the Government, and there are all the measures that will lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions. There was the TFO in 2008, there was a new concession in the TFO now, and there were the final negotiations in the 20th concession round. But the question is then in relation to the climate agreement that the Government has made with three of the opposition parties: When are we going to take the general discussion about how this sector will also deliver something? We've had kerosene messages for 34 years, and I think it would have been a good idea if we continued that tradition, not because it's a tradition, but because the area we're talking about now also has to deliver in terms of the climate challenges we're facing. When we read the Evening Post on Sunday about the measures taken by Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions, it was rather surprising that the sector we are now talking about was not mentioned with a single word in terms of being involved in the climate challenge that we need to engage in if we are to achieve the two-degree goal, which is a common goal for the Government and the opposition. We are in favour of proposal No. 1 in the Committee's position, where we ask the Government to promote an oil and gas notification. The reason why we are not on proposal No. 2, is that we have a somewhat different attitude than that of the proposers at the pace of the future extraction of oil on the Norwegian base. I registered with interest Per Olaf Lundtägen's play yesterday about slowing down the extraction rate on the Norwegian base. To the NRK, Lundtegen stated that more oil had to be saved on the seabed. He also expressed support for the SV’s decision to reject oil and gas activities outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. This is in line with good Christian People's Party policy. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following: Is the Council of State in line with its party colleague in these questions, or should we now also listen to the Soria Moria declaration and that is the answer? It must be – I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression – boring to be a magnificent representative of the government parties since all good thoughts were thought in 2005, and everything else they say we should not care about, because that is not the case, even though thoughts are good and thoughts take the future seriously. – It is good to have a good smile by the representative Tore Nordtun at my end!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e584	Petroleum industry is of great importance to Norway. It is an industry of great value to Norway. It generates large revenues, forms the basis for many jobs and has a very large number of important competences associated with it. It is therefore understandable that, since 1974, changing governments have found it appropriate to present a kerosene message for broad debate in the Storting. Petroleum industry in Norway is also of great importance in a European energy perspective. What is happening in Norwegian oil and gas policy is of great importance to climate policy and the results achieved there. Therefore, it is not that one has a reduced need to have a comprehensive review of oil and gas policy. That need has, on the contrary, increased. It is in this situation that the current Council of State, unlike its predecessors, has said no to use this instrument, and instead said that one would shape Norwegian oil and gas policy by taking a decision on the case-by-case basis. I believe that it would have been of great value to anchor a superstructure and a whole of oil and gas policy through a broad discussion in Stortinget. I believe a main reason why the government has opted out of making such a complete message is that internal disagreement would make a process of making such a message, very demanding, not to say impossible. In terms of oil and gas policy, it is the extremes of Norwegian policy that are now cooperating in government. On the one hand, there is an SV, which was the only party that before the previous roll-up election, opted for one to be contrary to all oil and gas activity in the northern regions. One has later moderated and entered to open significant areas, but this was at least the starting point for the lot. Today, we feel that there are very different signals coming from central representatives of the government parties – yes, not only that, but also from the government. Last weekend the Environment Minister said that he had a strong need and a strong desire to control StatoilHydro much stronger and more focused than today. It's interesting when a government council expresses such a view, to know if it's an expression of the government's policy. It has been mentioned that Per Olaf Lundtägen yesterday made himself a spokesman for a new direction and a new content of oil policy in relation to what the Government stands for. It would also be interesting in an oil message to see the platform that the government has, instead of having to listen to different signals, as one here is facing. We also have different signals in terms of the strategy compared to opening up the Lofoten and the Vesterål. Here the Workers' Party will wait to make a decision, while the Centre Party and SV have said no. I meet the Council of State's assessments on this oil policy issue. So we know little about what the government parties mean in key areas of oil and gas policy. What's even worse is that it seems to be unclear what the government thinks. The government has declined to produce an oil message. I find that regrettable, and the Left will vote in favour of the proposal before us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e601	First of all, to the question raised by the representative Kvassheim at the end of his speech on the Lofoten and Vesterålen. I repeat here, on the President-in-Office of the Council, what I have said in other contexts, that I have stood by the position that applies to this period, namely not to open up the area as a result of the large resources that are still in the area, and I believe that we should have very good reasons to change the position that is now at the root of the policy. Norwegian oil and gas policy is shaped by concrete decisions. Goliath, Skanled, TFO, 20th concession round, Norwegian Sea Management Plan, petroleum legislation and CCS CO2 management work are concrete examples of issues such as shaping the long-term petroleum policy in Norway. Let me start with Goliath. The operator delivered the Expansion and Operation Plan – a PUD – to Goliath on 18 February. The plan is currently being treated in the ministry, and it is a goal for me to present it to the Stortinget during the spring session. It's important to think that Goliath, on the one hand, is a relatively small field compared to much of the other that is developed. It's e.g. one twelfth of the reserves in the Worm Lange. At the same time, we are in a situation where oil production in Norway is falling, and Goliath is an important contribution to maintaining production in Norway in the future. As an industrial project, Goliath is nevertheless large. There are not so many other industrial projects in Norway that have a framework of nearly 30 billion kroner, so there is no doubt that the focus on that project will be large in the future. The 20th concession round is about giving companies access to new exploration space, and it is important to ensure the long-term activity on a Norwegian base. In the 20th round, we have focused on areas that have not previously been allocated, where it is possible to detect larger findings that can defend independent expansions. Petroleum activities can, through such a round — and in this concrete round — play a significant role both in terms of employment and industrial development and value creation in the future. The 20th round is now in the final phase, and I expect to allocate new attractive search space this spring. With regard to TFO, which has also been mentioned in today's debate, I have just completed an allocation of land in mature areas, i.e. TFO 2008. A new round of allocations for mature areas in 2009 has been announced. The purpose of the TFO scheme is, as the Stortinget is known, to ensure rapid and effective exploration in the matured areas and in the vicinity of the existing infrastructure. Then we have worked on the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, and as a resource owner, it is important for me to point out that we are using oil companies to create values and resources for the joy of the community in the same way that we are using the environmental movements and other organisations to actively get a fact-based policy design when we are working on those kinds of questions. This is very specific work on the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. We've been on since January 2007. There shall be a comprehensive and good plan which takes into account what goes on in petroleum, but which also takes up fishing activity in relation to ship traffic, possible offshore energy production, etc. The size of the store will also bring this matter to the fore. It is the Ministry of the Environment that is responsible, but it is also an important matter for me and my department. Then we've been working on petroleum legislation and changes to it. I believe that there is a weakness in existing legislation due to the fact that it does not provide sufficient scope for using existing infrastructure on the base to facilitate petroleum installations in CO2 projects. I invite the Stortinget to do something about it during the spring, and also make other changes to the use of devices by third parties and also to the seismic collection and tracking of it. It's also a matter of importance. Now I see on the lamp here that it is limited how much opportunity I have to go into Skanled and into CO2 management at Mongstad. Both projects are major and important issues which, for me, indicate the direction of exposure to petroleum policy, and they also have significant environmental impacts and are important environmental projects in the future, in particular the Mongstad projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e638	The point of the proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party is that a comprehensive approach is needed to anchor policies and to see the various individual issues in a context. The councils themselves were inside the Goliath project, which is an exciting project, and we hope we will get a decision as soon as possible. But in this regard, I wonder what kind of approach the government has had in terms of infrastructure construction on Goliath. More specifically, has the Government had an approach where you only see the Goliath project isolated, when you think about what kind of piping you might need, what kind of landing thoughts you have? Or have you had a more comprehensive area policy, where you have a vision of who is going to do exploration – and hopefully do find out – and build an infrastructure that will enable you to connect other fields as well, and build an infrastructure that will have a lifetime and a horizon of 20–30–40 years? Because it's not possible from my perspective, unless you also have an overall idea of where you want to go, and then you need a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e643	I believe that it is possible to have an opinion on the nature of the position of Goliath expansion in relation to the petroleum activities in the north in the future, regardless of a big message. That's exactly what the Big One will be invited to through the proposal on Goliath. So I think that exactly that example is a very good example that I am right in my thinking and working on how things are treated with advantage. It's not that long since we got the plan from Eni to the department, so we still have a lot of work to do on it both in the department and in the government, it's too early concrete now to go in and conclude about the device on that project. But the issues raised by Solvik-Olsen's representative are quite relevant and of the things I now have on my table, and where we look at how the development of infrastructure and the expansion of petroleum activities in the northern regions will take place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e650	Why did the two predecessors of Riis-Johansen in the State Council chair, Odd Roger Enoksen and Åslaug Haga, promised the Stortinget a very comprehensive petroleum report? And why does today's Council of State think that his predecessors should not have promised the Storting such a message?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e655	I can hardly answer for anyone but myself for that kind of question. What others have thought and done, they themselves have to answer. As for my position here, I must respectfully say that I have answered that question relatively many times. I have already blackened the representative of Kristiansen once in Stortinget today. I was also interested in it in my previous answer. That's a very good example of why I think the way I want to work is the right one. When, for example: on the question of Goliath, which is one of the major petroleum policy issues for the Storting, the Stortinget will bring that matter under consideration. The size gets the opportunity to think something about this. The size is given the opportunity to make its formulations and decisions in relation to the development of the oil policy related to the Goliath development through the proposition and its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e662	When I put the posts of the Council of State next to the representative of the depositor Per Olaf Lundtägen's statement yesterday about slowing down the extraction rate on the Norwegian base, I do not see any agreement. Governments spent time talking about Goliath, a small field, but a large industrial project. He spent time on the 20th concession round, which is in the final phase. He spent time at TFO 2008 and a new announcement in 2009 and the Norwegian Sea Management Plan. When the red lamp started to light up, he went over to change the petroleum legislation, Mongstad and CO2 and Skanled. It tells us a little bit about the central government's emphasis on the challenges we're facing. Is it the case that the Council of State agrees with the Lundtägen Senterpartiet, who wants to slow down the rate of extraction on Norwegian soil and rather save what is at the bottom, which has been a policy that many Norwegian politicians have faced?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e672	I totally disagree with the fact that the environmental side is a little focused on my policy. There have never been proposals similar to the one that I recently submitted to the Stortinget a few weeks ago, related to environmental work at Mongstad. The efforts we are now making to put in place a technology related to the capture and storage of CO2 are unique in the Norwegian context. Such proposals have never been made before. It's unique in the world context. As mentioned, I was late last week in Mexico and discussed these questions. Norway is at the forefront of environmental work in terms of capture and storage. We take an international responsibility by now setting out of 5 billion dollars to work on environmental issues, capture and storage, while inviting other countries to join our projects. I don't understand how the representative Holten Hemdal believes that my and the government's emphasis on environment in the oil and gas sector is not on solving environmental challenges in this sector. I am absolutely convinced that we need to crack new codes in terms of capture and storage, be ready to capture CO2 and get it down to the bottom of the sea instead of into the atmosphere. It's the most important thing in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e685	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e690	It is in many ways a rather wonderful debate related to this Document No. The 8th proposal. I've been sitting in the hall listening to all the main posts. When you hear the opposition, you could think that there have been tremendous changes in Norwegian petroleum policy lately. In my opinion, it does not. We had a petroleum message in Stortinget a few years ago. It is fixed in many ways and is very well confirmed in the Soria Moria Declaration. The government pursues the policy that lies there. Then you talk about there's changes here. What has happened in the North Sea? What has happened in the Norwegian Sea? What's happened in the Barents Sea? Are the big changes happening there? The concession rounds have been conducted as foreseen. Allocations have been made. The TFO arrangements have gone as intended. The allocations have been made. So to another very important thing: tax policy, petroleum tax policy, which is one of the most important things for this industry. What has happened to changes here? That policy is firm, with a broad and solid majority in the Grand Duchy on all points. Then we have rounding turns to discuss these matters also outside – both the national budget, the state budget and the revised budget. At all events, the opposition has not provided any conversions of Norwegian petroleum and gas policies in relation to the line on which the Government has operated. We even had the management plan for the Barents Sea, which we are certainly not finished yet in a certain area. There is broad agreement on the large structure of the new seas in terms of extraction rates. And then you almost get the impression that the opposition thinks that there is a stop to the petroleum and gas business, that they have completely changed it, and that they have not been able to participate in it. This room has been open to all debates in connection with various budgetary procedures and various energy and petroleum issues that have been put forward here. I just notice that the opposition has not had alternatives to the government's policy at all. They have largely joined this policy – because it has been a good policy. So you say you have to discuss the purchase of gas with Europe. Europe gets the gas they want when we have gas to sell, at all times. They're going to have to do that in the future, too. We are building the infrastructure with the pipes that are needed to supply Europe. I'm just waiting for the opposition to propose to start a new hole X does not decide to find oil or gas! [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e701	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e704	The entry for the representative Nordtun borders on the ridiculous one. There's no one from the opposition that later on like it's so easy to find oil just to drill. That's exactly why we're calling for a comprehensive policy that's predictable, unlike what the Government is delivering. The representative Nordtun gives the impression that the opposition parties have supported the Government in everything it does. Then I ask the representative Nordtun to look through the vote, for example. for the merger between Statoil and Hydro. The opposition had a dozen proposals that they were behind, which would be a little alternative and would ensure diversity and resource use much better than what the Government has made clear. Is that the same thing as being unanimous? In that case, the representative Nordtun is very selective about the reality in which he wants to live. All those travelling through petroleum conferences throughout Norway are repeatedly told of an arrogance from the industry over the mess it experiences from the Government. Much of this happens in the petroleum policy, the status quo – fortunately – remains because the power of action of the Government makes them unable to make changes that are in line with what some people want. But when you look at the TFO scheme in 2008, it was postponed – it's not as normal. 20th concession round was postponed – so it is not normal. Petroleum research was cut, as opposed to the targets set in the 2004–05 State budget, even in 2006. So it's against normal. The government's budgetary comment on where you want to, protests the SV and the Center Party against in plenary, and rises to the Lofoten and the West Pole to mark disagreement. It's not the same as predictability. I think the Council of State was very clear as to what the problem is, when he said in the change of lines here to the representative Kristiansen that he can't answer what his predecessors have been thinking. That is precisely the problem: we have had three different oil and energy ministers in three years, and he cannot answer what the previous ones have been thinking. That's why one should have had a policy that was adopted in Stortinget and that obliged the Government to follow it up more than one year at a time. That's exactly what we experienced in the previous debate, about an energy message where the Council of State is thinking about the kind of role State power should have in terms of grid wiring to the rest of the world, which actually violates the policy established today. That's why it should be a policy that was adopted in Stortinget, and not just that one should think. Finally, regarding Goliath: The council believes he was right that you do not need a big message, because he had hardly seen the matter of Goliath, and thus he cannot say what kind of infrastructure you should have. But that's where the strategic idea should be anchored in the Storting, that one said that it's the area calculation that's going to apply – or else you said that one should think about one project here, as the Government actually says they do per. Today adds up, because they don't know the alternatives. I'm glad the Goliath case is coming, and I expect that there's a major strategic part of the message about how a person wants to extract the oil resources across the Barents Sea, so that we can also make a decision on a strategic approach to the area planning at the same time. The state council has promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e716	The President must ask the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, to speak respectfully about his colleagues. Talking about others' posts as bordering on the ridiculous is out of acceptable language usage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e719	The representative of Tore Nordtun claimed that representatives of the opposition parties did not make an alternative point of view when there were current debates in this Chamber. That's wrong. Among other things, as Solvik-Olsen referred to, there was an alternative view in relation to the StatoilHydro merger, among others. with the aim of facilitating a multiplicity of Norwegian players, and not the unilateral effort on StatoilHydro that one believes the government parties are putting up. The left has also promoted alternative views relating to land use and has also made proposals in this Chamber in this context. However, if Nordtun is concerned that there are no alternative votes, that there are no alternative proposals, then it is also unfounded in the sense that this comes largely from the own people of the government parties. Only in the last few days have there been alternative proposals, alternative views from at least three central representatives of the government parties in areas that are important for Norwegian oil and gas policy. We experienced that Erik Solheim wanted a stronger governance with Statoil. There is, of course, an important point in oil and gas policy. We felt that the head of the business committee, Ola Borten Moe, did not want cable connections with the rest of the world. It is also an important part of energy policy and the interface between oil policy and electrification. And it was felt that Lundtigen wants a different rate of oil extraction than the government has said so far that it stands for it. This ambiguity, which has only been exemplified in this way in recent days, shows that there is a great need to have a comprehensive and consistent presentation of the government's policy in this area and to know what plans you have to further develop this central industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e726	Some representatives in this room choose to use completely unparliamentary words and ridicule the posts of others – it is done in other contexts as well in previous debates – and say one thing and the other and refer to meetings outside the house, and that's okay, there are meetings that I myself have attended. But when they make it like you from the petroleum sector think it's an eternal root from the Government, it's something I take a great distance from. What has really been the question all along applies, among other things. the undersigned and Ketil Solvik-Olsen have attended, namely what is happening in the Barents Sea and the administrative areas, especially outside the Western/Lofoten Sea. There have been some questions about this, and it is quite reasonable that the industry is aggressive about new virgin areas. But we must have a precautionary principle in these areas too, so that the environmental perspective is firmly in place as we move on. I would like to remind you that when we had a Bondevik II government, it set up exactly the same situation in the Lofoten area as the sitting government: that we had to do new investigations. Then I went forward one thing that no one has commented on, but which is very important, and for which we get to the degrees of praise from the industry. It is the long-term and firm framework conditions of fiscal policy for dealing with the petroleum sector in terms of taxes, levies and predictability. International companies and others praise Norway for its firm commitment to this policy, and there is a solid majority in this Chamber for the policy we are pursuing. – You have to make a positive statement, because I think there are a number of positive things to look at here. But it is also true, as both Kvassheim and others have said, that in some contexts there have been alternative proposals. I'm not going to let go of it, but the big, principal lines have been very tight. So I have to say a little bit about the Goliath thing. Now, fortunately, we will have it for Stortinget soon, and then we will have a new debate. This is a very important oil field in the Barents Sea. We also had this case in connection with the management plan for the northern regions, where we looked at the border section, saw what it was like, and how it should be rounded up in relation to it. But we didn't know at the time if the wires were going to land or not. We should look at that until we saw in the broad perspective the Goliath Plateau itself and how one should arrive at it. It also needs to be a little up to the builder, according to the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e737	Petroleum industry is an important industry for our country. Petroleum industry is important in the context of the climate challenges we face. The representative Tore Nordtun says it's a wonderful debate. It sounds as if there has been a colossal change in Norwegian petroleum policy. No, it doesn't. It's stuck, the expression Tore Nordtun uses. But it must be allowed to ask: Should it be firm, with the challenges we face in terms of climate? Is it not true that the national assembly of the country should have a general discussion about whether it should remain firm? The representative No Marte Thorkildsen's statements last week that the Workers' Party does not understand the climate noise and has not taken on board how serious it is, are probably not statements I fully support, but these are the discussions we should have taken. It is very important that this sector has long-term and predictable framework conditions, and it is in the major discussions that we need to demonstrate the predictability and framework conditions of this sector. On 14 June 1971 – that was before I was born – the Stortinget in this room took ten basic decisions on how to deal with areas north of the 62nd parallel. That was when they said we would set up a state oil company. That was when we talked about the importance our oil wealth would have for foreign policy, etc. etc. A number of principle decisions have been taken that have been much influenced since then. In between, we have to take time for an overall discussion. With the new knowledge we have about the challenges of our climate, the Christian People's Party believes that the time is now ripe to take a new overall discussion in view of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e748	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e751	I'm going to try to hide my honesty a little bit more in this post, but I'm reacting a little bit when the representative Nordtun later like there's no root in the government's oil policy, compared to the Bondevik government. The Bondevik government should have the credit for being able to stand up for a policy and communicate the common outwards, so that one knew what the government meant, even though it apparently pained some of the parties to be united behind it. That's what's the difference between that government and the Stoltenberg government. It's impossible to know what the Stoltenberg government really wants. There are so many votes in the debate that it is impossible to distinguish what is the actual direction – for example. when the government partner of Tore Nordtun ascends to the West to protest against the policy adopted by a majority vote on the Stortinget, or when the Minister for the Environment even goes out and supports the Church's five-year playoff in new oil activities in Norway. Or does the representative Nordtun actually say here that these parties are so small that we don't have to listen to them in the debate, that's what the Labour Party always says, which is the current policy? If that's the case, it's nice, but then you have to communicate it clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e758	I think the debate illustrates what is the opposition's challenge. One has a common desire to have these issues debated again, but it's all a thing to agree on. One has completely different angles of incidence. When one comes down to reality in matters, the representative Solvik-Olsen and the representative Holten Hemdal want quite different developments in this field. That's why there's only one thing to be able to agree on, ever to ask for new debates, where one can show these differences. It's fair enough. What we're busy about is creating results on these areas. Then you'll see, paradoxically, the different statements from individual members of the red-green parts. The red-green parts differ very little from what I'm just referring to, that's the opposition, where one has even bigger speck, actually, in what's the starting point. A need not show a publisher, one could refer to the political programs. Per Olaf Lundtigen has come up with an announcement that is entirely in line with what is the Center Party's current program. It's not more dramatic. Both the position and the opposition know that one government cannot control one application one day and another application the other. That's why a government statement makes, so a regular report to the Stortinget through budget and other issues about what is government policy. That policy is firm, and that is the reality we have to discuss in this Chamber. Then we'll get back to in future periods of in-depth messages in the different fields. Now there are the issues that the Government is working on, which are important to get into port.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e767	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e785	After almost 40 years of continuous growth in production and investment, while at the same time a remarkable history of technology development and innovation, total petroleum production on Norwegian base has reached its highest level, with a daily production of between 4 and 4.5 million barrels of oil equivalent per year. day(s) Output is expected to remain at this level over the next seven years, assuming a relatively normal oil price. However, after 2015 it is expected that total oil and gas production will start to decline. Oil production has already begun to slow down, while gas production is increasing, as we know. However, increased gas production is not expected to counteract the expected fall in oil production in the years following 2015. As we know, and this illustrates the seriousness of the situation, Norwegian oil production has been reduced by a third from the millennium, and Norwegian oil production will be halved by 2014-2015, with the consequences this will have for industry, for technology development and for the Norwegian economy as such. What can governments and industry do to maximise the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base, and what can the parties responsible do to prevent a significant fall in activity after 2015? We know all developments with a different type of finding rate – more but much less finding – and it is far from enough filling at the bottom in relation to the production currently being carried out, among others. last year. This is a situation that requires a lot of attention and urgent action is needed. Today’s decisions, or if decisions are not taken, will have a decisive impact on activities and revenues after 2020. Several of the largest fields have already produced more than 60 pst. of its reserves. Giants, or elephants, such as Gulfaks and Statfjord, have produced about 90 pst. of its resources, and Oseberg is about 80 pst. It's actually approaching a closing phase. Of course, it has been and is still a lot to enjoy when summarizing 40 years with the petroleum industry in Norway. NOK 6000 billion has entered the treasury as measured in today's value. The industry accounts directly and indirectly for more than 150 000 jobs and one third of its revenues come from the petroleum industry. We see that it is the petroleum industry that is the locomotive on Oslo Stock Exchange, and 45-50 pst. the export income comes from the Norwegian base. As you know, the state also takes care of 90 pst. the income of the industry. In addition to contributing to strong economic growth, we can also enjoy being the world's most environmentally friendly oil and gas producer, and the need for new technologies and innovation has also enriched us with world-class technologies and research environments. Norway is the world’s fifth largest exporter of oil and is third in gas exports. It is estimated that by the next year, 2010, Norway will cover around 40 pst. of Europe's gas needs. This will indirectly be among the largest environmental contributions Norway can make, namely to keep this figure up, and preferably to be able to increase gas exports to Europe. If we increase exports by 50 pst, it will be about 40 billion m3 per. years, and it could replace large parts of the use of coal power on the continent. Norway is the world leader in the development of new petroleum technologies and Norwegian cap operators have been at the forefront of innovation and the application of new technologies. Norway, for example, has an extraction rate on Norwegian soil that is close worldwide in both oil production and gas production. But what about tomorrow? Authorities have their share of the responsibility to look beyond the next year’s management plan. For example, it is necessary to establish a framework for an aid scheme with a view to increasing extraction from the mature fields of production today. We need to put in place a mechanism that focuses on projects that have a significant potential for increased extraction but that would not have been implemented with current framework conditions, or projects that have a significant risk. We need to open up support for key technological demonstration projects in order to increase field extraction rather than support several smaller projects. We have to do a more frequent concession rounding and allocate larger areas to speed up testing of new search models. While these search models are at high risk, they also provide opportunities to make significant findings. Based on the successful results of the allocation rounds, i.e. the so-called TFO rounds, near existing infrastructure, it is also recommended to extend the TFO model to all areas open to petroleum activity. We also need to create a contingency plan that can be used if searching for small findings in mature areas does not go fast enough in relation to the remaining life on existing platforms. The plan must include adapted framework conditions. And we must decide to open new areas of petroleum activity as quickly as possible. In order to maintain production and investment levels in the longer term, major findings need to be made. From the Right, we naturally point enough in the areas of Northland VI and VII, Troms II and the Barents Sea north, as well as in the controversial region against Russia, which is considered promising in view of large deposits of oil and gas. Norwegian socket has never seen such rapid growth in activity levels as in the last two to three years, but at the same time we now see a completely different picture of the situation in the future, if not gloomy, it will be marked by the fact that the challenge to the industry is completely different from the growth phase we have been in. With lower production and reduced findings, developing the Norwegian oil and gas technology environment at a high level is simply very challenging. This is our leading knowledge center. This is the nation’s largest source of income and accounts for a significant degree of employment in the nation of Norway. Therefore, it is necessary to present long-term ambitions that can provide answers to the role of this important industry for the nation of Norway. To date, Norwegian oil and gas policies have been characterised by relatively significant consensus. I cannot fail to say that it has also contributed to the fact that over the years we have had the necessary debates in Stortingen on these issues, and it is a line on which I believe any government will stand, to have these debates on the future also in Stortingen. On the right-hand side, we need to increase our commitment to petroleum research. We need to stimulate further investment in mature fields. We need to have a more active allocation policy, and we also need to focus on getting greater diversity on the pedestal. In addition, we need to make a decision to open new fields. No one disagrees — in Norway and in the rest of the world — with the need to focus on the development of alternative forms of energy. And of course, the long-term goal must be to make energy production carbon neutral. But as we know, this will take a long, long time, and Norwegian participation in this development by being a solid, safe supply of oil and gas is actually positive in energy and climate change. But Norway has a responsibility for delivering energy to Europe. We need to address new challenges. I mentioned the challenge and the problem around the Barents Sea north in relation to Russia. I should also like to see the Government take a stand and have a dialogue on the development of the Jan Mayen back, and also contribute to a long-term development and investment on the base, which we have had in recent years. If this goes wrong, that means we're going towards a stagnant period. This would be fatal for the knowledge clusters that we have, and especially in a situation where we know that decisions to be taken as early as next year will have effects in many, many decades to come. Therefore, I hope the Council of State can help to provide some clear answers to the challenges facing this important industry in the coming decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e816	The activity level of the Norwegian base measured in investments is at an historically high level. Although the most recent statistical central agency investment facility involves a downward adjustment of the investment estimate for 2009, the level has never been higher than it is at present. And we see the effect of that for Norwegian regions, Norwegian cities and Norwegian cities. I think Snow White and Melkøya are a good example in this way, where it was found that the expansion had ring-effects for all municipalities in Norway, except one. And it says a little bit about the development we've had in the oil and gas business in Norway over the last decade, and what we've been building out of the related industry in relation to that industry. Then we have a situation where oil production falls. This is mainly due to the fact that the extraction of oil from Norwegian base is in a more mature phase. In Norway, we have followed a step-by-step development of Norwegian pedestal where prospective oil resources were among the first resources to be developed. Therefore, the largest oil resources on the Norwegian base have already been identified, expanded and partially produced. We are therefore not getting away from the fact that Norwegian oil production is falling. It is also a fact that production falls faster than expected. The developments we are now seeing have been expected, but have been more than expected in terms of reduced production. At the same time, we see an increase in gas production, and there is also reason to remember that we have probably now produced – I guess almost just – a third party of the expected total resource base. This means that we can still expect most of them to remain when we see the petroleum resources together. This means that oil production will also generate significant values over the next decades. Although 20 years, when oil production is expected to be around half the current level, the sales volume of these oil products will be over 100 billion kroner, if we base today's oil price. So we're still talking about significant values for Norwegian society. Then we have a situation today with a financial crisis. We have a situation of great uncertainty related to future economic developments. We have a situation with a relatively low oil price compared to what we've seen in the last few years. And in sum, it contributes to a strengthened concern about the level of activity on Norwegian pedestal. In the short term, I think that the level of activity is largely governed by decisions taken, with some shades around it. Therefore, there is reasonable reason to believe that the short-term level of investment on the base will be somewhat fixed for ongoing projects and the other projects where contracts have been concluded. In the longer term, absolute uncertainty is increasing. Petroleum activity on Norwegian soil is characterised by large, complex projects, long-term projects and significant investments. A central task of the Government is therefore to ensure the long-term and predictable surrounding the framework conditions for the industry. I believe that this is to the most extent the case on a Norwegian base. I have experienced myself in meetings I have had with the management of large international oil companies, that precisely that part of Norwegian oil management is highlighted as being the great advantage, that we have a predictable regime of oil policy in Norway, that the authorities are connected and available – so they do not feel that Norwegian authorities live in a bubble regardless of what happens around – and that we ourselves have a belief that the investments that are made can also have an expected depreciation period, because one does not expect things to be turned upside down in a short time. For me, it is important that we appear in this way, not least in an international industry, and I am relatively confident that there is a situation of oil policy in Norway now. As far as the journey is concerned, the Government plans to submit to the Stortinget a management plan for the Norwegian Sea during the spring. It's about one of the things that the representative Kristiansen deals with in his interpellation: the framework for value creation for this important part of the Norwegian continental shelf. The management plan shall facilitate value creation, a value creation that shall be based on the sustainable use of resources and goods in the Norwegian Sea and where we shall continue to work to strike a balance between extracting oil and gas resources and the interests related in particular to fisheries and the environment. So on the issue of the long-term oil policy, I believe that the work done on the Barents Sea Management Plan earlier in this period, and the work we are now in the middle of the Norwegian Sea Management Plan, are important elements of it. In addition to emphasising exploration as a basis for future base activity, I am concerned that we will be able to get new field development and activity in fields that are already in production. In this way, as we have also been a bit inside the storeroom before today, I have recently received a plan for the development and operation of, among others. Goliath. Goliath is the first oil field in the Barents Sea to be developed and will lead to ringing effects in the north in the form of increased activity and more workplaces. I am now about to take this matter into my inquiry. The matter is now on my table, and the Government will ensure that these development plans are handled quickly and efficiently. If we go a little further, I think there is reason to frame that we want to see an oil price higher than what we see today. There is also reasonable reason to believe that the level of costs, which has increased sharply in recent years, will be reversed somewhat. This means that projects that are being pushed into today will provide good reason for believing to be re-established later under an investment regime, or at least under conditions where costs and revenues are different from today. It will provide the basis for us to also do the findings and expand into the future. With regard to the challenges that the industry is facing now, I believe that one of the most important things that the Government has done is to contribute to the stability of the economic situation, to the order of the financial markets, and to their functioning even if the economic situation around us is as demanding as it is. We have received many feedback on this, not least from the supplier industry, which is an important part of the total oil industry in Norway. This means that there is a range of areas that affect how oil policy will work in the future. Then I would like to add that I perceive it so that the most important criterion for success in the oil and gas business is competence and competence in the industry. The progress we have made in technology, within being able to take a new step forward, has been absolutely crucial in order to also have activity in the oil and gas sectors. We'll take the Worm Lange and what happened there, as a matter of course, because it's in place. If one starts to go into the details of what that project meant when it was developed, I think we can let someone tear each other apart in terms of the technological barriers that were broken there. Then again, I am a little back to the Gulf of Mexico and my visit there last week, where I see how important it is to bring the Norwegian oil industry out to new areas, with just the codes we have broken at home in Norway, which, again, I believe, contributes to our gaining competence back to Norway that enables us to move into new technological difficulties and to solve the challenges that lie there. So what goes on technology and competence, I think is one of the answers to developing the industry further. So at the same time, I believe that by making strict environmental requirements, the industry is doing a service in terms of being in the industry in the future. By being at the top of the world here, Norway is also helping us to be in the front line. We're helping to solve problems in the future that we couldn't have solved otherwise, because we're dealing with the environmental situation while we're producing oil. CCS, which could have been a contribution worth making by itself, is one example of where we get technology in place that makes Norwegian industry and Norwegian oil industry competitive, and is able to meet the challenges ahead that will be required of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e847	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's a little hard to figure out what's really the Government's ambitions in this area in the future. I do not doubt that the Council of State will, but his reply is marked by the fact that there is probably a significant stretch in the government field in terms of both road choices and ambitions in this area. The Council of State itself felt that production was falling faster than previously anticipated. It illustrates the roadblock we're in. When production today is much larger than the rate of finding is at the bottom, this is a challenge that we have to address, most seriously. In fact, this is about helping to maintain the largest knowledge cluster we have in Norway — the largest base for income and development of this industry, and which, through its knowledge, will be able to build bridges between fossil and renewable societies. This is also about advising new policies in areas, which, of course, can be considered to be politically controversial. But one must not then make the mistake that one does not dare – or dare – to take a stand on these questions in the future, whether we are talking about the development of a field centre in the Norwegian Sea, activity in the Barents Sea, or above all, which the Council of State did not come up with, whether the relationship that I and the Right believe is the most important of all, namely to be able to offer the oil industry interesting areas to explore for the future. This is, in fact, what the oil industry wants most of all, to have a clear policy in relation to where you can have activity going — long-term and stable — on a Norwegian pedestal. The world is full of interesting areas to engage in in terms of oil and gas development. It is a competitive industry, and the Council of State referred to its recent Mexico visit. I think it's also about success on the road in this area, we still have to be in a situation where we're solid and good at home. It is also about the extent to which, in parallel with the debate, preparedness is taken into account in security, the environment, etc. in the sensitive zones, which lie ahead of us as a political arena, and not least in the area where Norwegian oil and gas industries want to address themselves. I hope the government takes these questions into consideration, even if you don't want to share this with the Storting. Both the situation and the industry require decisions to be taken very seriously, because this is crucial for the future of the nation and the economy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e866	I broadly agree with the assessments made by the representative of Kristiansen in his statement here. This applies, inter alia, to: The wording that was used, that if we are to succeed, we must be good at home. I think that's absolutely right. And I believe that the reason we've got what we have in the petroleum business is that we've been on the technology side all the time at the top of the world for so many years. This has enabled us to go down to 1,200 meters deep – I guess – on the Worm Lange. We have managed to break barriers because the Norwegian supplier industry, in cooperation with the companies, has always managed to move limits on what is technologically possible. Snow White Development has shown – even in a somewhat demanding way – that operating under new climatic conditions poses challenges that in some cases you will learn and be challenged while you are doing it. But in sum, there is no doubt that the fact that a long time has gone by has meant that we have achieved more than what we would otherwise have done. What I do not agree with the representative of Kristiansen is that making a decision, deciding, is the same as in the Lofoten/Westålen. I note that this is a view that has also been expressed from the oil industry at various meetings and seminars, which both the representative of Kristiansen and I have attended. It is not that there is one area in Norway that defines whether you have made a decision or not related to oil and gas policy. We now have relatively significant areas of exploration activity, and for concrete drilling, and the fact that, as has been done in this period, there are many relationships related to the Lofoten/Westålen that mean that it has not been relevant to enter that area except for knowledge acquisition, does not mean that no decision has been taken, and that does not mean that there is no perception of future oil and gas activities. I'll almost say the opposite. If having an opinion from political authorities and from government teams was just saying yes to everything, it would be remarkable. So I believe that what we have done in these years of going into and making a management plan for the Barents Sea, which clearly defines the development areas in the future, and the fact that we are now working on the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, just shows that we are taking a position on how the oil and gas activities in Norway will proceed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e875	I think this interpellation from Ivar Kristiansen, on the high level of activity on Norwegian continental shelf, is a timely input into the debate. And I think it's important to be aware of the situation per person. Today is in, and what situation you can get in the future, if not so and so, etc. Because it's completely crystal clear, and the council confirmed it, that on the oil side we have a falling curve of what's found – and on the gas side, but there we have a lot left, so here the natural resources will help us for a while. But if we look ahead overall, if we go 20 years ahead in our perspective, these volumes -- even if what's been found, will be at half the level of the day, let's just think about it -- will still be pretty formidable. 100 billion can be charged. But it is not said that we can borrow back. I also believe it is important in the future to raise a stronger debate on the extent to which the whole nation of Norway can become an energy producer for Europe and others around us. It's in the perspective we need to see all this, because I think we have unique opportunities to be a magazine for new renewable energy – both on land and for water. Therefore, I also think it is gratifying that the Government is now taking on board the arrondance of Norwegian pedestal, among other things. on the sea windmill side – how to facilitate, how to distribute concessions, etc. – so that we have predictability and long-termity in this area as well. Here I also believe that the public must go heavily into it. Then I would say that one has shown a certain will, and I think we must also discuss it further in the future. I am sorry that I come back to tax: we took a very important step in the tax policy for Norwegian base – that was the case with the petroleum tax – when we provided some of the tax system so that it would take care of the smaller development fields and make it more attractive to bring in new players and smaller players on Norwegian base. I believe that this has clearly been an enrichment for the Norwegian base and a line that we need to be aware of – and perhaps follow up on. So I think it's important to have thoughts about the total infrastructure on a Norwegian base – how we can see the fields in a larger context, and how we can better use common resources for the benefit of the community. I think that will be a major challenge in the future, which we must at the same time bear in mind. We also need to know who's really going to bring in the electricity, the energy that's being produced. Personally, I think it is natural that Statnett is involved in that role, but this has to be thought through, because I think, as I said, that in the future Norway has unique opportunities to build up precisely on the energy field and, not least, on new renewable energy. When we look at the objectives set by the EU by 2020, it is clear that they will have to get into port with them, they must also listen to Norway and join in and see what happens. The signal from the EU was already given when they approved expansion on Mongstad and Kårstø. But not least, they signaled clear participation in Skanled as an important part of their energy security. I think it's very important to bring that with. Then there is one point we need to discuss that I think has been of great importance, namely that we have had a generally good policy for the supplier industry. The supplier industry must be sure that it can survive in the future as well. We have to deal with this in such a way that this industry has security, we have to take on the tasks and be involved in development, so that it can feel safe. I think it's important to have predictability in the longer term, show that we want something about the policy here. It is clear that we could have said about the Barents Sea in the context of the management plan: No, nothing should happen here. We could say that. But we said, hey, something's going to happen here, but there's some areas where we have to spend a little bit more time. The pre-war principle should be at the bottom of what we do, for nothing would have been worse for us than that there had been some dramatic accident within this area. Then many of our resources could have been washed up – and the opinion could have been completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e892	This is the debate that one would like if one had had a big message anchoring in what the Government would – one could discuss what one should have changed. This will be a slightly more ambiguous debate, since one really does not have a starting point to deal with – in addition to what was written in 2005, which has not been updated since then. During the previous government, a petroleum notification described two scenarios for the Norwegian oil industry was submitted. One was the path of development, the other was the path of weather. All parties on the Stortinget – yes, even SV, I think – agreed that we should try to achieve the development path, i.e. maximise oil production and get the most out of the fields that were there. Everyone wanted the best, but history has shown that in the years that have passed since the decisions were taken, there has been a much closer trajectory than the positive development path. Much indicates that the Norwegian oil industry can get into a sunset situation faster than the Stortinget wanted in the previous period, and faster than many today. Nevertheless, many in this debate are just living on old memories of decisions that have been taken earlier and take credit for the production and revenue that you have today — that is almost a consequence of today’s decision. But everyone knows that with the exploration time in the oil industry — from decision making in the Storting to project launch, investment decisions are made and oil is starting to flow up and generate revenue — it can take both 10, 15 and 20 years. Therefore, the objective of a debate must be to link the objectives with the policy pursued. Does a Norwegian oil and gas business look like only a CO2 problem, something that individual batches do, or do you think of it as energy production? However, if you look at it in relation to the EU's renewable energy investment, which is record high by 2020, it is only half as much as Norway produced in 2007 on a Norwegian base to be expanded in the field of renewable energy in the next 12 years – only half. There is no reason to believe that the EU can further strengthen it when they already have such ambitious targets, but it says a little about the volume of energy we have on Norwegian soil. Or calculated in another way: the energy content produced on a Norwegian base in 2007 corresponds to 335 304 wind turbines with today’s standard and with today’s normal production conditions, according to the Norwegian wind power association – approx. 335000 windmills. Norway has a per cent share of the EU average. Today approx. 170 pieces -- that's a little bit left. Minister for the Environment Erik Solheim went out and supported the Church's campaign for five years to postpone oil operations in Norway, while he went out the same day and said: Hurrah, Hurrah, oil companies are being set up in Ghana – and Ghana is a strong example of good oil policy. So oil production in Norway is not good, while oil production elsewhere is very good. We also see the response of the Stoltenberg government when the EU experiences a supply failure in the field of gas. In some EU countries, decommissioning nuclear power plants starts because one needs to secure energy supply, and the Norwegian Government is not trying to get a debate on what Norway can do to strengthen its energy supply to the EU, but only notes that we are exporting everything we can today without wanting to take a discussion on what role we are going to have in the future. We simply have to be honest: does one want to extract the resources that are on the Norwegian base, or does one really want to leave them just for convenience in view of the Norwegian CO2 account? It is a challenge in the debate, because the oil and gas industry we have today is a consequence of decisions taken many decades ago. Then one has to ask: what kind of oil and gas industry will one get over the next ten years based on the decisions taken today? There I think the government is very offensively optimistic about what they actually deliver. But fortunately for the Council of State he does not have to be held responsible for it now, for history has not yet shown what the result is. What is important for the Advance Party is to ensure that the search areas are qualitatively good and not just large in quantity. We have to make sure that the concession rounds and the TFOs are taken care of. This is not what some in the Government believe they are undemocratic and should therefore be abolished. We have to make sure that there is predictability in the industry, so that people dare to invest. We have to make sure that money is actually allocated to research and development, so that one can continue to press the fronts, as the Council of State boasted, and not cut the appropriations for research and development, as one does, or as one actually sees from some members of the Government, that one will stop young people from taking petroleum-related education because one does not want people to choose that direction. It gives a completely wrong signal. We need to facilitate the development of infrastructure that makes larger and smaller fields profitable — in a context. That's how you have to approach this – not through the government's seminar tendencies, where all the way creates uncertainty about this is what you want in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e917	I wish that Ivar Kristiansen's interpellation had a somewhat different challenge for Norwegian growth after we now had a record of emissions in Norway, which is caused in particular by an emission permit granted by the previous government to a project that I would claim has a somewhat misleading name, namely Snow White. Ivar Kristiansen is in this interpellation concerned that we have a responsibility to be an oil and gas supplier in the future, and claims, like so many others, especially in the oil and gas industry, that we have a special responsibility towards the poor in the world for delivering stable supplies to them. That's also the part of the world's population that's going to be hit hardest by the climate change that oil and gas are contributing to cause. So Ivar Kristiansen said that we must decide to open new areas as quickly as possible. Then I have to ask whether it is not more general that we have a responsibility to stop contributing to climate problems as quickly as possible, and that we have a generation-wide responsibility both to prevent these climate change from running smoothly and to manage renewable and potentially eternal resources responsibly, also for the benefit of future generations. We've been infinitely lucky in Norway. We have had the hydropower – and still have it – and then we found oil. Then we also had forward-looking politicians in the last century who took hold of the natural resources, for the benefit of the people and the community. I can add that there was no lack of attack from the right side of Norwegian policy to try to sell away these resources instead. After all, we have had a debate recently on relapses – we know the story. Another important decision taken by Norwegian politicians is the tax regime on Norwegian pedestal. Then we have the CO2 tax, which Helge Lund also boasted during the large oil industry assembly in Sandefjord in January, because it has strengthened Norwegian competitiveness, contrary to the warnings just from the oil industry prior to this decision. It may seem that there is a widespread perception that a responsible climate policy and a responsible environmental policy can be reconciled with the continuous development and development of the Norwegian petroleum industry. I mentioned Snow White instead. Soon we'll also get Scurvy, which will increase the emissions by 1 pst. The older facilities we have on a Norwegian base will represent both a climate challenge and an environmental and safety challenge that we have to deal with in the future, and which we should take on a joint responsibility to address. In fact, the warnings of the Petroleum Authority in connection with some incidents, and on which they use the term ‘potential disasters’, have received unreasonably little attention in this Chamber from our Committee. Yesterday there was a marking on Egertorget, where representatives of the island state of Tuvalu appealed to the Kingdom of Norway. They ask rich countries to take responsibility for countries like Tuvalu not to sink into the sea. Tuvalu was also marked by climate change in Poznan last year, including the following: I was there. Prime Minister Apisai Ielemia appealed to us and said, "We believe that Tuvalu has the right to exist." That's our fundamental human right. The Norwegian petroleum industry must also be subject to the climate objectives we have set. In addition, it will be extremely demanding and risky to open up in more and more of the areas we have defined as vulnerable in Norway. Then we have to ask ourselves: how much risk will we take to be able to extend an oil age that represents both a climate problem and can represent a threat to vulnerable ecosystems and industries that depend on clean seas and pristine nature? CO2 management will put an end to the argument that Norwegian oil and gas can save the world. In addition, climate research shows that, in a frightful short time, we need to phase out the end use of fossil energy. One important point is that Norway is at a crossroads where we have to make some major, serious choices for the future: what to live on when the oil age comes to an end — because it does — and how to bring ourselves to the forefront of what will come in any case. The oil industry is extremely resource-intensive. Investments and people are sucking there, while we need both investment and people to get to the big deal that everyone is talking about in new renewable energy and CO2 management. Engineers, geologists and technologists do not grow on trees – neither do researchers. Therefore, it is our responsibility also to make some unpleasant choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e945	I'm glad that the interpellant puts this topic on the agenda, because it's important for the Storting to discuss this. It is a great nourishment for our country. At the same time, this large industry must be involved in the overall efforts we must have in relation to the climate challenges. It is a fact that the activity on Norwegian pedestal falls. It falls more than the predictions we've been dealing with earlier here in the Storting, and that's the new thing. That we will have a falling activity should not surprise this assembly. The new is, in addition, the financial crisis and that we have also had a sharp fall in oil prices. It does make several planned investments less profitable, which can lead to a lower activity on the base in the short term. But it can also help to ensure that some of the most expensive and perhaps least environmentally friendly extensions are not realised. Right wants to use this situation to put further pressure on the opening of oil activity in vulnerable marine areas – or ‘interesting areas’, as the representative of Kristiansen refers to these areas as. The Christian People's Party does not agree with such an approach. We believe that it should be based on a precautionary principle even in the phase we are currently in, with regard to the activity on the Norwegian base. Instead of pressing for an opening of the Lofoten and the Vesterål, which in any case will not be put into operation for 15 years, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to have a stronger commitment to further increase the extraction rate in existing fields. Here we have a lot to pick up. The Oil Directorate recommends that we get a stronger commitment in this field, both in research and in development. We know that technology development here has been important to increase the extraction rate on Norwegian pedestal. Goliath has been mentioned in this debate. It is a small field, but it is a field of great industrial importance, as the Council of State said in a debate earlier here. I am pleased with the points of the Council of State, that there must be very good reasons to change the position in opening up in the Lofoten and in the West. That was the answer he gave to the representative Gunnar Kvassheim after his contributions in a debate earlier today. I am pleased that the Council of State signals this from this pulpit, as we are not given the opportunity to take the general discussions on this matter at this point in time. But as far as Goliath is concerned, I hope the Council of State emphasises the need for rational coordination, reviewing blocks and owners, which is a policy that this House has adopted in this field. What's interesting about the hours we've now discussed oil and petroleum policy and gas policy is that we're confirmed that two out of three government parties do not really agree with the government's oil policy. SV has a restrictive oil and gas policy. The centre party, at Erling Sande, has confirmed that Lundtägen's statements to the NRK yesterday are the party's policy. What is a little difficult in this matter is that the petroleum policy pursued by the majority government of the country does not really have the support of two of the party programmes. The representative of Thorkildsen had a little visit to Skarv and said this would help increase emissions. There was one thing from this government – if I don't remember completely wrong, SV voted for the development of Skarv. Nor was the party involved in any of the alternative proposals promoted by the Left and Christian People's Party in this matter in order to take a holistic approach in order to make the future at least more environmentally friendly in view of the requirements we set for development. But I don't remember SV – despite Thorkildsen's commitment to Skarv in this case now – voting in favour of our proposals. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e960	Today, the daily newspaper has a comment article entitled “The Miljøkrämmer”. It refers to an article that was in today's business on Saturday and that went on quota trading. The main message of the article was that Jens Stoltenberg has played a central role in developing international trade in climate quotas and that, according to the article, this policy is intended to prevent the oil exporter Norway from losing money on a more restrictive international climate policy. So there is a scheme to trade quotas, leading to reductions in other countries, so that a large number of ‘business as usual’ can be found in Norway. Not only is Jens Stoltenberg's construction, it is the foundation of today's government's climate policy – using quota trading to a large extent and, in the case of Norwegian industry, facilitating a high level of free allowances. This approach to climate and oil policy is not related to the way No Marte Thorkildsen reasoned in his article. I have great expectations of the conclusion that No Marte Thorkildsen draws in terms of Goliath expansion, based on the hardy statements she makes in her contribution related to the commitments Norway has, and the consequences it must have for Norwegian oil and gas policy. The matter we are discussing now is related to the previous case, and I refer to the fact that on behalf of the Left in that context I underlined the great importance and value of the petroleum industry in the Norwegian community. We want to facilitate the further development of this industry, and then technology development and research are key instruments. We'll get back to that in the next case. But it's also about access to land. It's not like we either have access to everything we want of the area or we don't have access to anything. Norwegian political tradition in this area has been to sort. It's going to be totally dependent on the future as well. There will be some areas you say no to and some areas you say yes to. SV was the only party that went to the election last time that we would not open any areas in the north. One has now been involved in opening large areas, thus diverging from what is the party's point of view. I think one also has to do it in the future. There are areas in the north, in the Barents Sea, which must be and shall be made available. But we in the Left believe that it must be balanced against, for example, that. The Lofoten and the Vesterål won't be. But there are also exciting areas on other parts of the Norwegian base. There are fields and resources that have not yet been exploited, but which should be exploitable in the future, technology development and the benefits that can be derived from research. I would also like to point out the dual objective we have for both the environmentally good use of Norwegian-based resources and the provision of opportunities for our good oil and gas industry – which also has a lot to do internationally, not least in terms of the environment – to have good opportunities to develop on the international market. I would also like to point out that our oil and gas industries have valuable competences and resources that need to be used when we are increasingly phased into using renewable energy production. It's e.g. such as in marine energy production that there is a clear possibility to build on this competence. I record that Statoil spends hundreds of millions of kroner on marine energy production. That's good. I also register that the supplier industry, for example. Aker Solutions in Verdal, now producing both for the offshore market and for the offshore wind market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e972	First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction at the debate, which I believe has been constructive. Most people have made it clear that they want Norwegian oil industry to develop in the future — in Norway. That is a very central and crucial point. There's an exception here, represented by Inga Marte Thorkildsen. But now leave it in this context. The important thing is not to evolve towards action paralysis, when important and significant decisions are needed to enable this industry to develop in Norway. The alternative will literally mean, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen was in it, sunset for this industry. I guess nobody wants it. I share the approach of the representative of Tore Nordtun in the debate, that Norway should and should evolve to become Europe's stable energy supplier in the future. But also in this area, action, policies and, not least, the ability to make decisions are required. I also agree that we have had stability and consensus around these issues in the growth phase for almost 40 years. We obviously have a tax regime in this area that is an example for the rest of the world. At the same time, I think we need to realize that time is in place to be able to stimulate also through tax and research on increased development, not least in the field development of mature land. Perhaps we should also go in and assess whether part of the special tax, in particular in the case of activities further north, can be channelled towards building a robust environmental fund, a robust preparedness that can take account of a situation in which oil industry has to go hand in hand with fishing industry. This also requires a more active exercise of authority and a more active authority policy. It must not be that the environment and climate become a circuit championship, that we say to Europe that you should be so good at taking a phone to Russia to buy energy for the future. We still have to believe that where Norwegian gas can replace European coal, this is good for the environment. We must also have faith that Norwegian technology, in particular environmental technology, can replace, for example, the technology standards of other countries, also have a positive environmental impact. This must be the starting point for our further approach to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e983	The debate is well marked by the major impact of the petroleum sector on Norwegian society. There is no sector as per. have similar influence today, with the economic size of that sector and the impact it will have both through direct transfers to the country and through ring-fences related to employment. It is staggering what we have been able to do in the oil and gas industry in Norway for the last 40 years. I dare say that there is no country in the world that has succeeded better in developing this sector than we have done in Norway. We're going to allow ourselves to rejoice over that, while there's no doubt that the phase we're now going into has other challenges than the phase we've been through. I think the debate in and on its own has shown it. It is partly about dealing with fields that are more complicated to extract, where the fields are smaller, and it is partly about combining them with the major environmental and climate challenges, which appear to be the greatest of all things for us in our time, and which obviously presents some challenges beyond what we have seen so far in the combination of energy and climate and the environment. The representative Kristiansen takes some words in his mouth at the end of his post. One is paralysis, that's not what's going on. I have commented on it in a previous post, and I believe I have used two good examples of the opposite of paralysis. One is the management plan for the Barents Sea, and the other is the equivalent we were dealing with for the Norwegian Sea. To me, it's the opposite of paralysis. I have a certain suspicion that the representative of Kristiansen believes that not opening the Lofoten and the Vesterål means paralysis of action. I think, as others have also been involved in the debate, that it is too simple an entry point, and that Norwegian oil and gas policy is about so much more than that. Then I also found out that the representative Kristiansen had a comment on whether we should give a message to Europe that Europe was going to come into a situation where they had to take a phone call to Russia to get more gas. I also think that is a sort of conclusion, insofar as I am absolutely sure of what the conclusion really was, which I think might indicate a slightly special approach to what is the specific situation in the gas market in Europe now. Norway is considered to be a very safe and stable supplier of gas to the European market. It has been signaled by the Norwegian authorities that we want to be in the future. We are seeing an increase in gas production in Norway in the future, and that means we are also going to deliver more gas to Europe in the future than we have done in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e992	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1008	The background to the interpellation is the state budget of the year, where the allocations for petroleum research are reduced by about 1 %. 15 pst. That's the exact opposite of what was sketched no later than a few years ago, where one wanted the allocation to be increased by almost 50 pst. from that level. This is a very short-term policy. The amount of value creation from the petroleum industry in the future depends on how good we are to take advantage of the remaining estimated 70 pst. of the resources on the Norwegian base. So there is a significant potential for oil and gas production for decades to come if we make the right decisions today. The future petroleum industry is therefore not a consequence of yesterday’s decision but of today’s decision. That's something that we should have in mind. We have had two debates on petroleum and petroleum policy just ahead of this. It was interesting to register the Government's desire to appear as complete and predictable, but that illusion broke as soon as SV entered the debate. I understand that the Workers' Party's representatives were out of the Chamber in protest during that post. It is very happy to see that they are back and will discuss petroleum research. Let me take a review of the importance of the industry, because there's obviously a point that goes by some houses. Petroleum industry is central to the Norwegian economy and business. It generates significant revenues, including export revenues, from oil and gas sales. The production value in 2007 was SEK 600 billion – only in 2007 it was NOK 600 billion. That's about. one third of the country's revenues derived from the petroleum activity. It employs 78 000 people directly and across the country. One has strong technology and research clusters linked to this sector from Stavanger and Bergen to Harstad and Hammerfest. Yes, in recent years, we've also had a very strong development of the NODE cluster in Agder, where the turnover from it has increased by 240 pst. And so, just in a few years. It says a little bit about what kind of value creation, what kind of employment and what kind of driving power the petroleum industry is for the technology and engineering environments in Norway. It is also important to remember that the product of this industry is energy. If we choose to shut down the oil and gas industries, as some in this will obviously want, one has to have an alternative. The IEA, which presented its energy analysis for 2008, said that if we reach the two-degree target, which is possible in their world, gas production in the world will, however, increase – as opposed to what SV is talking about – and oil consumption will decrease slightly, but far from being eliminated. In addition, an add-on of approx. 20 nuclear power plants. One has to increase today's windmill production by 50 pst. annual up to 2030, and one has to make a huge effort on the one hand and a huge investment in CO2 clean-up of coal and gas power plants. There is no reason to believe that in the next decades the world will be free of oil and gas – ergo must put its finger in the ground and ensure that that industry can develop in the most profitable and environmentally friendly way possible, instead of believing that it can be eliminated. I would also challenge those who believe that oil and gas industries should not have a future, to ask the EU about that view. Does one believe that, with its commitment to the 20-20-20 targets in 2020, the EU aims to also eliminate Norwegian oil and gas production by 2020? I doubt that very much. We also know that the capital invested in the oil industry has an international market. If one is not allowed to invest in Norway, other places are invested, and probably still in petroleum production and not in other things. However, it is not just energy production that is important and that is an export product for Norway. The supplier industry itself and the technological development it represents have become an important export article. Just last year there was a sale of almost 100 billion kroner to the rest of the world. When the Minister of Energy and the Crown Prince travels to Mexico, it shows the industry’s potential. It is not nice that Norwegian industry can travel around and promote that technology, because it is world-leading. It is world-leading because in previous periods it has been the case that it is important to invest in, which has increased the allocation of petroleum-oriented research, which has facilitated the development of the Institute for the Merge and New Solutions of Oil Companies, by allocating search areas that are difficult and demanding, but where the industry knows they have something to work for – they have problems to solve. Then they put in money, and they invented the most amazing solutions. The Worm Lange is an example of that. The worm Lange was not developed because someone sat at a desk and planned all this without knowing if they would need it. The worm Lange was developed because the oil companies knew that if they got those solutions in place, they would extract the oil and the gas. Ergo: There are concrete objectives, and there are concrete challenges that can be solved through technology development – not the opposite. That is why it is important to have that approach. Petroleum research and work in the supplier industry are important because the use of resources on a Norwegian base can be improved. I remember that 1 pst. increase in the degree of oil extraction gives an additional income of NOK 300 billion. In addition, there is a further increase in exports of technology. What is also an important point is that environmental solutions that the industry can deliver, both in terms of the clean production of oil and gas and also in terms of what the engineering environment can develop in relation to renewable energy and other emission reduction measures, are important to include. There is no reason to believe that there is a renewable industry in Norway that can take over the engineering environment in the oil industry, provide them with wages and challenges in a way that the oil industry is currently doing. They must do so in cooperation. It's our oil and gas sales that provide us with the revenues and environments of expertise needed to deliver the renewable solutions tomorrow. But what's important in this case is to take on board that today's leadership in technology does not automatically provide leadership tomorrow. In competition with international actors, we can quickly be overlooked. Therefore, it is important that we build on the international advantages we have in this sector, rather than having an approach that we have seen from individual parties, in which we will politically steer young people away from petroleum-oriented research and education because it should not be part of the future. There is the challenge that the Government must be very clear that there should be no current policy, even if some representatives go out and say so. The supplier industry must be the best to win assignments internationally, and they must be the best every day. If you're not fast and you focus on further technology development, you'll be quickly overlooked. It is important that the industry can cooperate with the authorities on this, because, in particular, the supplier industry, which is one of the driving forces in technology development, does not have the capital base and the margins that allow them to take this promise alone. That is why the state has a role to play. But the state also has a self-interest here in terms of the value creation of the base, because we see that oil fields or gas fields that are now to be developed are increasingly difficult to develop – longer at sea, deeper at sea, and there are less fields. This means that technology needs to be more efficient in order to exploit it in a profitable way. There are many themes that still need to be developed: everything from increased extraction rates, long distances from land, deeper water, more difficult environment, integrated operations, reservoir understanding, cutting wells, better environmental solutions and reduced drilling costs. There's a lot of challenges where we're leading, but where there's a lot more you can pick up to do this better, cheaper and more environmentally friendly. Administrations must have a central role in petroleum-related research, because it is the country that is the major resource owner and has the great interest in extracting resources better. With the current tax regime, and the ownership of both StatoilHydro – or Statoil, as it should be called in the future – and not least in Petoro, the state will have the most to pick up when you get more of the resources from the ground up. Increased extraction rates or more efficient operation therefore mean a great deal to the country’s sources of income. In addition, the Ministry of Oil and Ergi is a precursor to much of the existing national technology strategy, for example. OG21, which gives priority to Petromaks and Demo 2000. It is the OED who appoints the representatives of the OG21, Petromaks and Demo 2000. We know that for every krone in which the government spits, the industry spits in approx. Three dollars. It shows that this is a very fine catalyst for developing technology environments and ensuring Norway’s role. Now that the research projects have been cut, it can be seen that some of the projects are actually under way. For Demo 2000, this is very damaging because the programme is aimed at the piloting and qualification of new technologies, i.e. direct user-oriented work, of which we will now be in danger of losing a part. We know that international oil companies, like Shell, have put several of their technology and research centers to Norway, because they see that this is a cluster collaboration, where the state is inside. We know that large international suppliers, such as FMC Technologies, have added their oil and gas headquarters to Norway – a combination of challenges and markets on Norwegian pedestals, development opportunities, competences and funding. This means that Norway should continue to see its role, and the state should be aware of its responsibilities, because petroleum research is something we need, both to develop the petroleum industry and to ensure good income, but also to facilitate the engineering environment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1045	Research into the optimal and sustainable use of our petroleum resources is very important. The State's intention to invest in this area has contributed to major technological progress and significant value creation on Norwegian soil. The horizontal wells on the Trollfield, the water injection in the Ecofic and the submerged installations on successive times mentioned by the Worm Lange have been the result of research-based knowledge, which has helped us to realize enormous values. A continuous focus on research and technology development has helped to build up the strong supply clusters we have in Norway today. The clusters we know traded for NOK 195 billion in 2007. Innovation and technological breakthroughs that have taken place on the Norwegian base have been a key factor in the internationalisation of the Norwegian supplier industry in the last decade. In other words, the interaction between oil companies, suppliers and research communities has produced very good results. Then it is that the state has a very high interest in ensuring the maximum and the most environmentally friendly value creation on Norwegian soil. As I mentioned in my previous post, we have used around one third of our estimated petroleum resources. There is a large resource base, there is a large income potential again, but there are major technological challenges to developing the remaining resources. Norwegian petroleum activities are therefore facing significant challenges. We see the falling production. We see the need to look at the extraction share from the mature fields, and we see the need for cost-effective solutions to the smaller findings being made. Norwegian petroleum activities are world leaders in the use of resources that are environmentally friendly. But we can still get better, and we're going to get better. In this context, the link to working in the north is relevant because we see opportunities in the north, but at the same time we see clear challenges in moving forward in relation to the environmental challenges associated with oil and gas production. It will therefore be a major challenge to be able to get the petroleum activity and the petroleum activity to be as gentle as possible for the environment and in relation to other societal interests. In the light of the climate challenges, it is necessary to focus on CO2 management – CCS. Substantial research and development efforts are required to reduce costs and disseminate technology as well as to improve the competence for safe storage of CO2. I am absolutely convinced that if the costs of research do not come down to a completely different level than what we see today in terms of the capture and storage of CO2, that technology will become a technology for the few. It becomes a technology that can be interesting to a country like Norway, which is one of the world's absolute richest. If technology is to have the desired effect, it must also be applicable to countries such as the United Kingdom. China and India, where we know that there are a lot of projects that there is a need to clean. So research and development in that area is extremely important. The interpellant mentioned OG21, and I think that is relevant. It is a technology strategy for the 21st century and was established in 2001 in cooperation between authorities, oil companies, supplier industries, universities and research institutes – a strategy aimed at increasing value creation, towards the efficient and environmentally friendly development of petroleum activities on Norwegian soil and at increasing competitiveness and exports from the supplier industry. The cooperation that characterises this is unique in an international context. I have therefore asked OG21 to go through the strategy, look at it and review it, in order to take better account of the challenges we are now facing – and then with special emphasis on what is going on climate challenges, and what is going on in the global challenge, based on what is happening in the climate sector. Suppliers and oil companies in Norway spend considerable amounts on research in Norway. The public contribution is relatively modest compared to what is used by industry. I am concerned that the public funds should make a difference. I see a number of areas where the public should play a role. The first thing I want to draw out there is what goes on in the long term. It often takes 10–20 years to see the benefits of targeted research and development efforts. We have to accept that industry often has a somewhat shorter time horizon, and it is important that the public contributes to building the bridge in relation to the time axis. Then we look specifically at the building of competences, that public funds contribute to it, and that in itself is a good argument for using public funds. Through the Petromax programme, which is largely funded by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, we support more than 200 scholarship holders. Public support therefore also plays an important role in the exchange of knowledge between academia and industry. So I mentioned what was going on at CCS, and to take the entrance with regard to the environment as such, we see that almost one third of Norwegian CO2 emissions come from the petroleum activity on Norwegian base. Researching energy-efficient solutions and researching lower greenhouse gas emissions on the base will help reduce emissions. We see that we have come beyond many other countries in this area, and research and technology development will and will contribute to the continuation of such environmental and effective development on the ground. As far as the value added side is concerned, public support for testing and piloting new technologies has helped significantly reduce the risk to industry, making it easier for industry to invest. In addition, it has led to the commercialisation of the concepts. Technology that would hardly have emerged has just emerged as a result of public resource use. We also see that we have achieved cooperation as a result of this. So it's true, as the interpellant said, this year we spend a little less money through public budgets on petroleum-oriented research than we did in the previous year. However, we spend a significant amount on petroleum research on the state budget – a total of about 355 million. kr in 2009. That is a sum that we also need to see in the context of which research we have chosen to prioritise in the energy field otherwise. I'll come back to that a little bit. I am concerned that petroleum research as such should have good conditions in the future, precisely as a result of the challenges I mentioned earlier in my article. We see that the demand for oil and gas is going to increase by 2030, even in the scenarios where one gets to stabilise global warming by 2 degrees. The IEA expects an increase in energy use of approx. 45 pst. within this time period. Then we see that we have a formidable challenge, where the world is going to want to use in some more energy than today, and where the same world – or perhaps more precisely, Earth – does not tolerate the consequences of the same energy use. So that means that researching and breaking codes in this area becomes absolutely necessary. I imagine that Norway will contribute to the necessary energy revolution needed in the future in terms of energy-climate relations. We have therefore chosen to strengthen research efforts in this area. We have strengthened our efforts at carbon capture and storage. We have strengthened research considerably on more environmentally friendly energy systems, and the budget growth from 2007 to 2009 in this area is a total of 300 million. kr. That is also my explanation of why there is slightly less money in the field of petroleum research in 2009 than in 2007. We have seen that there were some areas in which it was now extremely important to increase efforts. This is the one example. Within CCS, we have substantially increased public research efforts in 2009 to approximately 150 million. kr. In addition to that, the bet will be on cleaning in Mongstad, where we have deposited the expected amounts both for this year and for the coming years, with which the Storting is well known. That's how many billions we're talking about here. This means that in 2009 we have chosen to shift resource use somewhat towards climate jobs, towards capture and storage, towards breaking codes within that part of the petroleum activity. I am absolutely sure that it is a good investment, also isolated for the petroleum industry, because it will help to find solutions that are absolutely necessary for that industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1094	It is a bit strange to hear the Council of State talk about how great it is with petroleum research, how many breakthroughs you have had, how important it is for the Norwegian supplier industry, what revenues it can bring us, how important oil and gas are to energy supply in the short and medium term, although everyone agrees that in the short and medium term, alternative renewable energy sources must be developed that can be the main source of energy in the future. But to go from this brilliance and shelf stone to petroleum-oriented research just to conclude that one chose to reduce the appropriations by 50 million. So it's going to be 15 pst. of the appropriations – there is a logical flaw that becomes completely unreasonable for me to understand. When one sees what incomes a person receives from this industry, when one sees what challenges it has to develop a technology that makes this profitable in terms of further developing the large source of income that it is, and not least the great source of energy that it is, then there is no connection when one then chooses to cut the key to developing the industry for the future, such as research and development. This shows, in my opinion, that the government is taking more or less the revenue from the oil industry seriously, and does not see the importance of seeing today in order to harvest tomorrow. Yes, money is still being allocated to petroleum research. No one disagrees. There are large amounts in terms of the private income of ordinary people, but compared to the values we're talking about here, which the oil industry represents, with a turnover of 700 billion kroner for the nation of Norway, is 355 million. kr very, very little. The reason why this is so important is that the state funds that you give here stimulate cooperation across the industry. It builds up what has been the Norwegian model that others look up to. It's increasing the spread of new technology that we're using. When individual oil companies develop new technologies and break through, they try to keep technology to themselves, because it provides competitive advantages. What one sees, is that when the state has been inside the environments, we get a spread of technology because the state is a catalyst for this. And the state is involved in ensuring that we get funded projects that individual companies would not have any interest in doing. We know that in the long run, the technology companies and engineers travel where the conditions for research and development are best. The signals we give now, when we cut in the kind of state support for that kind of work, are signals that Norway is not the area where to bet if one is to be the leader on the technology side, at least not when one sees how many of the countries that are now developing their oil industry choose to invest. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to explain a little bit about the logic of cutting back on the appropriations for research and development, which, after all, is what will carry the industry forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1103	The representative Solvik-Olsen is asking for the logic here. The answer to that is one word found in my vocabulary – which is not necessarily used very often among the opposition parties on the Stortinget, at least not in the Advance Party – and that is to give priority. What is then the matter is that when I sit and make my budgets, when the government sits and makes its budgets, we have to choose between and give priority between some different areas. What I have chosen to do this year is to prioritise what is going on in research into capture and storage, and it's going to be a priority in climate work, because I'm absolutely convinced that the main challenge of the petroleum industry in the future lies there. So it's not like 50 million. kr from or to my budget in this area is a yes or no to research in petroleum-related activities. I very much defend spending 355 million. kr on this. I could defend using 405 million. NOK, and I could probably also defend myself to spend 500 million. kr in relation to the fact that we can manage to get good results and get results from what we do on the research page here. But as I said, we also need to address research efforts in other areas, and then it is my responsibility – and in particular my duty – to make an assessment of this. With regard to the debates we have had in the United Kingdom earlier today, on renewable investment and on climate and environmental challenges, I think it is quite natural to put this debate into that context and bring forward the importance of our ability to say: okay, much is important, but it is actually something that is even more important than the other things, and it is to move on to capture and storage, it is to ensure that we get a technology in place that allows us to produce oil and gas in 20-30 years, too, without it contributing to the atmosphere becoming too full of CO2 that we are able to get it into the Sleipner formation, or where it might be. That is my answer to the question put by Mr Solvik-Olsen. I am absolutely sure that it has zero sound bottoms in the representative's own assessments. But in relation to what I'm working on, I'm absolutely sure it's a proper assessment of the major challenges we're facing on the climate and the environment side now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1117	There's two tracks that are important here. The future's petroleum policy is one of the tracks. The environmental consequences of this petroleum policy must be clearly identified here. Then we must also take action against the environmental consequences of a petroleum policy, so that we can live in harmony, so that we can take the important steps ahead. And the important steps forward are, among other things, the research part of this. It is clear that Norway, which has made quite good money in petroleum development, sales of these things, etc., has developed industrially and researchally, needs to make a return to the biggest challenge we have, and that is the climate challenge. I also imagine that it will be quite difficult in the future to be able to look at some areas and say that these areas here we are not putting an environmental strategy for the future. It is clear that in these areas there must also be conditions for further development of the areas – that is: What are the environmental consequences of this? What are we going to do in these areas? That's exactly what the government is doing at Mongstad, carbon capture and storage. But it's clear that this is new work. It was not paychecks when you started. You had to break the road. It will help reduce emissions to the atmosphere quite considerably in the future when we get these storage sites in place, and we get the cleaning, i.e. the capture of the exhaust gas. So I'll also draw two other perspectives. One is that I think it must be completely parallel to research. It's important for us to get more out of the fields in terms of both oil and gas. And with the income we have on the rent, it should just be missing that we shouldn't be involved in a technology development here too, so that we can get more out of it. The generations after us will also see that it's important. Then I have to say that there has been tremendous progress in drilling technology, etc., and not least the adventure that has happened in the Ecofisk field, where you are now in the third phase of raising it to extract even more. It is clear that this would not have been possible without research. Of course, the company that has gone in the breeze, but also the public has been with and supported very strongly beyond this. But again, as the interpellant said, there is a cooperation and interaction between the authorities, the oil company and the supplier industry, and not least the universities and the research institutes. These are the ones that have to go hand in hand. We must also have faith in the future. It disappoints me a lot that someone is talking about the sunset industry. No, this is not a sunset industry. But if you keep on talking about it and talking about it at maximum, it's less and less of the growing genus that's going to apply to this industry. What I now think is exciting about the environment in Mongstad and other signals you've given, and what you're doing now is that this industry can be forward-looking. It could be an exciting industry to invest in its professional career in the future, because there are also major environmental aspects here. It's obvious that it's exciting, it's challenging, it's groundbreaking, and then people will look to this industry, and not to an industry that many people now love to say is a so-called dirty industry. With regard to the IEA and what they have said, you have to take it very seriously. What's in the IEA's projections when they talk about the 2030 target and how important these types of energy are to achieve the two-degree target is a clear signal that Norway has to do its duty here when we're in the position that we're in economics, etc., and we have to steer it in the right direction. But I might have wanted the companies themselves to take a little more initiative in terms of the environmental aspect. I have only noticed it: when Norway was the first nation to introduce CO2 tax on torch on the base, it was criticism from the end to the end of the industry. Today the industry says that it was with and further developed technology; it helped to put us on a better footing. We have gained experience of that, and today they say that this was the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1135	What this debate is about is getting research efforts back on track. It's a timely question that the interpellant raises today. There is no doubt that the highest world-class knowledge, research, technology and technology have brought Norway to the fore on these issues. So then the government's answer is at a time when production is about to reach the peak, and a few years in time is going to be considerably reduced, that a cut is being made within the research budget. I have noticed that the answer today is to refer to Kårstø and Mongstad, and that of course the Right in its own way will be involved in helping to solve CCS capture and storage of CO2. But this is about so much, much more. For example, there is a lack of research and development resources to develop new methods and reservoir technologies that can increase the extraction rate of oil. And as the interpellant was inside, 1 pst. further field extraction will represent revenues for the Norwegian State of around NOK 300 billion. There are only a few joint industrial projects in this type of reservoir technology. Some of the largest companies carry out R & D projects internally, or are a significant sponsor of research institutes in Norway for carrying out reservoir technology studies. There are also too few research fellows in Norway for this type of reservoir-related R & D. So we know that the interest in real science among Norwegian students is quite falling, and the competition for graduates in the petroleum industry is increasing. Research scholarships in geology and geophysics are often awarded to foreign students today. This is about priority, or lack of such. For this piece of rest: I record that the Council of State gives the representative Solvik-Olsen some kind of training. It's not sure it lasts with just a few minutes in some areas. In other areas, he is almost fully trained. But the word ‘priorities’: we can at least notice that the government has given priority in this case, and – I repeat – it is in a situation where Norwegian oil production is halved over a 15-year period. We need to pay more attention to basic research. We need to pay more attention to research on oil protection and preparedness. If we are to be at the top of this area in the future, and if we are to solve the CO2 challenge, the climate challenge, it is actually this environment that needs to bear the main emphasis of development in the future. In terms of income, there is no doubt, as has been said here, that knowledge has given this industry a significant export income. It represents a significant employment along the Norwegian coast, and in fact it contributes to the fact that the largest winner in terms of reaping expenditure in the field of research is the State itself. It is therefore, finally from my point of view, a close link between petroleum research and the need for increased investment, which has been proposed on the right time and time again in the Stortinget, and which is also addressed by the inter-pellant, and the Norwegian objective of resolving the capture and storage quota around CO2 treatment from our gas power plants and production plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1161	Often I notice that criticism of the dependence on oil and gas that Norway has is made as a distance of reality and introverts. But we have to, for example, be very pleased with the distortion that has occurred in the field of research, and that, among other things. is the result of the climate agreement we have entered into in Stortinget. There has been a shift in efforts towards research on new renewable energy and on CO2 capture and storage. It's very forward-looking. It means something climate-friendly, but it also means that we can lay the foundation for a transformation that Norway will face in the future and that is absolutely necessary. It also means a lot of business policy for Norway. This is not about bringing Norway into a future where we suddenly have nothing to live on anymore. On the contrary, a clear political stance on this is that we are going to lay the foundation for the industries that we are going to live on and that will work within future generations. Then I notice that it is often produced in such a way that we can both have a massive investment in the petroleum industry and get a massive investment in new renewable energy and in CO2 capture and storage. I don't think so. We can rely on a lot of research reports as well as on environments that look at just how Norway is going to make this transition to a low-carbon economy, to support why it is not the case that we can get a massive stake in both. We have to make some choices. For example, we have received a report, which is very interesting, from the Technology Council, called Plan B – Value Creation for the Low Emission Economy. They go through, field by field, how Norway can use just our comparative advantage and the knowledge we have built up in the petroleum industry to bring up new industries that do not contribute to the global climate on spills or industries in other sectors, such as waste. fisheries and tourism, which are very topical in the debate on the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja, and the extent to which we are going to allow the petroleum sector to enter our most vulnerable areas, with the consequences it may have. The starting point for Plan B and the report of the Technology Council are: ‘the sustained increase in greenhouse gas emissions, both in Norway and globally. According to the Global Carbon Project, man-made CO2 emissions have grown four times as fast as in 2000 as in 1990-1999. Emissions are now above the most dramatic of the scenarios of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change”. Then it is with amazement that I am listening to parts of the debates that have been going on to date. It may seem that we should not take our responsibility in the global picture, where emissions are actually increasing. Sickness about Norwegian petroleum industry is one of the most environmentally friendly in the world – and it is a result of environmental requirements that have been imposed by tough politicians before us – yet the oil and gas we take up is being burned by somewhere. Then it leads to large emissions, which in turn leads to a climate problem. There is also some reason why our government is now shifting resources to research into new renewable energy and has the huge investment in CO2 capture and storage. But I just want to remind you that it's because of SV's government participation and that we've been working hard in an alliance with broad public environments in Norway that put our foot down to bet on highly polluting gas power plants, that we're at the forefront of CO2 management internationally. It has also helped us to influence EU policies in this area. If we hadn't done that, we would have been way worse out there than we are. Now we can become part of the solution instead of just being part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1195	In the climate agreement, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left agreed with the Government on the following: ‘The public contributions related to research on new renewable energy sources shall by 2010 at least be at the level of the corresponding public contribution to petroleum research.’;» This was an important point in the climate agreement, and it was also an important point to make when we discussed the deal. This does not mean that we would cut off petroleum-oriented research, even though that is the way the government decided to interpret this point afterwards. The Christian People's Party is committed to increasing the degree of exploitation of existing fields on the base, so that we get the most out of each one of them. With today's plans we know that over 50 pst. the oil will remain on the base after the installations have been removed and the boreholes re-opened. This is not good administrative thinking. It's simply being bad administrators. And we know that the Oil Directorate has pointed out that there is a need for technological development here – more research is needed. When the Christian People's Party is concerned that we should increase the extraction rate in existing fields, it is also linked to another large and important area: electrification of the socket. We know that we should have the opportunity – and we must – to electrify the socket in view of the climate challenges, we need to think more comprehensively about solutions in relation to the proximity to the different fields. Norway was and is a shipping nation. The knowledge we have of building ships, we have used to develop into an oil and gas nation. Then we've used the technology and knowledge we've gained in oil and gas to develop renewable technologies. We have very specific examples in wind power, with which Aker Verdal operates. We have very specific examples in CO2 management, where we are world leaders in Norwegian technology, which has just been developed through this support: ship, oil and gas development and now renewable technologies. This is an important perspective to take further into account when we continue to focus on oil and gas development. I urge the Council of State to interpret the climate agreement so that renewable energy research is raised to the level of petroleum research – not to reduce petroleum research to reduce the distance between renewable energy and petroleum research. I am pleased with the priority that the Council of State is doing in relation to petroleum research – the fact that he adds that there is a catch and storage we are going to bet on, and what he calls cracking the code so that oil and gas will be included as an energy bearer also in the future energy image related to the forecasts that the International Energy Agency is setting up. But it must also be said from this pulpit – even if the Council of State says that these are modest means that the State contributes to petroleum research and that the industry contributes heavily – that we know from the industry itself that the contribution of the state constitutes a difference. It is important to get new technological solutions in place that the state is there. The Council of State even talked about making a difference, and that the state has to stand for long-term policy. Yeah, that's right. But then it's important that we are there on an equal footing in renewable research, which needs to be increased, and that we get two major research environments that together can help create a better climate for the world's poor and for the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1220	Today we have had three debates, possibly three and a half to four, which go largely on the same theme. There are issues related to the oil and gas activities and the future of that industry. I think this fragmentation of the debates is a good visualization of the fact that it could have been useful to have an overall production of a petroleum message, which could then form the basis for a debate in Stortinget. The second thing that has characterized this debate today is that representatives of the Government say one thing and do something else. We were promised an oil message – we don't get any oil messages. We were promised an energy message – we don't get an energy message. There has been a call for a commitment to renewable energy production to get new projects up and running. That's not happening. Also in the case of the CO2 bet, with which No Marte Thorkildsen was so pleased, is unfortunately the main headline: Lift break! The Soria Moria statement said that the emissions from Kårstø should be cleaned by 2009. Nor would any new gas power plant be allowed unless it was cleaned from day one. Now we know that the gas power plant at Kårstø has no explanation about and, if necessary, when it is being cleaned, and there are also unresolved questions related to the cleaning in the future at Mongstad. Also, when it comes to investing in research, there is a lack of consistency between what the government says it should do and what it actually does. In the context of research, one did not conceal that one believed that after a great deal of research in the Bondevik II government, there was time for a break. It wasn't in any way adapted to the challenges we're facing. Then the previous increased bet should have been followed up with further escalating. The left has prioritised this in its alternative state budget: we have invested more in research than the government has planned. We've been focusing on research in a wide range of ways. Through the climate negotiations, we have contributed to increased investment in research related to renewable energy production. It's a completely necessary escalation. Here it is a great potential. The fact is that so far in Norway we have spent more resources on nuclear research than on renewable energy research. However, it should not have been necessary to take this promise at the same time as a tone-down on the petroleum sector. I certainly believe that it is good resource policy to facilitate the good use of fields that are known, and to be able to exploit fields that one today does not have technology to exploit. It must also be a positive contribution in the international perspective. But that does not mean that the Left is not concerned about having a marked increase in both research and the development of renewable energy production. I think that both the inter-pellant and the state councils have well illustrated the impact Norway has had on research and technology development in the petroleum sector. I think the potential is great to get many new positive effects in the future, given that a rate of this. So my call to the Government will be for a liquidator to rest cut, to put massively more on renewable energy production and to enable one to take out the value creation that results from increased investment in petroleum research and technology development in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1239	The debate has given many homage to the petroleum industry and the research it carries out. It's nice. But the logical flaw that is in wanting the industry well and cutting the appropriations to make it easier for the industry to feel good has not been met by the government parties. The Council of State is right in that this is a matter of priority. I can do that myself very well. I have my own private budget and must give priority every day. As an educated social economist, I know very well what it's all about using scarce resources in the best possible way. But precisely because it is about using scarce resources in the best possible way, a priority should be given properly. Saving it is not a matter of prioritizing it properly. If we get to 1 pst. increased oil extraction, and that gives us NOK 300 billion, is actually a few hundred million extra dollars in investment annually to get it worth the money. This is not about prioritizing the way the Government does, but about facilitating an industry in the future. I believe that after this debate there is every reason to fear the petroleum industry in the future when the government manages to have a logic that cuts petroleum research is the same as being offensive in this area. It's not being offensive in my world. But what is also worth taking along, especially since the illusionist in SV was involved in this debate, is that it is in our interest – in everyone’s interest – to take care of the Norwegian petroleum industry, because it is a fact that energy is needed. It is a fact that if capital does not go to Norway, it goes to other parts of the world, with fewer emission requirements and with less focus on technology development. That makes us lose income, but just shift the emissions. Without revenues, we will also be less equipped to bet on the renewable energy that we all agree on. Actually, I should have listened to the Workers' Party and not listened to SV's voice in the petroleum debate. It worked very well in the first two rounds we had. But when the representative Thorkildsen pulls out Plan B and uses it as a witness of truth, it's very selective. The axis of Plan B is very good. With regard to the sea windmill plotting, the state has said that it is not realistic to believe that it can happen. When you look at the state governance that Plan B advocates in the case of StatoilHydro, it's pure socialism. That's why SV embraces it. But the plan will be no more than illusions. When one cannot see the consequences of their own decisions, I can really understand that the Workers' Party was most comfortable in today's first two debates, where SV was not involved. I fully agree with the Nordtun representative that we should be careful to talk negatively about the industry in relation to the recruitment. But it is nevertheless worth pointing out that it is the government parties themselves who speak negatively, and do not want people to be recruited into the petroleum industry. Unfortunately, it is a bit too continuous for the entire effort on research and development by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1252	I think I have to start with the last thing that Solvik-Olsen's representative now brought up, where he warned against creating pessimistic moods in the petroleum industry. If I have not written correctly what was said by the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I think today's strongest statement came from there. It was said — without prejudice to just quote — that there is every reason to fear the future of the petroleum industry in Norway. It is clear that it is perhaps a very clear message to the young people who could imagine a future in that industry. I guess that's also something to bring with it what's being said from this pulpit. If one takes into account the large picture of capture, storage and climate challenges and in particular the broad petroleum policy, too many, many, many billions of dollars are researched annually in Norway. Industry and industry are too much of this. We also spend a lot of public money developing new technologies. I see that today's debate ends with the difference between being for or against research being 50 million. kr in the budget for 2009. I will not underestimate the importance of resource use in public budgets. But I do not agree that it is what determines whether one is for or against research, whether one is for or against increased extraction in Norwegian fields, whether one is for or against further development of the petroleum industry. I believe, as I said in my main post, that the sum of the government parties now doing is formidable in terms of facilitating a development also for the petroleum industry in the future, not least in order to put in place a policy and a regime in the field of capture and storage that is going to be extremely important for the same industry in a few years' time, given the demands that will then be made. That's my second point. My third point is that no matter how one formulates itself, no matter how one chooses the input to debates like this, one does not escape the fact that one hears in all the speeches from the opposition, where all the time has more money, cannot be explained in any other way than that there are slightly different demands and slightly different references in terms of prioritising public money use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1261	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1275	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have one up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1284	When Stortinget dealt with the attitude of the employment immigration message, Innst. S. No 292 for 2007-2008, a majority stated that: ‘The majority consider it important that higher education workers can access the Norwegian labour market more easily’. That was a general remark. Then some representatives from the Right in a representative proposal have made this concrete in particular. four points: ‘1. The Government is asking for prior approval of publicly recognised universities and research institutions so that researchers/specialists can start their work while the Directorate of Foreign Affairs is dealing with the matter. [[UDI]] 2nd@item: inlistbox The Government is asked to put in place a rapid track system for pre-authorised research institutions and that this can be done as a pilot project in force from 2009. 3rd@item: inlistbox The Government is asking for the introduction of an electronic application system allowing it to apply for a renewed stay over the Internet. 4th@item: inlistbox The government is asking for proposals for a national strategy to recruit people from abroad with very high qualifications and students at doctoral level.’ It is an overall committee that agrees with the intention of the proposals. As I started with, this is in line with what the majority said about the communication on labour immigration. In a letter to the Committee, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion stated that he also supported the intention of the proposal. So here's an area of broad political consensus. It is desirable to recruit more people with higher education to the Norwegian labour market, and it is particularly important to recruit people to our educational institutions and research communities. So the question is, how do we do this? As the Council of State points out in a letter to the Committee, this will require some regulatory changes, and for this reason it may take some time. But this is also a work that is in progress. The Ministry stresses in a letter to us that this is a work they are doing. So I feel reasonably confident that this is a process that we are doing, that will lead to a good result. It is important that Norwegian universities and colleges in particular, as well as other research communities and institutes, have close contacts with foreign research communities and foreign experts, and that they can exchange skills in the form of persons. So putting in place a code that makes it easier to get especially researchers, people with high skills, to Norwegian educational institutions, and also the fact that Norwegian researchers can leave, is necessary and important to stimulate the different environments. Then the matter has a perspective that goes beyond the research environments themselves, beyond researchers. This also applies to other workers, educated workers who are not directly required to work towards research institutions, universities and higher education institutions. So it's important that we see this in a slightly broader perspective. And that's what the department is doing. So I feel reasonably comfortable with the situation that we're in and the work that's going on. We're going to have a new code, probably a supplementary code in relation to the current situation. So there's an overall committee that's behind the comment. But let me make it clear that the minority wanted to make their own decisions to speed up the process. But I think it's just in the area of disagreement – how fast can this go, and is there a need for us in the Storting to make concrete decisions to speed up the process? We don't think so. We believe that this matter goes as fast as it can, so I am satisfied with what we have received from the department. I would also like to pay tribute to the Right for having raised this matter, so that we have received this debate and this round, not least in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1318	I must thank you for the nice words of my committee colleague. It's not that often it comes from SV to the right. But it is good that there is agreement on the principles behind this matter. I'm not going to repeat them for the audiences who are in the room now, but just stress that in a global world and in a global labour market, where developments are going very fast, sometimes it's also a point that home policy is moving fast. That's maybe where it crystallizes a small difference between the Right Party and the Government Party in this case. Because it kind of doesn't always have to be positive if you don't get anything in place. I would like to stress that for the Right, we cannot see any reason why the measures we are proposing cannot be implemented immediately. In other words, there is no reason to wait. It is vital for Norway to be able to provide highly skilled labour. It is crucial for Norway and for Norwegian enterprises, not least in the difficult situation we are currently facing, that highly skilled labour is provided. It is essential for Norwegian research institutions to do so, and to do so without unnecessary red tape and forms and customs and clothing. Then, on behalf of the Right and the Left, I would like to promote the proposals contained in the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1329	The representative of the Red Isaac has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1332	Norway needs foreign labour. Last February's figures show that there were just under 100,000 valid work permits in this country. Not many of them belong to researchers and specialists. The proposal to facilitate entry into the Norwegian labour market for researchers and specialists is therefore very good. It is right for the proposers to point out that this is the labour force that Norway needs. Despite the fact that we have a solidarity welfare society with small differences, it is also true that Norway is not necessarily the first choice for a foreigner with high education and competence. Now we also see a decline in given work permits. After a steady increase over several years, last year it was given 3 pst. fewer initial permits than in 2007. But it has to be seen, of course, in the context of the difficult economic times we are now going through. Norway has a specialist quota for recruiting skills from non-EU countries. This allowance is of 5000 persons. Norway is not in a position to fill this quota in the near future. The requirements for this permit are too rigid and square, and companies should be given a much greater say in determining the kind of competence needed to be defined as a specialist or specialist. There is a need to take strong action to attract the good heads. We must work to remove stumbling blocks and promote Norway as an attractive country to work in if we are to win the struggle for labour, which is more likely to go to countries like England or Canada. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has been the driving force behind legislative changes and regulations in the field of labour migration. That is why, in the presentation of the Single European Act on labour immigration, we included the proposal to implement the measures from 1 January 2009. However, with regard to the proposal from the Right in this round, we have chosen to see the realities in our eyes. We're already a good piece into 2009. You had to start earlier if you had to finish earlier. Unfortunately, the government didn't, and then it gets as it gets. We refer to the Council of State's statement in the letter to the Committee on the progress made in drafting legislative and regulatory proposals, and why it is not appropriate to set up testing schemes only for the group of researchers and specialists now. However, we note that until access is introduced for workers to start working before they are authorised, the Council of State will instruct the Foreign Affairs Directorate to give priority to these types of work permits. That's good. With regard to the proposal for a national strategy to recruit people with a high level of competence and students from abroad, we were involved in promoting a similar proposal together with the Right and Left in the St.meld position. No 18 for 2007-2008 on labour immigration. The Christian People's Party is still in favour of that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1349	When the Committee examined St.meld. No 18 years ago, everyone in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, agreed that higher education workers should be able to access the Norwegian labour market more easily. The growth of international companies and the globalisation of the economy have resulted in a more global labour market. Norway is often produced as a popular country for so-called happinesses and others who want to work in a country other than where they are nationals. That's just partly true. Norway also competes with many other countries for the most skilled workforce, and often we lose. Much has been done in recent years to simplify labour migration. The Bondevik II government implemented a number of measures, and the red-green government has also facilitated increased labour migration to Norway. This has been necessary and correct, but the Left believes that more needs to be done to attract researchers and highly educated workers, often referred to as specialists. The proposal we are discussing today contains good measures in this direction. The application process for a stay in Norway is not very fast. Combined with the fact that universities and research institutions themselves know best who they need to employ, it is strange that it should not be possible for them to employ a foreign employee while the application process is under way. I am pleased that there are now regulations for the new law on foreigners that might open up this, but it would have been even better if some of the measures had been implemented before all the regulations of the law were completed. The left will therefore support the proposals from the Right. Finally, I would like to comment on the need for an electronic application system. I cannot be clear enough that it is now high time to set up an electronic processing system in the foreign administration. I am recording that the Foreign Affairs Directorate is developing a new electronic processing system. That's very good, but that's also the answer we got when we demanded further over a year ago. I therefore hope this system can be put in place soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1360	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1363	As one of the rapporteurs, I think it is a good thing to take the floor in the debate. We have a situation in Norway today where we are actually able to attract quite a number of foreign doctoral students. Almost the entire growth in the number of doctoral students is foreigners, and it is partly because it is attractive for foreigners to come to Norway and take the doctorate here, because compared to many other countries we pay doctoral students relatively well. The problem is that when the period is over, they disappear. Like most other European countries, we have a great need to attract skilled labour, especially researchers, for years to come. It is estimated that in the EU alone there will be a need for 700 000–800 000 new researchers in the years to come, because very many researchers will become pensioners in the next few years. A foreign researcher to come to Norway must today, through an application process that takes between seven and eight months. During that period, the foreign researcher does not get a personal number, cannot actually sign a mobile subscription or create an account, and is therefore treated very poorly, while Norway is trying to send a message that we need your workforce, we need your competence. At NTNU it is a very good research environment for memory biology that is totally dependent on foreign researchers. At the University of Oslo, there are also many different faculties that need foreign researchers. These aren't unique stories. They are struggling to attract foreign researchers, because researchers know that coming to Norway and research needs to be done through a very large paper mill. Then it turned out, when we started to investigate the matter a little bit more, that there was actually a quick track for athletes in the UDI. All credit to athletes, that's great, but we think it's very strange that it should not be possible for researchers who have the competence of Norway to take advantage of the same fast track, with the prompt handling of applications. Then we also know that for the institutions that employ these foreign researchers, there are major problems in the period of waiting for an answer to the application, because researchers cannot travel abroad while the application is being processed. This means that if you are going to an international research conference, you cannot attend, simply because if you are going to leave the country, all that is involved in the application process must be restarted. It's really just to make it clear that this is an urgent matter, that we are promoting this proposal. I think it is good that the government agrees with us in the intentions, and I hope that the legislation that is now being discussed will be put in place in a very short time. But it's an urgent matter, because we need to recruit researchers now, and it's starting to rush a lot to some of the environments that depend on recruiting researchers over the year in order to maintain their professional environments. Therefore, I had hoped that more than the Left would like to support our proposals today, but I note that the government parties here also talk more about how important this is, and do not want to do anything about it in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1378	I just want to make Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide aware that this is keeping the government going. There are some processes in progress that require some of the legislation to be amended and adjusted, etc., so I expect this to go quite quickly, and that we will have to make changes to the legislation quite quickly, so that these matters will move faster in the future. I understand that you need to mark and profile yourself etc., but the matter as such there is a broad consensus about, and it will probably be as quickly solved in the way we add up, as it would be with the Right adding up here. Then I registered that Torbjørn Røe Isaksen used the term 'customs and clothes' about the proceedings, about those who run and deal with matters. I don't want it to stand after this debate that we perceive it as a lot of nonsense and rags, because I don't think it is. I think it's a pretty serious, real and thorough work that's being done, based on the legislation that's in place. So one comment at the end. These kinds of debates are easily influenced by slogans: ‘We need to have access to the best minds’, etc. I don't know if I think it's like slogans considered something very good. Clearly, we want people to come to Norway. We want us to have such good and exciting environments in Norway that people will come here and work in these environments, that we have strong research environments, as Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide mentioned, at NTNU, that we have good mathematical environments at the University of Oslo, and in Bergen we have other good environments, and we want these research environments to be so good that people want to get there and be part of them. That is what we want. But instead of using slogans like 'We're going to get the best heads' etc., we're going to have to train our own workforce in the future, that's where we have to put the emphasis. The good scientists in this country must basically create ourselves. We can't do what we do in the United States, import them from China and other countries. We have to create them ourselves. We have to have good research environments, we have to have enthusiastic researchers, we have to have resources that make these environments evolve, and we have to create these new researchers ourselves. It has to be there, it has to be the basis of everything we're doing. And then we want others, from other environments, to come here and enrich these Norwegian environments. But to say that we're going to get the best heads here, gets a little too eloquent for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1387	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2460]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1403	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1412	Last fall we had some unfortunate episodes around on some asylum receptions. There were some conflicts between different groups that almost caused a little fear in Norwegian society. That is unfortunate, and that is not the way we want it to be at our reception. I feel absolutely certain that the best way to counteract the kind of unfortunate situations is for those who work in reception facilities to have the best possible skills. I do not feel confident that the situation today is such that we have managed to develop a good enough competence. There are many reasons why we are unable to have a stable and high level of competence around asylum recipients. First of all, there have been major fluctuations in the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway. We have a rule that requires us to adapt the capacity to the number of applications. That means that we get a fluctuation in capacity, and when the capacity fluctuates, it also means that people with skills can get away. They're over. And once again we need to increase capacity, the competence is not readily available. So we're in a situation where we adapt the capacity to the number of asylum seekers, and then we easily lose good competence. And that's a problem. We're going to take that seriously. I understand that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on this proposal from the Right. It's very interesting that we now have two important issues where there is broad political consensus. In this case, the Progress Party has its own comment, and they will certainly explain their proposal. But there is broad political agreement, minus the Progress Party, on what is contained in this proposal from the Right. Being concerned with strengthening the skills of employees is very important. And it can happen in many ways. This can be done by general strengthening, and then the option outlined by the Right in this proposal is to develop receptions where employees have special competence for specific groups. This we think is good. But there's nothing new. Because we already have that kind of reception today. We have more receptions specializing in specific groups. We think that's good, and that's right. But here's the question of expanding this and having a more conscious approach to it. And that's an almost collective committee, minus the Progress Party, agree on. I would also like to draw attention to the letter from the Council of State, where he states that this could be a way of strengthening the overall competence. Then I see a reception that has a special competence, as a resource for others to receive in an area. It may thus contribute to raising the overall competence of the receiving sector. So this is something we think we should go on with. Moving on with that type of reception is a continuation of a strategy and a scheme that we already have. Then I want to finish by saying that the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway is not surprising. It's basically a result of the situation around the world. Today, more than 40 million people are defined as refugees, and some of them, somewhere between 5,000 and 15 000 – it's a little dependent on what years we're talking about – come to Norway and apply for asylum, shouldn't be surprising. Therefore, it is important that we have a good preparedness, and that those who are going to work with these people who are coming have good competence, just to prevent unnecessary conflicts between people who live in reception for a period of time and a community. So the proposal to strengthen competence, to focus on specific receptions with special competence, so the majority of the committee thinks is a proper strategy, and I think we'll continue what's already going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1429	Although the rapporteur, Mr Reikham, is trying to say that there is an insignificant part of the committee which does not agree with the majority vote, it is therefore that the largest party on the civil side is not a member of the proposal supported by the majority of the committee. And that's simply because job no. one in relation to Norwegian foreign policy in general and Norwegian asylum policy is specifically about limiting immigration and, in particular, the number of asylum arrivals in Norway. The Progress Party fears that by building an even stronger structure around asylum recipients, there is a need to identify a reception structure at a time when we actually have record asylum arrivals, and that this makes it more difficult to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Norway. We all know how these processes work in other contexts. A capacity is being built up, and the day capacity becomes permanent and the need is not as great as it is, a lot of policy decisions can be justified to maintain, for example, this. a continued high level of asylum arrival in Norway. That is why the Progress Party does not see this as a sensible proposal. We do not want the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, and I refer to our proposal. I expect the rest of the asylum and refugee policy to come back to us in other debates during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1438	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1441	It is very pleasant, very good and very important that there is a broad consensus in the committee on this proposal. After all, it is almost necessary to give credit to committee colleagues in order to deal with the proposal properly and properly. I will not comment on why the proposal is important, but I would just like to add a few comments to the post of the representative of the Progress Party. Let me just take a parallel. While the Higher Road Policy for Better, Wider, More and Safer Roads will lead to fewer road accidents, it does not mean that we should have a massive reduction in the number of emergency receptions in Norway. It's a little bit of a parallel right over here. Although it is an objective for more legitimate asylum seekers to be granted their applications and fewer groundless asylum seekers, it does not mean that we should permanently build up the skills we have to receive people. Then I have to say that I have obviously misunderstood something in the policy of the Progress Party, because I thought there were two things that were important for the Progress Party: limiting immigration and the number of asylum seekers coming to Norway, and also integration. Starting early on with integration is incredibly crucial. And one of the ways we can do that is to make sure that we have a competence device that can grab hold of people who come from, for example. conflict areas, which have experienced suffering and atrocities that we in this room and others in Norway can't even imagine. That is why there is also good integration policy to bet on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1450	The representatives of the Right propose to establish their own receptions of competence with specialisation in relevant fields of asylum. Single minor asylum seekers, women at risk and violence, return problems, monitoring, qualification and settlement are cited as examples of current disciplines. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee believes that competence is the key to developing and improving the way in which reception work is organised, and further calls on the majority department to give priority to the work on various competences enhancement measures, including specialisation in relevant disciplines. The Council of State has stated that he is very much in favour of the proposal. So is the Christian People's Party. We have previously proposed setting up our own women's reception centres. Norway has taken on obligations to accept asylum seekers in Norway. They have the right to a safe place to live with a reasonable standard. It is not acceptable for people to be beaten up or subjected to sexual harassment. On a written question from the signed black state council, a little hesitant, but open to the possibility of establishing a clean woman's reception. I want to remind the Council of State of the important work. In this case, particularly vulnerable women may be given the opportunity to choose whether to stay there while their application is being processed. This is not the only way to get safe reception. I am fully aware that it alone will not solve the challenge of men harassing women. It is also necessary to provide for higher manning, better safety practices and education on Norwegian women’s vision and gender equality. Women must be protected from unwanted attention from men — separate bathrooms and toilets for men and women are a matter of course — and women must be able to have their own public spaces. What is disappointing, but unfortunately not surprising, is that the Progress Party once again puts itself on the sideline of this debate. Perhaps it is not so strange when, year after year, in the state budget, they cut the billion-dollar class into the field of asylum, immigration and integration. It's probably one of the few times the Progress Party actually doesn't have extra money to spend, when it's about citizens who don't have voting rights here in the country. The Party considers that closed reception is preferable in the field of asylum. If money is to be spent on something, it's to send people out. Own reception for children aged 15 to 18 has been established in Norway. Child protection has taken care of them under the age of 15. I ask myself, is it the policy of the Advance Party that these children too should preferably be behind locked doors in closed sections? Now most asylum seekers come from war-torn countries. The largest groups currently come from Iraq, Somalia, Afghanistan and Russia – not exactly countries that we associate with peace and deportability. It also means that although some do not have protection needs and therefore have to be returned, there is actually a high percentage who will have to stay in the country. So even if we agree with the Progress Party that the procedure has to go down, so that asylum seekers can be returned quickly without a genuine need for protection, we can therefore have two thoughts in our head at the same time. It's only positive if the reception system can function optimally and promote integration, so that we provide those who need protection in our country, with the best possible start to life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1472	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1475	Just a small comment about Amundsen's articles. I have some problems understanding the logic of what he says. I accept and understand that the Progress Party wants to significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers here to the country. I have no problem understanding that. What really surprises me is that they don't see that no matter how many people want to come to Norway as asylum seekers, there will always be someone working with those who come to Norway, that is, we need some reception places. And then I find it extremely difficult to understand that investing in skills among those who work there, facilitating that they have the most knowledge to do a good job, would be wrong. It surprises me, and logically it is quite incomprehensible, no matter what the objectives of immigration policy are. So a little comment on what's going on building up and building down capacity. If there is something we have succeeded in doing, some would say – and some would say that we have been unhappy with it – it is adjusting capacity according to the number of people coming to Norway. If there's something we've done, it's building down when demand has been low, and then there's been problems building up fast enough again when demand has increased. That's one of the problems we're facing right now. So a fundamental question is, how quickly should we adapt to any fluctuations in the number of people coming to Norway? But that is how far we have managed to reduce capacity when the number of people coming to Norway has fallen. So at least that's not an argument for not building up competences among those who work on asylum recipients, and perhaps specialising in asylum recipients against specific groups. So it's not easy. The roads of politicians are often unanswerable – and here they are very unanswerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1490	I feel the need to comment on more articles that have been held in this debate. Firstly, when we discuss the use of resources in the field of asylum. In other words, what we need to spend more money on, and which the Progress Party has proposed on a number of occasions, is to introduce closed asylum recipients, to reduce the processing time – it's about resource use, and it's about systems – and not least to be more effective in broadcasting. Here, more resources need to be deployed, given today's failed immigration policy. However, in a situation where Norway experiences extremely high asylum seekers, building up an infrastructure, a higher permanent capacity, is, in the view of the Progress Party, a little wise. In fact, it is also said that we accept the very high number of asylum seekers we have today, and at least that will not be the case with the Progress Party. Then the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen says that this must also be seen in the context of integration policy. Then I assume that the Right has changed its view in relation to when it is right to implement integration measures. For so far, the Right has agreed with the Progress Party's assessment that asylum seekers should not be given priority in the integration work. It is when people have stayed in Norway that integration work should start over. And in a situation where 60 pst. of those seeking asylum, even within today’s liberal regime, there is obviously a waste of resources to implement integration measures in relation to them. But it is possible that Røe Isaksen with his post reports a new course for Right Policy. In any case, there is a change in relation to that previously expressed by the Right. Then the representative Tørersdal, as the Christian People's Party often does when we discuss these matters, refers to the Progress Party's alternative state budget, where it is quite right that we cut down on integration measures. It really is not because we are going to spend less on integrating every single person who is going to live in Norway, but it is because we require the impact of the Advance Party's alternative foreign policy, which we have also dealt with here in Stortinget, where we propose a strong tightening in the field of immigration. Of course, this will mean a decrease in the number of people living in Norway, which in turn will mean a lower cost in this area. It's not because we're not going to have effective and good integration measures for the people who're going to stay here, but we're going to reduce the number. This is pretty simple math.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1518	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1527	The Municipal Committee has examined proposals from the Landfill Representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Ib Thomsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Ulf Leirstein, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and Vigdis Giltun, Document No. 8:12. The document makes the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for a pilot scheme that converts one or more asylum recipients into closed asylum recipients, including the necessary legislative changes.’ The proposers point out that according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees – UNHCR – Norway is the world’s largest asylum seeker. It should be noted that asylum-seekers are being set up, there can be a great deal of pressure on the local population. Proposalers also refer to a number of violence episodes in which asylum recipients have been involved. Furthermore, the closed reception of asylum in Norway wishes. Closed reception will mainly be for immigrants residing illegally in Norway and for asylum seekers without a known identity. The document refers to the fact that the EU has opened up the detention of asylum seekers for up to 18 months in the new European Immigration Pact and in the draft EU Return Directive, which was the subject of first reading in the European Parliament on 18 June 2008. The proposers believe that Norway should follow developments in the rest of Europe. In a letter from the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen to the Committee, it is stated that the Council of State perceives that the proposers believe that a closed reception for asylum is a reception where residents are not free to move outside the reception. Furthermore, it states that such reception will in reality involve the detention of those who reside there and that detention can only take place when there is a legal basis. In the reply letter, the Council of State further points out that Norway has rules in the Foreign Affairs Act that both allow for the imprisonment of non-residents who do not provide their identity and for the imprisonment of non-residents who do not implement a decision. The Legal Committee, in NOU 2004: 20, New Foreign Law, has considered proposing that all asylum seekers be required to remain in closed reception for a period after arrival, in order to give the foreign authorities the best possible preconditions for examining the applications and implementing any refusals quickly. The committee concluded that such an action could lead to many asylum seekers demanding the legality of this detention trial before a court. A system of closed receptions could therefore be a great burden to the courts. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, demonstrate in the vote that Norwegian prison rules in this type of case appear to be largely in line with international agreements. Some European countries have so-called closed reception for asylum seekers. At these receptions there is an access control in the form of entry and withdrawal. However, asylum seekers are free to leave these receptions. The Committee believes that we should conduct a humane, solidarity and legally safe policy on refugees and asylum. Norway has a clear moral obligation to take responsibility for people in need of protection. Our legislation shall be based on international legal principles expressed by the Human Rights and the Refugee Convention. It is – and should be – legitimate to apply for asylum in another country. The majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, considers that closed reception will restrict the freedom of movement of asylum seekers and violate fundamental legal principles. Against this background, I would recommend that the majority vote be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1551	In the case of closed-end asylum recipients, we have experienced something as rare as a development, a development in which one has gone from arguing against the proposals of the Progress Party to introduce a closed-end asylum recipients system to argue that the proposal is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, other international obligations, etc. On a number of occasions in the current period, we have had debates in this Chamber with, in particular, the previous Council of State for this area, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and where every time we have discussed closed receptions of asylum, it has become a debate on Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The letter of the Council of State makes it quite clear – and it has also been repeated by the case-rapporteur today – that it is not that closed asylum recipients are in conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights. Of course, this is quite natural, because closed receptions are practised in very many European countries. And the Progress Party's alternative foreign law, which we presented last year, does not even go as far as what the EU is doing in its well-known return directive. So, naturally, there is nothing in international conventions that prevents the introduction of a closed asylum system. The argument used now is that this is contrary to so-called fundamental legal principles – without any further clarification, either by the case-rapporteur or in other contexts. What fundamental principles of law are involved, I wonder a lot. The European Convention on Human Rights or other international conventions do not stand in the way, and nothing about the establishment of closed asylum recipients would be contrary to fundamental legal principles – in the light of the proposals the Progress Party has made. Legality, predictability and justice are precisely the basis for the internalisation of asylum seekers in Norway, in accordance with clear principles laid down in the law. Then you also use a completely different argument. It is said that OK, this is based on current international obligations, but there will be such a heavy burden on the courts. It is – with respect to reporting – one of the thinnest arguments I have ever heard. If that is the reason for not introducing a closed asylum system, as many other European countries have done, I think it is absolutely essential that the other parties in the Grand Duchy should sit down and reconsider their position in this area. To just take a completely random example from my local, Harstad Official Journal, Wednesday, March 11. Then there was a nice suggestion about how nice and nice it is with asylum reception in Harstad. And it seems to work pretty well – they should have. But if you read in a little fact box that's a little bit down the page, you can see pretty interesting numbers. In the course of the year, the number of asylum seekers in the EU increased by about a quarter of the EU average. a six-month period was 195 persons. Of these, 14 have received a residence permit, two have travelled on a voluntary basis, one has been expelled from prison — and 32 have ‘disappeared’. Where are these people? Where do they keep houses? What do they live by? This is the reality of Norwegian asylum policy. The problem is that we do not control the people who come to Norway and seek asylum. Yes, we have to take care of those who have a genuine need for protection – we have to meet those obligations. But there are a lot of people who abuse the system. And when there are twice as many people disappearing out of Harstad's reception in six months as there are people staying, it says a little bit about the problems we're facing here. The fact that the proposal would involve excessive costs for Norwegian courts is a relatively weak argument. Then I demand that we also set the set-off: what does it cost Norway to have tens of thousands of illegal immigrants – who are therefore illegal on Norwegian soil, who have no legitimate results, and who necessarily have to engage in illegal activities in order to finance their existence here? What is the cost of that? I believe that this cost is much higher than the fact that you put something more into Norwegian courts. I refer to the proposal No of the Progress Party. 2, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Our proposal No. 1 goes away.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1570	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1573	I want to withdraw the lines to the previous debate about investing in strengthening the competence of the receptions. I record that in this case the Progress Party proposes closed receipts. I would like to believe that even in closed reception there will be a need to invest in the enhanced skills of employees – building them up professionally in order to do a good job. So to this proposal: Retorically, the Progress Party – in this case Amundsen – uses a debate technique where one says that it is quite common in Europe with closed receptions. In this case, the Progress Party mentions two countries: Poland and Austria, which have established this type of reception. I'm sorry, but I don't know enough about how it's established in Poland. I'm counting on the Progress Party to know all about it. The same might apply to Austria. But I think they should end up with that kind of rhetoric and the kind of debate technique, where a mere generalises without going into what a closed asylum-seeker in Poland or a closed asylum-seeker in Austria. There is nothing wrong with saying about Poland, but I don't want to say that they are a good example for Norway in terms of legal certainty and how to establish our systems. I would not like to say without saying that Poland is the country that I regard as a leading star in terms of legal certainty, in relation to democracy and freedom of expression. There's nothing wrong with saying about Poland. It is the very technique of debate — to point out and say that it is, without going into the concept of ‘closed reception of asylum’ in Poland or Austria — and that is what I think it is important to come up with. We haven't changed our reasoning. We still believe that it will be wrong – insofar as Per-Willy Amundsen believes it – to internalise people who come to Norway and have a wish, and that is to apply for asylum, in addition to what is in today's legislation, in today's foreign law, that people can be punished or internalised if they do certain things. In addition to that, I do not want to give a legal basis for people who come into legal proceedings, namely to apply for asylum, to be told that they should be interned – that we should put them in, and then we should deal with the application. It's going to be wrong to have such a starting point. It is possible that this does not conflict with declarations of human rights, etc., but it is at least contrary to Norwegian law today. If we're going to set up such a system, we're going to have to give legal support for it, and that's the legal basis that we're using, that is. That's not what we're going to have. I am pleased that it is a large majority not to go into the policy that Amundsen outlined, namely that people who initially come into legal proceedings should be interned. I am therefore pleased that a large majority say that we should not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1586	The left considers that the proposal to internalise asylum seekers in closed receptions is poor for several reasons. Firstly, it is based on a notion that society must be protected from asylum seekers and that those who arrive without identity documents are initially dangerous. But most of them aren't. Communicating that asylum seekers are something society needs to protect itself from, build up under prejudices and fear of foreign culture. It should not be more than a trip into an online debate forum until a person understands that many in this country are afraid of asylum seekers. The proposal we have for treatment does not help to correct this. The left considers that the proposal on closed asylum recipients is also poor for another reason, because it is hardly criminal. As the Left understands the proposal, it must contribute to less trouble and violence on the asylum recipients. The proposers present a mass battle at the Nordbybräten asylum reception in Våler in Østfold in the summer of 2008. The document says that injured and bleeding people were stunned after being beaten with hammers, iron rods and other percussion weapons. It goes on to say: ‘This is not the first time the reception of asylum is in the media’s searchlight, nor is the Nordbybrätt not the only reception for asylum in Eastfold that has brought violence and insecurity.’ No one, I suppose, denies that there are violent incidents on asylum recipients. But the left cannot best believe that the situation will improve if asylum seekers are refused to move outside the reception itself. Where appropriate, the idea must be that violence is kept within the reception and does not plague ‘common’ citizens. In some cases, there is reason to fear the mental health of asylum seekers after spending their application time in prison. Left hardly believes it will lead to a safer society in the long term. It is important to combat crime among asylum seekers. The left, however, believes that this proposal is going to be the wrong medicine. Rather, the left recommends speeding up the process and transport of those who are being rejected, closer follow-up and increased use of watchkeeping in reception where there are special problems. Asylum seekers shall be treated with respect, but they shall also meet requirements. It's a better medicine than treating anyone who comes without identity papers, like dangerous criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1602	Norway has a clear obligation to take responsibility for people in need of protection. Our legislation shall be based on international legal principles expressed by the Human Rights and the Refugee Convention. I note with satisfaction that the Committee believes that we should conduct a humane, solidarity and legally safe policy on refugees and asylum. That means that it is, and should be, legitimate to seek asylum in another country. I perceive the proposal of the representatives so that with closed receptions, reception is meant where the residents are not free to move outside the reception. This will involve the detention of those who reside there, and detention can only take place when there is a legal basis. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a representative and that the majority believes that closed reception will restrict the freedom of movement of asylum seekers and violate fundamental legal principles. Norwegian prison rules on these types of cases appear to be largely in line with international agreements and principles in other European countries. As the majority of the Committee refers to, some European countries have so-called closed transit receptions for asylum seekers. On such receipt there is access control in the form of entry and withdrawal. However, as I know, and as my letter to the Committee also states, asylum seekers are free to leave these receptions. In the Foreign Affairs Act, we have rules that allow for imprisonment for up to 12 weeks for a non-resident who does not provide his identity — in exceptional cases even longer. For a foreigner who fails to implement a decision, imprisonment may take up to six weeks. In the new Foreign Affairs Act, these cases are extended to 12 weeks — and in exceptional cases longer. Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights requires the detention of liberty to be governed by law and requires that it is not arbitrary. Access is granted to the seizure or detention of a person in order to prevent the person from entering the country without authorisation or by a person against whom measures are taken for the purpose of dispatch or extradition. I would like to stress that there is a need for a wide range of instruments for the effective handling of asylum cases, and for the implementation of the return of persons without legal residence. Work is now under way on a number of measures and a number of new interventions are being considered in this area. However, a test scheme with closed asylum recipients would be a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1615	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1618	Legality is a matter of course; it is also clear and clear in the proposal by the Progress Party in this matter. The rules governing the use of closed asylum facilities should, of course, be laid down by law. There are two requirements that need to be met after the EMC in order to implement closed asylum facilities. One is the legality of the fact that there is legal proceedings on the basis of which they are based. The second is a time limit, that you can't be placed indefinitely. So this is not the subject of debate. However, when using court proceedings as arguments – that this becomes too expensive, that a little more resources have to be spent on the courts to introduce closed asylum recipients – has it been assessed against the enormous costs that it means for Norwegian society to have tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who necessarily feed on illegal ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1627	I perceive that the proposal is about being able to have closed asylum facilities for asylum seekers. In the event that people have been denied their asylum application and have not received a humanitarian residence, there is therefore a risk of avoidance of access to the law to avoid freedom. So the side of the case that the representative Amundsen is now talking about, it's a law firm to deal with. But, as I see it, as a general rule, those who come to Norway and seek asylum should sit in a closed reception. That's a completely different situation. On the applicant’s side, we have the opportunity to prison if we know that a person avoids identity clarification by e.g. fingertips are ground – a very common example. But it is in a completely different category to say that anyone seeking asylum in Norway should be deprived of freedom. And of course, it would be a great burden on the judiciary if all of these things were to be tested individually. We have a lot more reason to use the legal system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1635	Of course, it is the case that there are clearly defined conditions for the use of closed asylum facilities. This was well explained by the Progress Party in its proposal for an alternative foreign law, in which we first raised three issues – first of all, people coming to Norway with unknown identity, second, persons considered to be a danger or otherwise posing a threat, and third, persons to be returned. These are the three main groups, but it will include most, all the time over 90 pst. has unknown identity. So the Progress Party has a further impact field here. However, what the Council of State did not respond to is why it is used as an argument that the costs of the courts are too high by introducing legal remedies in connection with closed receptions, and why it is not assessed against the cost of having tens of thousands of illegal immigrants in Norway who must — very many of them, at least — live on criminal acts. When you say that the use of resources here is too large, why haven't you made that assessment? And: is the Council of State willing to make such an assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1642	It's a misunderstanding to think that as the Council of State – and I think I can say it on behalf of the parties that are behind the rejection of the proposal – I have the cost argument as the main argument. It's drawn out as an example. The main argument is, at least for the parties that I represent in the government, the principle approach to the general assumption that anyone who comes to Norway and seeks asylum may be required to be in closed reception. It is the principle approach to it and the intention of Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights that is the starting point for us to oppose it. In addition, as a practical consequence of the representatives’ proposals, we have mentioned that if one were to have legal certainty in order to choose such a system, it would require a heavy burden on the judiciary. But it's a misunderstanding if the representative thinks it's the main argument. Or another way: I'm pretty sure that the majority would reject the proposal even if the cost of the exact legal part would not be very large. There's something else that's the main argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1649	Both in the letter of reply to the Committee and in the speech to the Council of State, he mentioned that he knew that there was an organised closed reception in Europe, but that it was about reception where one had access controls, so that one was registered and registered when one was allowed to leave the reception. Then my question becomes, just to make it clear: does the Council of State know that there is any reception in Europe at all that has the kind of prison proposed here by the Progress Party, that is to say, reception that is not allowed to leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1656	With the necessary reservations that I do not dare to say that I have a full overview of all receptions in Europe, the answer to the question is: No, I do not know any such receptions, and that is why it is a central part of the argument, both my and the representative Tøresdals, to go against the proposal for a representative that we are now dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1661	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1666	I see the need for a brief summary. I would like to make it quite clear, on behalf of the majority of the committee, that it was not appropriate for the majority of the committee to support this proposal, regardless of whether a judgment was necessary to imprison asylum seekers. The main argument, which stands entirely alone, is that we do not want to detain those seeking asylum in Norway. We don't think it's integration-promoting, and we don't think it's the right way to accept those who seek asylum. It shall be perfectly legitimate to seek asylum in Norway and to live voluntarily in reception as one can leave if one so wishes. Let's make that clear in this room. That's our main argument. However, since there have been concerns about the legality of international agreements and human rights perspectives, the Committee has discussed whether this is lawful or not. And in this regard, it has been established that that kind of imprisonment is only lawful if there is a judgment. One of them will cost a lot of money, and that's where this gets into the picture. I just have to say that the Progress Party wants a system, and they want the courts to be imposed on this system – so they want it to be legal for asylum seekers to be imprisoned. We do not want that – and the costs of the courts are a small part of that argument. I repeat that I recommend that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1677	If, unfortunately, the cost argument is not the most important one in the opposition of the majority in this Chamber to closed asylum recipients, I ask for a real reason further. For the only thing that stands in the form of a comment is that it is shown to be contrary to fundamental principles of law. We just made it clear that it doesn't. It does not conflict with international conventions. If we change the law, so that it is actually allowed to use closed asylum facilities in Norway, at least it is not contrary to basic legal principles. So here it is about designing a system, as the Progress Party has proposed on a number of occasions, last in connection with our alternative foreign law, where we meet the requirements of the EMC and other conventions in relation to the period – that is, how long you can use closed asylum recipients – and in relation to court proceedings. Yes, it will mean a little more resource use, but that's not what's crucial here. Then you try to spread uncertainty around the situation in Europe. European countries have very different policies in this area. The Committee was recently visited in France, where we were informed of one type of policy pursued in Europe – President Sarkozy had tightened up considerably in the field of immigration and, in principle, closed asylum facilities. This practice is very different, so it is also reflected in the EU Return Directive, which initially opens up the possibility to place people, internal people, for up to two years. These are the provisions of the EU Return Directive. The proposal of the Progress Party for our alternative foreign law was one and a half years. We believe that a case should have been processed long before that time. Poland operates for one year. And yes, they're closed in the sense that you don't have free entrance and exit. However, this practice is very different from that of different European countries. Norway is among the most liberal. The Committee may need a seminar on Europe's various policies in this area. I note, at least, that there is no willingness to address the enormous challenges we face, with people disappearing from asylum recipients, and the growing problem of illegal immigrants, of whom there are now tens of thousands, and who continue to grow, especially with today's totally misguided asylum policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1686	It is a pedagogical challenge to explain to the Progress Party what the majority believes is contrary to fundamental legal principles. But to put it plainly and simply, it's a common legal belief that you must have done something wrong before you go to prison. So the majority of the committee does not see that it is wrong to seek asylum in Norway; we do not see that it is right to detain those who come to Norway and seek protection. As fundamental as it is the legal perception of ordinary people; one must have done something wrong to be thrown into prison; in addition, it is a detention that it is difficult to explain and defend. It is at the bottom that asylum applications should be allowed, they should be accepted, and they should be taken seriously. In addition, this short-term debate will end here in the United Kingdom without the Progress Party being able to tell which countries in Europe have prison-like detention of asylum seekers. Neither the Council of State nor I know any relationship from Europe that is the way the proposal of the Progress Party outlines, namely with closed reception, where there is no possibility of going in and out of reception. It is called prison — at least it is perceived as prison. In the end, I just want to say, we don't want the prison of people seeking protection in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1695	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1698	With limited speaking time, it is clear that there are limited opportunities to explain European asylum policy. But I can recommend the representative to read the study of the Advance Party in this area. There is a great deal of substance about this, and there is a lot of interesting things going on in Europe, as it is, therefore, that most European countries are now tightening up asylum policy. So to this, as it is said, asylum seekers have initially done nothing wrong and therefore no closed asylum can be used. I don't know how the representative Tørresdal assesses it, but when you come to Norway and abuse the institution of asylum, as most people today unfortunately do, without needing legal protection, I don't think it's a fair and fair procedure, not least in view of those people who actually need protection. So you have to consider whether it is that anyone seeking asylum in Norway is innocent or not. The point is that today we have a system that obviously doesn't work, and we have asylum seekers that are some of the highest in the world. That's the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1707	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox A number of proposals have now been submitted from the Odelstinget on the agenda. [[Fotation, see page 2461]] There is full opportunity to ask for the floor for each proposal, which is a matter of its own. But to save time, the president's intention is to read just the matter's number a little bit slowly, nothing more. Does anyone object to that? - It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1729	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1747	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1765	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2461]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1784	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1802	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1820	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1838	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1856	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1874	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1892	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1910	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1928	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1946	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2463]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1954	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1961	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the issue of a ‘rich energy state’, which deals with the expected power consumption and production in Norway, the availability of different energy technologies and an overall commitment to the development of new energy sources.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1980	I voted incorrectly – I had to vote in favour of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1985	In that case, the votes of 57 votes in favour of the Committee's position and 49 votes in favour of the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the vote is supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e1992	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2015	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for an oil and gas notification concerning the Government’s further plans for the development of our oil and gas resources.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2034	A representative abstained from voting, and that is mandatory. In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2043	During the debate, Mr Røe Isaksen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2083	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2108	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. That is proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the hall. The President would point out that the minority proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote lapses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2139	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Bent Höie on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government is asked to draw up during 2010 a plan for the implementation of deadlines for universal design of existing measures and construction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2158	There is a vote on the proposal by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 17 March 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether it is possible to impose competence requirements and a minimum requirement for small construction enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2177	There is a vote on the proposal by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the State budget for 2010 with proposals for the follow-up to the Construction Cost Programme through the establishment of a permanent R & D centre for the construction, construction and property industries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2196	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to review specific laws affecting the processing of construction products with a view to the widest possible simplification of legislation and procedures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2216	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the necessary legislative changes to enable municipalities to take final decisions in planning and building matters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2235	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the necessary legislative changes to involve the state’s right of objection in planning and construction matters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2254	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget where the municipal autonomy is reintroduced by the establishment of a purchasing centre or the extension of existing purchasing centres.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2273	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget where municipal autonomy is reintroduced as regards measures in the so-called beach zone or 100 metres belt.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2292	A vote is taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left of Odelstinget on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the universal design of existing buildings, installations and outdoor areas from 1 January 2020.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2311	A vote is taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left of Odelstinget on 17 March 2009: ‘The Government requests that the possibility of relying on a disproportionate burden be removed after the deadlines for each category of construction, site, outdoors, transport and ICT have been set and reached. Public-sector measures do not initially have the right to rely on a disproportionate burden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2330	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr André N. Skjelstad, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget, meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to launch a work on a national standardisation strategy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2349	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 17 March 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a revision of the concept use in the new building law so that it becomes more appropriate and consistent with the concept use incorporated in industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2366	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 17 March 2009: «The Government asks the Government to provide regulations based on § 31-4 of the Planning and Building Act on the access of municipalities to provide for the protection, refurbishment and maintenance of conservation buildings. The regulation shall preferably be implemented at the same time as the law.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal. The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to support the proposal, while the Progress Party is expected to vote against. This is an assumption, and no one has protested against that assumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-24.ana.ud70e2402	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the floor in section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
