ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e30	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Berit Brørby from 12 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e48	Synnoses Fire Klemetrud is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal; it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e66	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e73	Seven weeks into the new year, we must be able to say that it has been an eventful start to the international arena – at good and bad. Angry in Congo continues, in the Middle East there are again weapons and acts of violence that speak, and in Sri Lanka the acts of war are raging. The truth is one of the first to be sacrificed in a war. Direct manipulation or exclusion of journalists can give a false or distorted picture of the situation. But also the lack of interest or coverage of a conflict can make the image being presented little opaque to reality. But we can still establish that there are wars and crises, it is the civilians who ask for the greatest burdens and the greatest losses. All normal dishes disappear. Protecting yourself and hers, getting food and houses overshadowing everything else. The elected one breeds the power, it's called. Extremism has a grotto where hope and hope for the future are gone. As long as the weapons speak, they lose moderate cancers. Negotiate solutions cannot be resolved where fear and distrust prevail. The elections in Israel confirm that there is a peaceful solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories. Once again, there are those who play in fear and rhetoric about thicker methods, which win out. Now that the weapons have ceased, it must be allowed to ask what has been achieved with the acts of war on Gaza Strip. Very little, if anything, the answer must be. Thousands were killed or maimed. Gaza was bombing health, infrastructure, houses and homes were destroyed. Punishing the civilian population collectively, taking away what little they had, can't give Grobots for peace. Israel's tactics were flawed. I don't think, unfortunately, that Israel's legitimate desire for a safer future for its inhabitants is closer now to what happened on Gaza Strip than it was before the war took place. I am absolutely sure that the acts of war have increased extremism and fanaticism on the Palestinian side, and, unfortunately, the elections in Israel indicate that the same debt there. There have been claims of violation of a number of international rules and conventions. There have also been allegations about the use of illegal weapons. I think we would all have thought that these claims were examined more carefully. With the humanitarian suffering that we now see in Gaza, it is important to have a rapid reconstruction and to make society function again. Here Norway plays an important role as leader of the gherkin group. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Foreign Minister on the important work that Norway is going to do here on behalf of the international community. If Gaza is to be able to function normally again in the long term, if those who live there are to have hope for the future again, the economy in the area will have a chance to develop, it is decisive that the situation is brought to normal, and a premise that the boundaries towards the outside world are being opened up, for example. natural economic developments may occur. It is important that the international community now put pressure on Israel to open its borders and create as normal a situation as possible in the area. Norway has had a policy that has meant that we should talk to all the parties involved. I see that this is now an attitude that is getting greater and greater international uprising, even the Progress Party's foreign policy spokesperson is now taking the floor to involve Hamas in the further peace negotiations. This is a realization that is joyous, and I'm absolutely sure it's decisive, whether we're going to move forward towards a more peaceful development, that all parties are taken on board. The international financial crisis is increasing in strength. She rams everyone after a while. What started out as a banking crisis in the United States is spreading like rings in the water. We're in the middle of what many claim is the world's largest economic setback of over 100 years. Although the effects are different, the real economic effects now spread to all parts of the world. Every day, there are reports of setbacks, cancellations and financial problems. A few days ago, the figure showed a decline in Chinese exports of more than 17 pst. for January. For the first time in over 30 years, there is a setback in the Chinese economy. Millions of Chinese have lost their jobs and are now returning disillusioned to rural areas. Reduced demand has led to a dramatic decline in commodity prices. This has again drastically changed the economy in many countries. Mass unemployment and heavily reduced government finances are the result. Many countries, including our big neighbour in the East, may have major economic difficulties if this situation persists. We now know little about what will result from the recession, but just as the economic upturn over the last 10 to 15 years has changed the international balance of power between countries, there is every reason to believe that the decline will do the same. Nor do we know what the economic downturn will mean for stability internally in different countries. Governments have everything to do with this crisis, and the danger of social unrest is great where the economic downturn results in real nudity, which, unfortunately, is a reality many places. Once again, the crisis has confirmed that we who live on this planet are more and more cohesive and dependent on each other. National decisions cannot alone protect one from what is happening internationally. The financial crisis must be met with coordinated international action. In the same way as the global climate challenges, the financial crisis once again shows the need for a functioning international framework. A country alone cannot solve the problems that have arisen, but neither can it protect itself from the lack of action. I share the foreign minister's concern that the major countries will try to resolve their own crises in trade barriers or by protectionist measures. I'm pretty sure this might prolong the crisis, not reduce it. Instead, this should be a golden opportunity to put in place stricter international regulations and good cooperation forums. I repeat: the international problems must be resolved internationally jointly. The financial crisis has led to the collapse of economic liberalism. True to the fact that the economy works best when he is completely free and without regulation, he has got a serious shot for the bow. On the contrary, the countries with the least regulation and control are the countries that are becoming the hardest framework today, and countries that have strict financial legislation and control become less frames than the others. Everything suggests that the way a person organizes society, is also crucial for how a thing can handle the crisis when it frames. That is why I want to take advantage of this opportunity to advertise the Norwegian model. All indications suggest that we are more equipped to meet the challenges than many other countries. Our model, with a large public sector and a well-developed social security network, makes us less vulnerable than many other countries. Not least, it makes those of us who have to be frame less vulnerable. We have organized society so that both health care and schooling are organised and funded by the public, so that one does not lose these services even if one becomes unemployed, as is the case in many countries. Among the positive things that have happened this year, the presidential change in the United States is the most important thing. Now, of course, it remains to be seen what real policy follows, but everything suggests that the United States, with its new president, will once again play an active and completely different and more constructive role than they have done in recent years. Where the previous president said that those who are not with us are against us, the new president says that he will stretch out a hand. Where the formerly defined country as the axis of evil and preaching total isolation opens up the new one for respect and dialogue. Where the former arrested people without law and law, created Guantanamo, broke fundamental human rights and even used torture under the heels, the new one has said that the United States should once again become the foremost defender of universal human rights. By shutting down Guantanamo and transferring the prisoners to the ordinary judiciary, the new president removes a disgrace in the United States, which in turn can contrive the United States to criticise internationally. Once again, the United States can become a driver. The shift in the United States has given us a new opportunity to solve many of the international questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e108	The Party's government partner Socialist Left Party has repeatedly proposed boycott of Israeli goods, but the Workers' Party has on this issue demonstrated firmness and rejected in cash boycott as a current instrument. In the last few days, however, we have received signals that the Workers' Party will nevertheless support boycotts by Israel, which includes: was launched by the party team in Trondheim. Has the Workers' Party now changed its position in this important matter? Is the representative Akssen comfortable with the fact that the party no longer shows firmness and predictability on this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e115	It's obvious that the Progress Party is biting for lines when they come up with this line. Of course, in this area, the Labour Party has not signalled or in any other way advocated a new policy. There are a lot of people in the Labour Party who are frustrated, and -- I don't know what expression I'm going to use -- disappointed in the developments that have been taking place in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the last few months. There are a lot of people who are frustrated by what has happened on Gaza Strip. There are a lot of people who are committed in the hope of getting a better situation for the people who live there. In this context, there are many who are in favour of a stronger pressure on Israel to comply with international rules in this area. This is a wish I support. It has not been indicated at any time by any leading people in the Labour Party that the use of boikot is an alternative means of reaching such a pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e122	The Foreign Minister touched on the financial crisis and how it affects Iceland, in his presentation. I think the will to help a neighboring country in distress is great among the parties on the Stortinget, but we could wish that the government parties were somewhat more open to discuss with the Stortinget how this can be done most appropriately. We note with interest that several of the government partners of the Workers' Party have been on private-diplomatic tours to our troubled neighbouring country during the past few weeks. The Central Party has signalled the desire for close Norwegian-Icelandic cooperation to save Iceland from the EU, as party leader Navarsete formulated it. Last but not least, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who discussed Norwegian-Icelandic currency cooperation with his Icelandic colleague in connection with the 10th anniversary of the Icelandic sister party. She has stated herself that the idea is not discussed in the government, and I do not remember that Halvorsen has asked Stortinget for advice in the matter. But how does the Workers' Party approach such an idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e129	There is no doubt that the situation in Iceland is both chaotic and tragic. It already has our government shift on Iceland, perhaps as the first country after the financial crisis rolled in across the country. I think it is important that we in Norway do what we can to support Iceland and help them with their financial problems. So has Norway, and Norway has received very positive feedback from Iceland in the period that has passed since the crisis. When it comes to Iceland, it is an independent country that must take its own initiatives towards Norway that they think are necessary in relation to their needs. When it comes to their relationship with the EU, it is primarily an Icelandic matter that they themselves have to decide. But I think it's important that Norway is ready to set up when Iceland asks us to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e136	I think the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee cleared well in place the view of boycott. I expect that he can also demand that it is appropriate for the Workers' Party to support a line that is aimed at punishing economic organisations that support Israel. The question I have for the representative Aksen is also about the Middle East. It's about Iran, which he didn't mention. In the last few days we have seen the following headlines from this country: January 27: A man hangs in the city of Kazeroun. Same day: Four people hung in the town of Mashad. 30 January: Women executed Thursday morning. January 31: Two men hanged in the city of Shiraz. February 1: Two men hanged in Bojnord, Northern Iran. 5 February: Iran’s Supreme Court accepts punishment for blindness by placing acid in the eyes of a man. February 10th: Three men hanged in western Iran. These messages that we all doubt about call for action. What kind of action does the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee think Norway can do in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e147	First of all, I would also like to express that I share the concerns expressed by Dagfinn Højbrätten. There is no doubt that Iran is one of the worst regimes we have in the world, where people are being prosecuted arbitrarily, but also for reasons that in other countries do not have that consequence. Then, of course, we all feel a lack of tools in such a situation. What I'm absolutely sure is that trying to isolate a society like Iran, trying to ignore them, ignoring them, ignoring them from all contexts, won't have an effect that will reduce the number of activities we see here. On the contrary, I hope and believe that with a new signal from the United States, a thing can do to bring Iran into the international community in a way that makes them feel apathy when they are confronted with the kind of facts that are being presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e154	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e158	The Minister for Foreign Affairs made a solid statement. It was balanced and drew up many important themes and conflicts. If there is something we miss, it was a deeper analysis of Europe’s energy challenges, especially in the aftermath of the Russia–Ukraine conflict, and what is Norway’s future challenges as a credible energy supplier and contributing to stability in Europe. We share the hopes of what President Obama can contribute to in the international arena. We need fresh air, and we need a clear American commitment to important values. One such value is free trade. We are pleased that the Foreign Minister is very much talking about the world not needing more protectionism. He points out negative features in American politics – and we agree with the heart. But it is not that Norway is the world champion of free trade, and the party, perhaps the main architect of Norwegian protectionism, sits well with the Minister of Foreign Affairs in government. The struggle for human rights is another value that requires a strong commitment. Norway wants a place in the UN Human Rights Council – our voice is needed, says the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is certain is that there is a need for a clear voice, for now we see almost a massive attack on freedom of expression. If Norway with the red-green government will be the clear voice, it remains to be seen. At least at home, the government was able to root it vigorously when it came to freedom of speech in the blasphemy debate. Norway shall be a bridge builder in the Human Rights Council, says the Government. It's a challenge to be clear and stand for important principles and at the same time build bridges. The scope of action that exists for compromise on human rights is minimal. This is why we are following Norway's work in this area with great stress. The Durban II Conference on Racism is now being prepared. In the last preparatory meeting at the end of January, it was proposed to remove the reference to the number of deaths during the Holocaust, as it would appear to be controversial. Primarily, Holocaust is still a topic, but under Iran's leadership this too is challenged. Only one of the 191 UN member states is repeatedly criticized in the text proposal – not surprisingly, it is Israel. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is a significant job to be done here for Norway. Our challenge is whether the government is prepared to be as clear and principled as necessary, or will one avoid conflict, as one too often has to do in the United Nations. Almost everyone agrees that reform is needed in the United Nations. The Prime Minister himself has made a strong commitment to the work. In 2006, a proposal was submitted in the General Assembly of South Africa on behalf of China and the G77. The aim was to delay and block many of the reform proposals made by the Secretary-General. Most European countries, the United States and Japan voted against. Norway resigned. When it came to that, Norway might not be so concerned with UN reform anyway. Or was it the bridge builder’s role to be cared for? In another part of the United Nations family, UNDP, a new government was elected in January this year at the same time as the end of the war on the Gaza Strip, and Iran was rewarded with the prestige of being a new president of one of the largest UN organizations – Iran, which I think most will think, is responsible for the tragedy in Gaza. A clear signal from Norway had been to vote against Iran, but it was more in line with Norway’s bridge builder role to abstain during the vote. Does the Government believe that it was best to act this way, instead of sending a strong signal to Iran that the kind of actions this country is responsible for in several areas will not be tolerated? Was the government afraid to go out with Iran and Iran's friends? So, in the matter of UN reform, the Norwegian government chose not to take a decision. Do we see a pattern? Is the role of bridge builders at the expense of upholding important principles? Is immortality a guiding principle for Norway in sensitive UN votes? Being clear at home is good, and it is largely the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but more importantly, it is clearly recognised in action. We're being accused of winging about Gaza. What's interesting is that if you like FrPs or maybe SVs – what I know – come with a little more shade and content than what gets on the front page of the newspaper, you get very quickly accused of moving away from the original positions. We have been trying throughout the conflict to deliver a coherent message. We've tried to find out that there are at least two parties with a suffering civilian population, and we've tried to think both in the short term and in the long term. As far as dialogue with Hamas is concerned, I took it up in the Storting near two years ago and pointed out the requirements to be met by Hamas. This is still our policy. I have allowed myself to say that I hope that we can get into a situation where dialogue is possible, but it depends on Hamas leaving its position regarding Israel's existence and stopping terror and warfare. We're accused of winging about UNRWA. Here it must be allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. One is the long-term role of UNRWA for the Palestinian refugees in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, the West Bank and Gaza, and the other is the humanitarian situation in Gaza. When I want to bet on UNRWA as a humanitarian actor in Gaza now, it is because it is pointless not to use those present and can provide help. At the same time, I believe there is reason to discuss the role of UNRWA as an emergency service provider. Even I experienced Palestinians who came to UNRWA's representatives and asked for help, but who were refused because they were not refugees, as the UNRWA mandate demands. In short term, there may be a need for UNRWA to have a more open approach to the whole population of Gaza. Israel is criticized in strong order for using disproportionate attacks against Gaza. This is a demanding matter. What's proportionally correct? What would have been an acceptable defense on the part of Israel? It becomes particularly demanding to defend itself against an enemy who, according to John Holmes, the head of the UN's humanitarian work, uses civilian targets in a cynical manner. According to an Italian newspaper, the civilians were forced by Hamas to be in houses that came under attack from Israel. Was it so that Hamas did not do everything in their power to save its own civilian population? Was it, in fact, that Hamas used civilians to gain sympathy for its own cause? And how do you defend yourself against such an enemy, an enemy who does not shun any means? The lack of a two-state solution and Israeli control over the West Bank is a major problem. But is it not at least as big a problem that groups like Hamas, along with supporters like Iran, will remove the State of Israel? Do you think that that attitude will change when Israel renounces land? When Hamas talks about the end of the occupation, Hamas believes that all the land that Israel owns today is occupied. Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan is important and, fortunately, we have been very much in agreement with the Storting, at least in recent times, but the work must also produce results. We're going to enjoy progress in education and health, but other issues are worrying. Here, Norway, NATO, the United Nations and those involved must have a continuous discussion on instruments, the dimensioning of military forces and the impact of measures. In this process, it is important to listen to those who have served in different capacities in the country and draw on their experience. Although we must realize that we cannot get as far as we want in areas such as good governance, corruption and human rights in a short time, it is important that there is movement – and movement in the right direction. We need to be a partner for the government of Afghanistan. We must contribute to Afghanisation. We need to build local capacity on both civil and military sides, but we also need to make demands and expectations. With regard to the military part of the Afghanistan mission, there is a problem that different countries come with different limitations. Norway is not one of the worst, but these restrictions prevent progress and create unrest and uncertainty. Coordination, joint management and common engagement rules are as important on the military as on the civil side. If we are to have the hope of success in Afghanistan, every country has to give up some peculiarities and settle down. Finally, I would like to say that the war on Sri Lanka is disturbing us all. We feel that both parties have not adequately taken into account the suffering of the civilian population. If the government of Colombo wins a military victory, we don't think it's the end of terror. We hope to use this opportunity to extend a hand to the Tamil population and to help prevent the inflating of a new armed conflict. A great responsibility here rests on the government of Colombo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e195	Morten Höglund has been on Gaza Strip and studied the sequences of the acts of war. That is what I thought he should be commended for. When he was there, he came up with a new signal and now takes the floor that there should be conversations with Hamas. In his article he used the word "dialog". That I feel is an important adjustment to reality. Second time, Morten Højlund has been called upon to adjust the Progress Party’s policy – and for innovation. Unfortunately, however, Morten Höglund does not seem to have had a significant impact on the policy in this area, even in the case of Hamas and Gaza, in its own party. Therefore, my question as to whether it is difficult to be a foreign policy spokesperson in a party where all foreign policy is always determined by the domestic policy agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e202	The answer is simple – no. It is pleasant and easy to be a foreign policy spokesman in the Progress Party. What I answered in an interview with the NRK in Gaza was whether it was a dilemma that no more parties had international contact with Hamas, which de facto controls what is happening in Gaza. I openly admit that it's a dilemma. I said that I hope we can get into a situation where it can change, but I talked about in the long term, and I have always tried to stress that certain requirements need to be met. We've been trustworthy about that. I explained in my article how we took this up in the hall here two years ago. We have continuously pointed out these requirements. We must have the hope that organisations like Hamas will also change. We have seen cases in the past where organisations that have been blacklisted have adopted more moderate policy positions. There is no Hamas today, but we hope that that turn of reality can also happen in Hamas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e211	On 13 January this year, Siv Jensen was in duel with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. She then stressed that UNRWA, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestinian Refugees, was part of the problem on the Gaza Strip and not the solution, and she repeated the proposal of the Progress Party in their alternative state budget to cut the aid by 50 pst. So Morten Höglund, commendable enough, even appeared on the Gaza Strip with a slightly different view and underlined that UNRWA was the lifeline for the people of the Gaza Strip, and that there was definitely no time and space for this type of cut now. That was – ironically, perhaps – about the same answer that the Foreign Minister had given to Siv Jensen on 13 January. After this, Siv Jensen shows up again and rejects in an interview with Dagbladet that the Progress Party has turned around. Then my question about Morten Höglund can bring clarity to the little confusion that has arisen about the view of the Progress Party regarding Norwegian support for UNRWA.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e216	In the case of UNRWA, I also explained in my post that they operate far more locations than in Gaza. We have to be able to think both in the short term and in the long term. When we present a budget option developed during the autumn, we try to think: what is, from our point of view, a more non-profit-making approach to dealing with these challenges? Then comes this humanitarian disaster. To chase UNRWA out of Gaza now, or cut out the lifeline that is absolutely right for large sections of the population in Gaza, will be irresponsible. That's our position. We have supported the proposals made by the Government regarding humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza. We have supported the proposals to put pressure on the Israeli Government to open up humanitarian supplies. We have to use the actors that are there, and then, if a normal situation should establish, we have to discuss what will be the future organisation of UNRWA and the UN work in Gaza and among Palestinian refugees in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e225	Let me begin by giving tribute to the representative of Høglund and the Progress Party to nuance his message on the Middle East and the suffering of the civilian population on both sides, as the representative of Höglund now did. I think that's right and good. But in the case of the Progress Party's line in relation to the support to the Palestinian territories in general and UNRWA in particular, the representative Höglund has not, with what he has said here today, nor in this line change, brought sinful clarity. You have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. You have to think in the short term and in the long term. However, when we present our draft budget before Christmas and there is an urgent need after Christmas, the short-term idea must be to remedy the situation with funds in the short term. The policy of the Progress Party would lead to if the Progress Party had ruled this country, is that the country had had far fewer opportunities to help through UNRWA in the acute situation that occurred just after Christmas. It's short-term thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e232	In the case of various humanitarian disasters and situations that have arisen — in Afghanistan in the past, tsunami, etc. – the Progress Party has always tried to show accountability and to support it under any assistance measures that may be necessary. I think we have also shown that in our work in Stortinget. As I also mentioned here today, the role of UNRWA in relation to the Palestinian refugees goes far beyond the work in Gaza. It's a much more extensive work. We've tried, and here we can certainly do a better job, through our budgetary position to attract up the fundamental challenges of UNRWA – there are increasing numbers of refugees generated after the 1948 events – and look at this whole institution. We also record that internationally, not least in the US Congress, it is an emerging debate on these things. We have been invited to that debate. We have made concrete proposals. Since this war began, we have tried to answer it in a way that faces the short-term humanitarian consequences of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e242	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very comprehensive presentation. Its length is understandable when talking about both concrete and current problems as well as general trends and assumptions. Now it is only a few weeks before the Stortinget gets the message about the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy for treatment. The reason therefore waits for an assessment of some of the important challenges we face in the years to come, and to which we have a hope will be elaborated and clarified in the communication. Like others in the Committee, I also give some lectures on foreign policy around the country. The interest in such themes is at present high. These are various acute crises, but also a world situation that many people experience insecure and threatening situations. The age of globalisation is fast and references are changing faster than many are able to change. A frequent question at such meetings is whether we are going back into a ‘cold war’. My answer is usually no, but I also want to add that social and mutual dependence has developed so rapidly that isolation and isolation are both difficult and undesirable. At the same time, it is obvious that we are facing new challenges. These too often jump out of opposition to interest that motivates the desire for power and influence. The question is therefore: what are the lines of conflict, and how are we going to deal with them to best care for our Norwegian interests? Some themes are obvious. The fight for fossil energy sources, access to natural resources or benefits through trade and economic relations regimes are known factors and will remain high on the agenda. Iraq without oil would probably have been a completely different story. The Congo without minerals and gemstones would have been easier to crack. The attempt to turn the Doha Round into a development round is recognition of trade as an important factor in the development of poor countries. And not least, WTO negotiations have shown us a new willingness and ability of many countries to organise themselves in groups, either from a community of interest or geographically. Regional and subregional groupings act with increasing strength on behalf of the Member States. ECOWAS and SADEC within African Union, or Shanghai Cooperation Organization in addition to ASEAN, are some examples. As well as in WTO cooperation as in the UN, there will soon be more G groups than you can keep track of. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is also a step forward, because it reflects, on the one hand, a fairer world society. The struggle for values is the line of conflict that worries us the most. The value base for further development of international law or other international conventions is increasingly being challenged. As a small but extroverted country in the West, Norway is accustomed to building traditional values in our own cultural heritage. It's not as obvious anymore. New groupings of countries form an alternative majority, not least where human rights and international law are debated and further developed. This is particularly the case in parts of the UN system. We agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that these institutions lose their legitimacy and effectiveness if one does not provide sufficient representativity. But at the same time, there is a clear challenge for us both for solving concrete issues and not least for maintaining international law and standards at a level we can defend. It concerns the relationship between countries, but not least how one acknowledges the value of the individual. This can be a fundamental challenge for our foreign policy, with clear implications for both security and alliances. Here, I suppose, I'm far in touch with a theme in which I share some of the views of the previous speakers. So here's two relationships that have to be combined. In as far as possible countries contribute to bridge construction between groups or regions, there will be a main contribution to mitigating or preventing conflicts. In this way, Norway may have a special task. It is because of our experience and reputation in different parts of the world, but it is also relevant in our own neighbourhood with an active neighbourhood policy in relation to Russia. The bridge builder's role leads to contact and community with close or distant regimes that in part profess values or practice them in ways that we stand completely alien. Of course, they will also affect us based on their assumptions. Then it is important to be clear what we stand for, and to stand so that it seems. Our own membership in the Western cultural community, in the European Community and in the transatlantic security cooperation is essential in this respect. We believe that the safety of bridge builders would have been better if Norway were a full member of the European family. The right agrees that the country's safety web has several components, and we closely follow the debate on the relative importance of the Nordic region, Europe and NATO. However, as long as we are not politically able to conduct a neutral and analytical debate on the country’s relationship with the EU, it will be difficult to make an objective assessment of the overall security picture. Therefore, the right is highly sceptical in trying to change the existing security policy. We believe Nordic security cooperation is positive, but not as an alternative to parts of NATO. On the other hand, it would have been a strength if we could act like a Nordic block in NATO. Intermediate solutions in relation to these alternative models could create uncertainty about the division of responsibilities in a given difficult situation. Nordic cooperation on civil society security, on the other hand, is an interesting area where we seem to be taking exciting initiatives these days. It is therefore essential to develop a policy that balances the bridge construction and neighbourhood policy with a clear and solid anchoring where we belong and share the value base. If we tip too far towards the anchoring, we become self-centered and thus poorer, and neglect a co-responsibility to solve global challenges. On the other hand, when we tilt too far the other way, we leave something naively open to be exploited by others, and security weakens. It is in this context that we wish that the Foreign Minister's statement had been more profound and given clearer answers to how this government will take care of the country's interests. The presentation attaches great importance to the change of President in the United States, and we agree with that. When there is so much time to mention what this replacement may mean, it is striking that no more attention is given to disarmament. We record a completely different emphasis on this important theme from among others. the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, Steinmeier. He believes disarmament will be one of the main issues of the Obama administration, and calls for someone to put disarmament and non-proliferation at the top of the international agenda. Because there's a lot of work to do here, among other things. follow-up to the START Agreement, ratification of the Test stop agreement and negotiations on stoppage in the production of fissile materials. Since last week, it has been known that Germany will take a number of initiatives through NATO towards both the United States and Russia. Although the parties in the Red-Green Government have a very different attitude towards NATO, we hope that this area is high on the Foreign Minister's agenda. We would like to hear his assessment of how Norway can also contribute to the progress of this difficult but important field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e265	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e269	I very much appreciated the last minute of Vallersnes' posts, where he took up disarmament and non-proliferation, and I fully share his views on it, including what he said about NATO. Now it's like last year's NATO Summit started working on a transatlantic charter, primarily in view of now in the spring, at the next summit, to arrive at a so-called Declaration on Alliance Security. The question is, will NATO take one step further, namely to open up the strategic concept? A unanimous committee has previously, just before Christmas, in connection with the examination of St.melding. No 27 for 2007-2008, said that then we must also discuss NATO's nuclear strategy. Does the Right and the Vallersnes say that if you open up the strategic concept, you also have to aim to use it for nuclear disarmament, in other words also to change NATO's nuclear strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e278	It will obviously not be possible to have a full and full debate on disarmament and the strategy for it without including the nuclear side. It's a natural part of that debate in NATO – it's obvious. We're going into those debates too fully, but at the same time we're a little concerned that some of the assumptions and positions might be shaped in different forums than when we're sitting around the table in NATO. I am thinking about the American side and that European policy is partly shaped around the table in the European Union. It concerns us in this case and makes us perhaps not as close to intervening with the prerequisites for future strategising as it would both Marit Nybakk and I would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e285	I fully share the analysis from the representative of Vallersnes: Norwegian interests are based on fossil energy sources. We're also part of the Western cultural community, which is based on international law. The question is, how can we contribute to these analyses in e.g.: Middle East. Right now, everyone is talking about Iran and the 30th anniversary of the Iranian revolution, but no one is talking about Mossadegh, which we are removing – when we first talk about the Western cultural circle. We're sending the granddaughter in to Teddy Roosevelt with two suitcases full of $1,000 seats. Three months later, the first and so far last truly elected president of Iran was removed. So I hear the Progress Party say Hamas can get better. It must be pointed out that they can be improved by talking to them. Does the Right support the Hamas line that the Government has led?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e294	We have stated on several occasions that we believe it is important to have contact with parties, also parties with which we do not share the value base, and, as in this case, where we take a sharp distance from the methods they operate with. However, contacts can take place at different levels. It is not necessarily a matter of formal contact, but one must have a contact network possibly via a third party. We've expressed that before, and we still recognize that. I also think it is interesting that the representative Jacobsen mentions Mossadegh and the early 1950s in Iran. It's probably exactly one year since I was standing here and having an interpellation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the history of the West in the Middle East, where exactly this was one of the main points. I still believe that, as a Western resource nation, we have a lot to pick up on going into history and learning a little bit about how to act, so that you get familiarity with parties you really don't share with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e301	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e304	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his statement, among other things. concerned the issue of the financial crisis that is rolling worldwide in these days. In October 2008, Alan Greenspan stood in the witness box. He was one of the world's most powerful economic actors and head of the U.S. Central Bank for nearly 20 years, and was to witness to Congress in October about the causes of today's financial crisis. Greenspan's conclusion was that for 40 years he had been based on an ideology that turned out to be flawed. The Foreign Minister's statement on Tuesday was based on some of the enormous challenges we face, with the financial crisis, the climate crisis and the poverty and food crisis. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for a good presentation and, in particular, for offering an important perspective in his speech, namely that the nations of the world are not powerless but have the opportunity to face the crisis if they have the political will to do so. Then it is essential that we define what kind of political will it is about. For many years, market solutions, privatisation and deregulation have been at the top of the agenda. Today's financial crisis shows that that policy has been misguided. The Minister of Foreign Affairs expresses great concern at the increase in protectionism and conditions such as those we saw in the 1930s. I share the concern that the world is going to experience a crisis that is getting even deeper than what we have seen now, and the possibility of trade wars and weakening international cooperation in trade policy. At the same time, it is also important to look with new eyes at parts of the trade policy that have been pursued in multilateral contexts. The greatest possible free trade in as many goods and services as possible is also not the answer to the crisis that so many countries now face. The solution to the financial crisis depends on international cooperation, but also on the ability of individual countries to raise their own production, get people to work and stabilise the economy. Here developing countries need opportunities to protect the construction of their own economy. Such recognition has led to the correct and important steps that Norway has taken in WTO service negotiations by drawing liberalisation requirements to developing countries. In Norway, we used a combination of trade and market mechanisms with a strong state and public governance over parts of the economy to create economic development. Developing countries must now have the same right to political space as today's industrialized countries had, and the right to protect industries as part of a national development strategy. The financial crisis has taught us that the answer to economic challenges is not ‘more market’. The challenge in the future will be to translate this recognition into practical policy. In Iceland, our neighbours have received a new government, and polls show that the red-green parties are ready to win the elections to be held in April. Norway is already helping to stabilise the situation in Iceland by making financial reserves available to Icelanders, and I also think it is positive that Norwegian teams have given signals that they will be responding to initiatives and want dialogue from the new Icelandic government. I noted that the representative Vallersnes was more sceptical about this, especially of the new Icelandic Finance Minister's desire to discuss further cooperation, for example. on the monetary question. It was just to be lacking that there was no such openness from the Norwegian side in the situation our brothers are today. Nordic cooperation is also on the agenda this week in defence context, where Thorvald Stoltenberg made 13 very interesting proposals for closer defence cooperation between the Nordic countries. Climate change and changes in international power create new security policy challenges, requiring innovation in Norway’s international cooperation and security policy. We are very positive about the new spirit of Nordic cooperation and that there is a debate in which there is room for vision and courage. We also have great sympathy for the direction in the visions that Stoltenberg has presented. Afghanistan is currently Norway's most extensive international commitment. Peaceful and democratic development in Afghanistan depends on our having both a humanitarian and a political strategy for what will happen in the future. Visadmiral Jan Reksten recently stated that he is critical of the way the military presence works, and calls for greater civil effort. It's a concern that SV share. After many years of international presence, acts of war in Afghanistan are increasing to an extent, and we have seen a worrying increase in the number of civilian deaths in the last year, both because of increased activities by the insurgents and an increase in, for example, the number of civilian deaths. U.S. Air Attack. There is no simple solution for Afghanistan. The only thing we know with certainty is that a strategy for peaceful development and a stable democracy must include broad participation. Dialogue and negotiations must include all parties and not be confined to the groups and parties we in the West had to share. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister mentions that groups on different sides of the conflict must be included in a national reconciliation process. This government has gone to the front internationally for inclusion and dialogue. Norway was one of the few countries that recognised the government with both Fatah and Hamas, a government that failed in part because of a lack of international support. The war in Gaza is due to many factors, but the crucial problem is Israel's occupation of Palestinian territories. The war in Gaza has led to an even more difficult process of reconciliation than before. The forces that want reconciliation and dialogue come out with loss when it is the logic of war that dominates. The choice in Israel this week is unfortunately another sign of it. We are pleased that it is being worked for an independent review of the acts of war. The aim must be to punish violations of international humanitarian law. In addition, the international community needs to make concrete demands related to the cessation of occupation, of housing policy and of the wall that currently shares Palestinian territories on the West Bank. The war in Gaza, in Sri Lanka and in Congo are some examples of us seeing a serious brutalization of warfare in various conflicts in the world, where the civilian population is directly affected by the acts of war, and where the access to information, such as us. seen in the war in Gaza, limited by refusing media access. A decisive cause for war is access to weapons. Norway has a code of arms exports to prevent exports to countries in war or to countries that violate fundamental human rights. Nevertheless, we see that Norwegian weapons and ammunition can end up in countries to which we ourselves do not export. SV wants to work actively to ensure the effective functioning of Norwegian arms export legislation, so that Norwegian weapons and ammunition are not used in countries to which we ourselves do not export directly. A number of humanitarian organisations have recently put forward concrete proposals on how this can be done, and it is important to address that debate in the future. Peace, poverty reduction and sustainable development are interdependent. Today, a new arms race can be driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism will be won with military power. Such a development will pave the way for the fight to resolve the poverty, food and climate crisis. US rocket shield plans in Eastern Europe have increased tensions between the United States and Russia, thus not contributing to a safer world. Rocket Shield Plans can lead to increased nuclear armaments and a new arms race. SV has constantly been working against US rocket shield plans and against plans to merge NATO rocket defense with the American rocket shield. The government's criticism of the rocket shield plans has influenced NATO's position. Now we also see that there are positive signals from the American team that plans need to be re-assessed in terms of both the wisdom of the plans and the practical feasibility. There are at all many signals that give rise to optimism about the work of disarmament, and here we both hope and believe that Norway can play an important role in the coming period. With this, I would once again like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and interesting presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e347	The Socialist Left Party has repeatedly raised the issue of boycott of Israeli goods, but has not brought with it either government or other parties on the Stortinget, as the representative Akssen confirmed earlier today. In the context of the conflict in Gaza, where the regime in Iran has provided Hamas with large numbers of weapons, ammunition and missiles, there is nothing from the SV about boycotting the terrorist regime in Iran. I also believe that the Socialist Left Party is familiar with the gross violations of human rights that are being exercised every day in the country, which the representative Højbräten has also been involved in earlier today. Would not a consequence of the SV's principle position be that a boycott of Iran is also being addressed and Norwegian activities in the country's oil sector are being abandoned?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e354	We have a strong commitment to the human rights situation in Iran. In the case of SV, there has been a strong focus on the situation of the Kurds. It is among those groups that are particularly vulnerable to human rights violations in Iran. It is not right, as the representative says, that SV has tried to bring the issue of boycott of Israel into government and massaging. SV's boycott claim has been to a consumer boycott, not a country to state boycott. That's an important difference. Our proposal has been about a way for ordinary consumers to show their opinions. You have to be very careful with boycott policy. Shutting down the opportunities for dialogue and contact with different societies and regimes that we don't like is generally a way to be very careful. In the case of Iran, blocking the possibility of contact and development would be an unwise policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e363	I was actually going to use the line to focus on Sri Lanka. Norway has a significant role in the process there, and high-ranking representatives of SV have been particularly prominent in this context. The question should really be whether one is facing the humanitarian disaster we are seeing now, the force of action seems to be relative to the rhetoric of the Government. But then the Lighthouse was inside and gave me a little visit about Iceland and the currency cooperation. Firstly, I would like to stress that we have been quite clear that we think Norway and the other Nordic countries should be shoulder to shoulder with Iceland in the difficult situation they are in. But does the representative Lysbakken really think it's okay that the country's finance minister, without consulting the government and without any kind of information to the Stortinget, takes up the kind of far-reaching proposals that a currency cooperation with Iceland is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e370	It is more likely that the Minister of Finance of Iceland has raised this issue with the Minister of Finance. It would be unnatural, I think, to refuse from the Norwegian team to discuss a question that the Icelanders are raising in the situation they are in now. Monetary cooperation is a major debate. It is a debate that has hardly begun in Norway. It's a debate that it's natural to start in Iceland if it's going to travel. Then it would be amazing if the Minister of Finance would refuse to discuss it. I don't think there is any need for government approval or co-operation to be open to discuss issues raised by Icelanders. If this were a Norwegian initiative, it would of course have been a different matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e378	On different occasions SV has marked its boycott line towards Israel and stood under large posters and tabs a few weeks ago where «Boikot Israel» was the slogan. Now I know a certain nuance in the representative Lysbakken's view of boycott. At a time when we have received quite a number of new orientations and spin operations from the red-green ones, I ask directly in the light that neither the Government, the Labour Party nor the LO support a boycott line, unless SV should now reconsider it, precisely from the representative Lightbakken recently said, that it is unwise not to take care of the channels and contacts that you have. Let me ask the specific question: does SV support the idea of an academic boycott, a cultural boycott of Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e383	It's not right that the shades I bring now are new, because we've always had a nuanced view of the mechanism of boycott. You have to be careful to put it into practice. In some situations it will be a proper tool; in other situations it will not be. There are also different types of boycott rates that you can apply. What SV has called for is a consumer boycott, not a state-of-the-state boycott – not a boycott that would lead to the disappearance of the absolutely necessary opportunities for dialogue and interaction with Israel that we must have. We stand firm on the call we have given, while we have raised some other types of sanctions, for example. an international arms embargo. However, it is necessary to choose measures that are accurate and that do not close the possibility of dialogue. That, I believe, is a rule that must underlie the instruments we choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e390	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e393	It is valuable, not least for a small country like Norway, that we are able to largely agree on guiding guidelines in foreign policy. That, I think, is essentially what this statement also contributes to, in the pact with a good tradition under changing governments. Let me first also stress that I am pleased that the northern regions are being maintained as a top priority bet area. There's a Christian People's Party and the Government on the whole line. With President Obama, we have been given clear signals of a positive renewal in American foreign policy. We welcome that in the Christian People's Party. It also means a lot to Norway, since the United States is Norway’s most important allies. Now that the US foreign policy is in the process of being renewed, active Norwegian diplomacy will be particularly important to help bring in perspectives that we from the Norwegian side seem to be important. Not least in the north, climate policy, disarmament, but also in areas such as the renewal of Afghanistan policy, the work on conflict resolution in the Middle East, and human rights are not set aside in the work on security against terrorism. The Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs put the emphasis this time on the situation in the Middle East after the Gaza War and the second on Norway's contribution to war and crisis-torn areas around the world. However, Norway’s work on human rights was given more limited space this time, except for certain assessments related to participation in the UN Human Rights Council. I want to concentrate on the comments on these points. I share most of the main lines in the Foreign Minister's description of the Middle East conflict and the Gaza war. The Minister for Foreign Affairs should be commended for being much more sober and balanced in the comments along the way than what I have registered from some others in the government parties. Nevertheless, there will be a simplification when the foreign minister puts the war in Gaza – between Israel and Hamas – in the context of the occupation. Israel withdrew four years ago from Gaza, but got thousands of rockets back as thanks. And between Israel and the Palestinians on the West Bank there was no war around New Year's, for Hamas does not rule. There was no rain of rockets from there either. So to the possibilities of a peace process. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has the right to see that the division on the Palestinian side means that the Palestinian authorities do not have enough power to negotiate a peace agreement. This is a problem that must be overcome if peacemaking is to succeed. In the case of a possible Palestinian assembly administration, I would particularly like to highlight a sentence in the statement: ‘Such a government must have a platform which meets the key criteria for international relations and confirms the basis for resumption of negotiations with Israel.’;» [[...]] That's true. That is why I fully agree when the Minister for Foreign Affairs puts into practice what it means to Hamas. Firstly, distance yourself from terrorism and the use of violence. Secondly, ‘respect for the agreements already concluded by the Palestinians’ with Israel. But I was surprised that the Minister of Foreign Affairs jumped over the third requirement of the United Nations and the other Middle East Quartet to Hamas: recognize Israel's right to exist as a state! Without Hamas’ ‘returning’ and accepting these three basic requirements, Hamas cannot become a partner for lasting peace. There will only be a tactical player who, under time-limited weapons rest, continues to carry – and agitate for – the objective of eradicating the State of Israel. Hamas' denial of Israel's right to life is a fundamental problem. It is also part of the ‘core of the matter’, although the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention it in his definition of the ‘core of the matter’. What can provide both Israelis and Palestinians with security and peace is not new rounds of war, but negotiating rounds resulting in a lasting peace agreement, as Israel achieved with Egypt in 1979 and with Jordan in 1994. With regard to Norway's contribution to war and crisis-torn areas around the world, the Christian People's Party is largely in agreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yes, we must show willingness to contribute to UN peace operations in Africa. It has been called for by the Christian People's Party, for example. in the case of Congo. It is good that the government is working on following up this. Yes, we need a renewal of the Afghanistan strategy. Norway has contributed — and must continue to contribute — to this. Increased emphasis on security and better living conditions for Afghans will show that they have something to gain from not supporting the Taliban. Increased emphasis on the deghanisation of military tasks and a functioning Afghan police force will give them greater ownership of their own security and reduce the Taliban's ability to say that the fight is between us and foreign intruders. The war on Sri Lanka has taken a desperate turn over the past few weeks, with the loss of hundreds of civilian lives. A recent U.N. spokesperson reported that a hospital in the Tamil areas had been attacked by class weapons. Independent media are not allowed access and news coverage is limited compared to the Gaza conflict. Relatively, the civilians are hit even stronger than in Gaza, but the commitment of politicians and the broad public and the media is almost absent. It's thought-provoking. Everything must now be done to prevent a bloodbath. In the Christian People's Party we have regularly been in contact with Tamils in Norway who ask us to help prevent such tragedy. The representative of Laila Davøy has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what Norway can do to ensure the safe exit of the war zone and the decent life of refugee camps. We need even more active follow-up from the Norwegian side. Thousands of Tamils in Norway have a deep fear of what is happening now, and we share that concern. The arrangements for the refugee camps are not good enough. Here the world society must be proactive. I would like to specifically ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs his view on the possibility of establishing an international protection mechanism that goes beyond simply requiring the UN and humanitarian organisations to have access to the refugee camps. Can we think again and find solutions where the world community takes more direct responsibility for the security of those who come out of the war zone alive. In this statement, human rights policy was not essentially made. However, I noticed the mention of what Norway will do in the UN Human Rights Council, if we become a member there. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned a wide range of human rights to which one will focus, but not religious freedom. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to ask that the work on freedom of religion and freedom of faith also be given priority; abuse of this human right is all too often forgotten. It has gradually become an impression that this government does not place the same emphasis on an ongoing follow-up of human rights violations as its predecessors. The importance of self-interest, common interest, seems to have been given increasing emphasis to the detriment of a critical follow-up to gross human rights violations. And the reference to human rights dialogues – without critical discussion of whether they actually work in the different cases – is, in our view, used a little too often to circumvent a proper evaluation of policy in this area. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that in the invitation to the follow-up conference on racism, often called Durban II, Norway ‘will work towards trying to use this conference to formulate decisions restricting freedom of expression’. That's an important clarification. At the same time, I should like to hear a clarification. The first conference, held in Durban in the turn of the month of August/September 2001, fully traced and resulted in a unilateral condemnation of Israel. Zionism was made the equivalent of racism. I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can guarantee that Norway will definitely oppose and not compromise any similar resolutions at this year's Conference Against Racism. I'd like his insurance on that. And I miss a more critical evaluation of how some international institutions, which were supposed to be watchmen for human rights, actually work. There's an intersection where you have to say that this is no longer something you can stand behind, perhaps withdraw from conferences to indicate that one cannot participate in any compromise. This concerns both the UN Human Rights Council and the United Nations Conferences on Racism. In short, there were a lot of diplomatic explanations that the basic weaknesses and challenges here were evident. It is a problem that some regimes that are themselves among those who violate human rights are given central positions and, in total, have such a strong influence in such bodies that there is a danger that the organs will be used to the opposite of what is intended for them, to cover human rights violations and to weaken the fight for human rights instead of strengthening them. It is important that Norway is on guard against this. Finally, let me just stress that Norway's authority in the fight for human rights out there also depends on us having a neat debate on important human rights here at home. We may have taken that a little too much for granted in Norway. We're like patents on human rights, at home. I think we should venture a little more critical debate on that. And I think the rounds we've had on freedom of expression and blasphemy lately in particular, are debates to reflect on how we stand in the international debate on these human rights in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e443	Kjell Magne Bondevik has written an insightful article under the heading ‘The world needs to talk to Hamas’. First, that article states that Israel must deal with Hamas ‘as a Palestinian political counterparty’. And on the other hand, ‘A Palestinian Assembly must also receive broad international support through binding diplomatic and economic cooperation. A negotiated two-state solution will in practice mean that Hamas recognises Israel as a state.» – In other words, there is no requirement for opinions in advance, but simply emphasis on practice and the ability to engage in negotiations. Does Dagfinn share the sight of Kjell Magne Bondevik?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e455	The Christian People's Party has stood for a consistent line in its view of the Middle East conflict. We have a clear and clear friendship with Israel based on the right of Israel to exist, to security and to defend itself, but also to provide a fair solution for both Israelis and Palestinians. The way in which it goes through negotiations, and it goes through negotiations with all the parties necessary to achieve it. In this context, a consolidated Palestinian Party is also absolutely necessary. However, we have always been concerned that Norway has to cooperate with the other international communities in terms of the requirements and prerequisites for such negotiations to succeed. That's what I referred to in my article, and that's the Christian People's Party's view.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e460	It has been interesting to follow the Gaza debate and see that the Christian People's Party has had a clear capacity for a more nuanced message than the Progress Party has had. I believe an important signal to Israel is that parties that have traditionally been close to them can also promote a message of criticism. I would like to commend Dagfinn Højbråten for that. At the same time, in the Højbrätten’s speeches today, there is once again a one-sided focus on what kind of demands need to be made on the Palestinian side in order for negotiations and a peace settlement to be achieved. I would then like to challenge the hoof on what kind of demands he wants to make to the government of Israel, not least in the light of the election we have had this week, where we have seen that the parties that are least and are set to dialogue have had a clear progress. What kind of demands will the Christian People’s Party make to the government of Israel to help us draw closer to a peace settlement in the Middle East?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e467	I would first like to thank you for your recognition from SV. I hope that the ability to look nuanced on the different sides of the conflict also spreads to other parties. For the time being, I have heard very little from SV in relation to Hamas. So I'd like to return it. I want to say it this way: I think most people who follow the situation in the Middle East, both those who are close to it and are part of it, and those who follow it a little bit more from the sideline, are very aware of what's going to happen to arrive at a negotiated solution. The problem is your way. The road there depends on the fact that both Palestinian and Israeli leadership is willing to go that way and is supported internationally to go that way. I have great faith that we now have a leadership in the United States that not only thinks that this should be done when you're "lame duck" in the last part of the second presidential period, but you have to get hold of this early in the period. It will require both Israelis and Palestinians to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e474	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e477	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his broad and good review of the main challenges facing foreign policy in the future. I'm not going to take any 'tour d'horizontal', but rather pick out a few items. The Central Party is pleased with the emphasis that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had in the review of its northern regions. The main strategic focus of the government is gradually being filled with content. The challenges in the area have become more than smaller since the Soria Moria Declaration was written and the Government presented its 22-point plan in 2006. Increased challenges are mainly due to faster climate change than we thought. Less ice in the Arctic means more activity. As a consequence, the focus is increased on the legal basis in the Arctic Ocean. The centre party believes that this field must have maximum attention, and is pleased with the emphasis placed on this by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. More activity in the Arctic also gives us entirely practical challenges related to preparedness in terms of our ability to save human lives if something goes wrong, but also environmentally in view of the vulnerability of the ecosystem in this area. Close and close cooperation between different authorities is needed in order to achieve this. I hope the Foreign Minister can confirm that this is the case. The expectations of the entire Northern Region policy are high. Many demand for increased ring-effects of north-eastern policy in general and especially on land. The central party looks forward to further concreteisation of the Northern Region bet by the Government in the future. In our neighbourhoods there is also Iceland, a country that lies in many ways with broken backs after economic collapse. The crisis in Iceland is a concrete outcome of predatory capitalism that is now going to hit the world hard. The case of Iceland shows the need for stronger regulation of the economy internationally. At the moment, world leaders seem to have more than enough to handle the acute crisis. However, it is urgent to move on to discussing what is needed to prevent a similar downturn in its world economy — a downturn that we only have a fluke of in Norway but which strikes like a tsunami in poor countries. Mountain and valley railways in the world economy hit the weakest in the rich countries hardest, and poor countries hit in a particularly strong way, somewhat depending on the extent to which they are actually integrated into the world economy. The debate on increased regulation of the world economy in order to prevent the mountain and valley rail economy must also include assessments of the trading system. I think it is worth asking ourselves whether we are sure that the right thing in today's situation is to conclude a new round of negotiations in a trading system that has the foundation that a freest possible world trade is the most appropriate for everyone. The assessment of the centre party is that the WTO must also be viewed with critical eyes in a process where the world’s economic system is to be put under scrutiny. But back to Iceland. The central party is clearly of the opinion that Norway must do what is possible to help bring Iceland back to its feet, at all times based on what Icelandic authorities consider appropriate. It is gratifying that the Ministry of Finance should examine the possibility of monetary union between the two countries. Investigation work may be undertaken by the Minister of Finance in any area, without necessarily having to consult the Storting. But the time has definitely come to have an Iceland strategy based on the new reality of our Western neighbour. In front of this foreign policy debate, there was a play from the Right critical of the human rights work of the Government, which was thought to be too offensive. It is important to have a careful consideration of whether one at any time does enough, and the right things, in this field. It is also important to use a clear language when needed. It is a problem that often becomes too diplomatic in the use of words in international contexts. But if there's one area you have to tread in, it's exactly the area of human rights. If you want influence, you have to go forward. Petersen from the Right did not run around like an elephant in a glass shop in this field in his time as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Neither should the right do it in the future. It'll backfire. Marking policies can always be pursued, but this will often run counter to a goal achievement. The Soria Moria Declaration is ready for the Government to increase efforts in UN-led operations in Africa. It is good for Norway to provide the field hospital to Chad. The Central Party is also pleased with the Government's confirmation of ongoing contact with the UN with a view to contributing to MONUC, the UN Congo operation. While the world is watching Gaza and spending resources dealing with its own economic crises, fighting in the East Congo is raging, with some of the worst abuses against women and children the world has ever witnessed. The Congo conflict is inexhaustible. It's about ethnic hatred, about citizenship, about the fight for fertile land and about the control of valuable minerals. This is demanding politics. But it is a fact that there is a very brutal game, with varying alliances that have great military forces, and those who lose are the civilians. The war's been going on for 15 years. We don't have numbers on how many people have been killed. The best estimate is 5.6 million-- maybe the number is 5 million, maybe the number is 6 million. It's in any case a grotesque high number. The situation in Gaza arouses disgust, with good reason. Many of us are on demonstration trains for the Palestinians. It's a crossroads of thought that we don't go on demonstration trains for the civilian population in Congo. We don't know how many people are killed, as mentioned. We have no idea how many women are destroyed for life, not only after rape, but after sexual mutilation and torture. Girls of five years are as vulnerable as women of 80. We're talking about sexualised torture as strategic weapons. Being a woman is more dangerous than being a soldier in today's Congo. The question is seaworthy: why in the world is it not the world community that intervenes to a greater extent than what is being done in Congo when it is chosen to do so in a country such as Afghanistan? The answer to that is probably not that hard to find. The answer is simply that there are no interests in the Congo that could threaten Western interests – ergo we are only moderately concerned with the conflict. The Taliban threatened the West. That's why we invaded Afghanistan. No actors in the conflict in Congo are a threat to the West. That's why we're sitting as quietly as possible. But we're not sitting perfectly still. There's a UN operation in place. The problem is, the troops are too few. You can't do the job of protecting the civilian population. We contribute humanitarianly in Congo – 218 million. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. That's good. It's an important work that's useful. The effort should probably be increased. It is also true that there is no military solution in Congo. There's only a political solution if you're looking for lasting peace. But this relationship does not mean that we should not put up military now to care for a civilian population suffering from the degrees that we see in this country. It's time to show that people in Africa are as much worth as Kari and Ola. There is no excuse that other Western countries are sitting on the fence watching. It is precisely in such situations that we need small, committed and solidarity countries that take responsibility for the weakest by going to the front. When the Central Party is keenly concerned that we should also be in the Congo militarily, it is precisely for us to go to the front, that we should contribute to other Western countries as well. Today, we are in a situation where we must refer to the conditions in Congo as a significant failure of the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e517	The Secretary of State put the emphasis on protectionism in the light of the financial crisis, saying that it was his experience that a majority of the world leaders had learned from the mistakes made in the 1930s with rival protectionism. Despite this, the Government has done very little to counter protectionism and combat trade barriers from the Norwegian side. However, from our departure, customs duties were applied on goods from the small, poor country of Swaziland, and the Senterpartie finally applauded. I would therefore like to ask: what other measures, besides this, will the Centre now call for to precisely counteract Norwegian protectionism and promote free trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e529	Let me first of all be quite clear that the Central Party has been all the way so that we do not have customs barriers to the poorest countries. It's a policy that the Central Party has been pursuing for years, and it's a policy that we're going to pursue in the future. We are in a difficult situation internationally in relation to the trading system and to protectionism. The clear objective of the centre party is to have a global well-functioning trading system – a trading system that should not be the aim of its own seas to be freed, but a trading system that provides wise regulation for the world economy, so as to avoid a situation where it is the strongest law that becomes the dominant in the field of trade. The way forward is to have a thorough discussion of the role of the trading system. It's only when we have common rules, that we want to prevent harmful protectionism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e538	One should not read much in the international media these days to see that one of those things that is a fear in the wake of the financial crisis is an increasing protectionism. One sees evidence that in some countries where we are not so far away, one prepares measures that make the alarm clocks ring. Then I think it's quite eye-catching to hear Åslaug Hagas' posts, where she brings in the idea that maybe you should reconsider the Doha Round during the WTO, and that maybe it's not the answer to the current challenges. I then have to ask: is it more important for the Centre Party to protect Norwegian agriculture through subsidies than to develop international agreements, such as: be among the most important tools we want to protect against protectionism?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e545	The world is facing an economic situation that makes it necessary for us to think through what action should be taken to get a world economy with better regulation. Many people also make up their minds so that we can have a more stringent regulation of the world economy to prevent the kind of dramatic outcome that we now see. When we are going to have a full review of how our economic system works, as we need to have, we also need to assess the trading system and the constraints on the trading system in order for it to be a system that serves all the inhabitants of the world, and not just the richest ones. In that discussion, there is also a point that we are discussing agriculture, which is of fundamental importance and is in a different category than many other fields, because people depend on food to survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e552	No more people have asked for the word for a line – yes, Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e555	Thank you very much, President! It gives me the opportunity to get into the line I had originally intended to take, but I was then moved by the representative's posts, about Doha. Congo also devoted a lot of time. We know that the Center Party has been a champion for Norway to engage, and honour them for that. I have been following the Congo conflict for many years, and the suffering is enormous. The country is huge, the conflict is big, and the needs are incredibly high in response. But I think there is an international consensus that it must be achieved in this big country, there must be a quite massive amount of military intervention, and it must be parallel to a concerted effort by the international community and the major powers to put political pressure on all parties, both in the Congo and around. And then you have to be prepared for a considerable humanitarian effort afterwards. Does Åslaug Haga really think that the prerequisites are there for doing so now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e564	That is a very special question asked by the representative of Vallersnes, for the world community has said to have an operation in Congo, that is MONUC. Now the representative of Vallersnes asks whether it was a wise decision by the world community to decide to have an operation in the country. My answer is quite clear: yes, the preconditions are that the civilian population in Congo should be protected. If you're going to get it, it takes way more than the 17,000 troops that currently exist in Congo. In Afghanistan, more than 17,000 troops will be found in each province, and in total, Congo has a land area larger than Western Europe. Yes – my answer is clear. We're not going to go back and say that it's going to happen in Congo. We have to follow up what has been the decision of the world community, that here you have to set up troops to protect people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e576	I would first like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good and thorough presentation. I can stand behind most of what he said. I take this as an expression that there is still a broad consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. Helpful in this way is that the EU was not mentioned. Furthermore, another controversial theme, the rocket shield of the United States, is hibernated. I hope now that the Obama administration will use its political capital on completely different and more urgent matters. Here it's more than enough to take off. Another observation is that one of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Foreign Affairs Committee has been in Gaza and looked at the situation. I want to give him credit for that. And he let himself be influenced by what he saw. This can contribute to a less polarised debate here in Norway on the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that in 2009, we saw a renewed belief that crises and conflicts could be met with active use of diplomacy and international cooperation. After eight years with Bush, I want to welcome such a new approach. I now have expectations of what might come out of a new contact between the United States and Iran, and I hope that the United States will follow up the dialogue line on other international arenas as well. At the beginning of 2009, I am also very concerned about the situation in Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, and I am asking the Government to make an active contribution to preventing further humanitarian disasters in these countries. Here at home, I want to commend the red-green government for promoting the dialogue line in its foreign policy. For example, Norway was: one of the driving forces in NATO to resume contact with Russia after the invasion of Georgia in the last autumn. I fully support this, as an isolation of our great neighbor in the east is not in our interest. Whatever the economic situation in the relationship between Russia and the outside world, we need to have a continuous dialogue with Moscow and say clearly about human rights violations. Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed to the need to engage in dialogue with Hamas. The left was among those who stood behind the support he gave the assembly government between Fatah and Hamas in 2007. However, the power of the storms and several parties in this chamber would be different. Since then, the isolation line has shown that it has clear constraints. I therefore fully support those who call for Hamas to be included in further peace talks. Without them, I do not see the possibility of lasting peace. To me, it is worrying that the last war has strengthened irreconcilable forces on both sides. The elections in Israel have given a turn in the right-hand-military direction. This may make it even harder than before to start a peace process. The time thus appears to run out of a two-state solution, as expressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This raises the unpleasant question of what could happen instead, or whether there is a political solution to the conflict at all. In any case, I am convinced that much more – and not less – dialogue is needed between all stakeholders. The Norwegian dialogue line has also been conducted in disputed UN bodies. I put myself here somewhat more doubtful to the government line. The UN Human Rights Council is now actively used by several authoritarian countries to silence human rights violations. If we have a place in the Council for the period 2009-2012, I think we should be very clear about focusing on the Council's mandate, namely to protect individuals from abuse. This also applies in relation to the Durban II Racism Conference, which is to be organised by the UN Human Rights Council. Here some Islamic countries are trying to get religious criticism adopted as a human rights crime. This, I believe, is a misrepresentation that can invite authoritarian regimes to view religious criticism as a regime criticism. Norwegian participation should not be taken into account in any way in this respect. It should be directed towards moving people's focus back on human rights. Norway should not be involved in giving legitimacy to those undermining the work on human rights in the UN. Much suggests that the current rate in Afghanistan should be adjusted in 2009. The overall strategy has long been characterised by military efforts, but this has not produced the desired results. I therefore believe that civil and humanitarian efforts should be stepped up. Furthermore, I believe that our role as an external actor should be to strengthen the Afghans' ability to promote their own security, governance and development. I therefore support what the Foreign Minister said about ‘afghanistan’. The same applies to what he said about neighbouring countries that should be involved as parties in a peace and stabilisation process. However, I am somewhat surprised that he did not mention the need for better coordination of international efforts. According to President Obama’s new mission to Afghanistan, Richard Holbrooke, there are relatively chaotic conditions. So despite a good effort by the United Nations coordinator, Kai Eide, there's still a lot to be done in this critical area. Corruption seems to be a persistent problem. But there is also a lot of positive that has happened. I am also somewhat surprised at what the Foreign Minister said about dialogue and reconciliation in Afghanistan. He pointed out that the initiative for an internal dialogue must come from the Afghans themselves. Given Norway’s active diplomacy of peace and its commitment to dialogue, it seems strange that he excludes external actors. They could also be contributing positively. I therefore believe that all opportunities should be kept open, given that much is at stake, not only for Afghanistan, but also for other countries in the region, and not least for NATO. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention so much about the build-up of strength in Afghanistan. The United States will now deploy 30,000 new soldiers, and the Obama administration is expected to put pressure on allies, including, among other things, Norway, so that they too can contribute more forces. In line with all previous experience, this will create internal tensions – possibly – in the red-green government. I have noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in his report by the Congo that the Government is investigating the possibility of sending a Norwegian power contribution to the Congo. Given that we're close to the capacity limit for how many soldiers we can deploy into international operations, it might seem that the Government will deploy our last available soldiers in the Congo. The question is therefore whether the Government has already closed the door to further strength contributions to Afghanistan or whether this remains open. I would like to have a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this. I think it's just as clarifying every time the government, with SV on board, states that NATO is a cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did it properly in his investigation. NATO has demonstrated a high degree of adaptability and is likely to continue to be significant in the future. At the April anniversary summit, there is likely to be agreement to start work on a new overall policy strategy. As I see it, finding the right balance between efforts far beyond the geographical area of the alliance and efforts to protect its own areas and neighbourhoods will be a central challenge. Northern areas are of great importance here, not only for Norway but also for other NATO countries. I believe that this should be reflected in the new strategy. The recordings from Thorvald Stoltenberg on enhanced Nordic security cooperation represent a fresh breath in our domestic debate. Several of the proposals are based on proposals already promoted by the defence ministers in Norway, Finland and Sweden. However, some of the proposals go significantly further. I have particularly noted here the proposal for a mutual Nordic security guarantee. We are assured that this is not going to replace existing anchoring that the Nordic countries have for their security policies. However, I have my doubts. I believe that the proposal is far-reaching and can require significant adjustments in relation to NATO, both for Nordic countries and within and outside the alliance. Nevertheless, I will praise Stoltenberg for having made a thought-provoking recording. It can extend the framework for our security policy debate. It can also help to push Nordic cooperation forward in the field of security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e624	In his statement, the representative Larsen expressed concern about whether any operation in the Congo should be at the expense of our involvement in Afghanistan. In a press release on the Left Party's website, the representative Larsen, on behalf of the Left Party, states that Norway must contribute, as a matter of urgency, both military personnel, equipment and financial assistance to finance MONUC's efforts in Congo. So there's nothing wrong with the ambitions of the left hand side. At the same time, in its budget for this year, the Left cut off the Ministry of Defence budget. How should the Left find military personnel to be sent to the Congo when the representative Larsen has now clearly stated that Afghanistan should not go at the expense of the Congo?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e631	In my contribution, I tried to problem a little of the challenges Norway has in sending peacekeeping forces. With the Obama Administration now saying clearly from the outset that they want other NATO countries to participate in and support for greater strength – and there will probably be an enquiry into Norway – while seeing the catastrophic humanitarian destruction in Congo, I see that this is a challenge for Norway. I believe that in a long-term perspective we have to take account of both. I have also asked the Foreign Minister a question about how we can work to secure this in the future, so that you do not say that you should send more soldiers to Congo, while closing the door for Afghanistan. I see that we need to bet on both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e636	Palestinian business is all the way down. They are exposed to the perhaps most effective boycott to which it is possible to be exposed – they are not allowed to export goods. This was among others. the basis for setting conservatives in the United Kingdom. They clearly told the Israelis that they would also deal with the Palestinians. The basis for this is, among other things, Kåre Willoch's value conservative approach to the Middle East conflict. So there is no doubt that Israel, on the other hand, is also paying a price for policies carried out. We're in a situation where one has two losing parties in the same territory. But it is clear, in my view, that Israel should be subjected to pressure, not least to break international UN resolutions. We now see that Veolia, a French company, lost a 20 billion kroner contract in Stockholm just because they did the same in Jerusalem. How can the Left help propose a means of pressuring that can be effective against the Israeli government's policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e643	Let there be no doubt that the Left in all aid policies stands for strengthening trade. We also believe that in relation to these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e648	I would like to reiterate my question to the representative Larsen: How does the Left see that we are going to increase the Norwegian contribution to the strength of Afghanistan, while, as it says in a press release on the Left's website, we must send military personnel to the Congo as soon as possible, all the time left in our draft budget cutters in the Ministry of Defence's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e653	As I said before, I see those challenges, and I see that it may be necessary to look at the defence budget in this context, because Norway has obligations towards NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e661	It has been focused on the universal human rights in the debate. I welcome that. I would like to say that defence and the promotion of universal human rights are a priority in Norwegian foreign policy, both as a separate initiative and as a presence in all policy areas of which the Government is concerned. I see that there is also a debate on the strategies to be followed. That's good, too. The choice of strategies is important and, to the greatest extent, a political question: how do we get an impact? How can we best influence? And how do we approach the forums and meeting places where others stand with attitudes that differ from ours? Given that human rights are universal and anchored in the UN, I believe that we need as a strategy to engage and participate where the most important discussions are held, where decisions are made, and where the leaders are put. Our starting point must be to look at the core of the main political arenas where we can make a difference. That's the government's attitude. Let me add: such an attitude is obviously not a blank mandate or proof that we acknowledge any outcome of the various political and international legal processes in which we participate. It's not like that in any political assemblies. We can't always expect full penetration. We sometimes have to accept to live with a compromise. But of course there's a limit. As in all negotiations, there may be a point where we believe that no agreement or no text is better than a bad agreement or a bad text. But the attitude must be to go actively into it. It is not often I quote the views of the Progress Party, but I would like to make an exception here and refer to what the representative Höglund said in a debate on our participation in the follow-up to the UN World Conference on Racism: we should ‘true to stay’, said Höglund. So far, I think it's a wiser strategy than spending a lot of time threatening to travel, at least not leaving the negotiating table now, as long as this is completely open. No country participating in this process is in any doubt as to the position of Norway. We are working intently to strengthen the protection against racism and not weaken the protection of freedom of expression. As I said in my presentation, we shall prevent a group of countries from using this conference to formulate decisions restricting freedom of expression. So I would say, just to clear up the concepts: what happened with a lot of focus on Israel in 2001 was, as far as I've been told again, at the parallel NGO conference that took place at that time. It has something to do with freedom of expression. We can regret that, but there were many expressions in the debate between many groups. There was broad international support for the 2001 Final Document – The Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination. It had full support from all countries except the United States and Israel. It was adopted by the UN General Assembly after only these two had distanced themselves. It was also followed up here, under the previous government, in a proper way. The 2001 Final Document established a platform for work against racism, among others: in the EU, and Norway has implemented many of these measures. When it comes to participating in UN bodies: Representative Larsen almost gave a blank mandate to negotiate with Hamas – she went beyond what I've heard the government parties do in this area – while she was skeptical of dialogue within bodies like the United Nations. The Human Rights Council is such a case. I believe that we are responsible for working to make the United Nations work. This responsibility goes far beyond ourselves. It's about protecting vulnerable people all over the world. During the Bush administration, the United States chose to stand outside and not engage in the Council's work. Under Obama, the United States has announced that it will engage and want membership. This isn't a perfect organ. The fact that we meet countries called squatters is actually a reality in the world, because that's what the world looks like. But at the same time, there is no reason why we should not actively go in and try to influence the processes that are going on. In the new Human Rights Council, there are new mechanisms that we need to actively explore and use, such as: a review of the fulfilment by each country of its obligations in the field of MRs. It had to be adopted before – now it is automatic. Against this background, we recently had a thorough review of Russia, Saudi Arabia and China, where Norway had the opportunity to raise many critical questions. And as the representative Højbrätten said, we also need to discuss our own compliance with the rules. We're also going to be subjected to that type of review. So I would say: in these political arenas, I would warn against what I think I see in Norwegian debate: a failing belief in our own values – a fear that we may be in a minority, a fear that our values cannot be defended and have universal effect. Reality in recent years is a significant strengthening of universal human rights, both through rules and the establishment of courts, etc. and greater impact on human rights in many countries. Think that Rwanda has abolished the death penalty – after the crises that it has been through! We're going to go into these debates with faith in our values, which are not Western but universal. The representative Vallersnes is talking about us being used to our own values from our own cultural circle. Yes, many countries are used to it, but it also requires openness to see how we can now work with land from other cultural circles that also share the view of universal human rights. So we're going to have an offensive attitude, but I'm saying very clearly: if there's an outcome to the so-called Durban II conference that limits freedom of expression, Norway doesn't want it. Of course. But we're not there today. It is Russia that is now leading the work on the final document. The EU is too full. We also need to know that when it comes to racism, there are many countries, for example. countries that have previously had colonies, which may have motives against this conference, because, among other things, questions of responsibility for slavery, etc. comes up. Here, therefore, it is a complex agenda, where I want Norway to be actively involved, preferably until we get a document that everyone can accept, and with maximum impact. To the representative Høglund: The confusion is now complete around the view of the Progress Party on UNRWA. He's absolutely right that we can't cut the allocation to UNRWA now. It says this spokesman now both in the press and in the room, and he uses my term: UNRWA is the 'liveline'. He says that cutting to UNRWA is now ‘unaccountable’. I've rarely heard a progress party man call his president irresponsible. Siv Jensen said in a debate with me on 13 January: We are at the decision to cut 50 pst. in 2009. That's it! She said after Höglund had said in the paper that it was not appropriate to cut now: we are at the time of the decision. That was 90 pst. Cut in 2008, and 50 pst. in 2009. It's irresponsible politics, and so far we have to assume that it's the President's words that apply. The representative, Mr Höglund, referred to the debate in the US Congress on UNRWA. Yes, there is that debate, but the US under Bush has increased the allocation to UNRWA every year, because he also sees that this is the lifeline. I would like to say to the representative of Vallersnes: I referred to disarmament – a principle of importance in my presentation. We are standing by, in close cooperation with Germany within NATO, driving the disarmament agenda. Through the 7-country initiative, we have laid a broad technical basis – which we now know is on the Obama administration table – in cooperation with leading environments, and we will follow it closely in the future. The representative, Højbräten, says we should have international protection mechanisms. Yeah, that's the way it should be in Sri Lanka in the desperate situation that's there. At the same time, we know what tragedies have occurred, among others. in former Yugoslavia with so-called ‘safe areas’ which were not protected. The reality today is that Sri Lanka's government, which has a powerful weapon power, does not allow anyone to enter such a counterpower. There is still much doubt as to whether the United Nations and the International Red Cross have access at all. Then again, I can just confirm that we view religious freedom as a freedom to be defended, among other human rights, and it shows that it is a wide range of human rights. They don't stand above each other, they have to be defended in width. I just want to confirm to the representative, Mr Haga, that it is the government's policy that the Doha negotiations should be concluded. They started in 2001 and have been through many waves on the road. I think that, not least for the poor countries, it would be a dramatic setback if you were to pull the break and zero out all that is in the negotiating base that does not come into force until everything comes into force. So the most important thing now is to make the way short to a conclusion of that agreement. Then we'll have a debate on what's the next step, both on the arrangements for the negotiations, on the introduction of e.g. decent work, more focus on environment and climate and technology transfer. But we cannot burden that agenda with this now – that is my opinion. Finally, I would like to say to the representative Larsen, who believes that I did not mention the lack of coordination as a problem in Afghanistan, that she has not heard what I said. One of the main problems is lack of coordination. We committed ourselves in Paris to better coordination. There are signs that it is now happening under UN leadership, but there is still a lot to be done in that area. I also believe that the representative Drettebergstuen has not yet received a response from the representative Larsen regarding two conflicting realities in the Left's wishful thinking. It is not always unusual in these areas with regard to the Left – yes, thanks both. But we cannot, as the representative wants, both increase the number of soldiers in Afghanistan and send more soldiers to Congo. It does not have Norway’s capacity for today, nor is it a gap in which the Government will go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e697	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e700	Of course, we agree with the draft budget we presented in December. But as I have so far responded in several lines, the situation of UNRWA is more than the relationship with Gaza, and it is a short-term and a long-term perspective. I wanted to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say a little about the negotiations and the meetings that are now, among other things. shall be in Egypt about Gaza. It is important to seek humanitarian aid, and it is important to look at a reconstruction of the situation. But in parallel with this, you also have to get hold of the smuggling and that bit, and hopefully get a regime that can give Israel some kind of certainty that you can get control of, among other things. Weapon smuggling, which is a major problem. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view getting the parties involved in something that can have an effect and that can help to strangle at least the military part of Hamas?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e708	The short term is the year we live in now. The representative now says that there is no time to cut support for UNRWA, but that they are at the 50 pst cuts. in 2009. I don't make it go up. The Government will present a proposal for an increase in the allocation to UNRWA. It can be revised, and it is exciting to see how the Progress Party will balance the short to long term and what is the definition of those concepts. Smuggling is a problem. I think that the problem has partly come out of proportion by having the impression that there is massive gun smuggling going on through the tunnels. It stands against the analysis that most of these weapons are snowcreted in Gaza, and that the smuggling is about a wide range of other necessities of life. It's not unnatural with the decommissioning regime you've seen. But having smuggling is an unhealthy situation, and therefore there should be more open borders with better control to prevent smuggling. This work is in progress, and it is very sensitive to Egypt. Norway is committed to it. We were at a meeting in Copenhagen about this a week ago, together with countries that want to support under the truce by providing greater security for what is crossing the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e717	I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs has registered that an overall opposition thinks it is very good in the foreign statement, but that the focus on human rights under this government has been perceived as too little. I mean, there's a lot of good in dialogue as a tool, but there's some dilemmas about dialogue. One of the dilemmas is that dialogue sometimes results in the legitimacy of systems and regimes to which legitimacy is not sought. I have a specific question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thorbjørn Jagland has today written a chronicle in the Newspaper where he has summed up his position on the Durban II conference as follows: ‘Norway should stay at home from the United Nations Conference on Racism — or go home along the way — if there is no stoppage in respect of human rights’. Is this a possible position for today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e731	I hope the representative Solberg heard what I said, that there are always limits, and that there is always a situation where no agreement or no text is better than an agreement with a bad text. It's a principle view, and it's also true here. I also said in my post that if this ends up in a siding where you go free speech, Norway will not accept it. It is an attitude that is reflected in Thorbjørn Jagland's article, in which I do not otherwise share the reality description at all stages, but which has the point to which I can clearly subscribe. But I repeat that we are going into this debate with a bridge construction ambition, not to compromise on values, but to get new groups of countries to join in on broader solutions. African countries are concerned with racism; they are not concerned with the siding that some countries are trying to get. Then we have to involve the African countries. The Latin American countries are committed to entering into a debate on this without being derailed. We must then also be able to make proposals that can contribute to this. That's what's going on right now. Then we'll sum up later in ours if we're there that we can accept the result. Here, too, we are in line with the EU, which Solberg's representative tends to be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e738	The Minister of Foreign Affairs contributed with great rhetoric to clarify the dual communication that the Advance Party has been operating in support of the Palestinian territories. That's what I'm putting behind. I'll give him another challenge: to clear up a little bit on my own side of the road. SV's spokesman here today has assured with a broad pen that SV does not support a general boycott of Israel, only a consumer boycott is supported. However, as recently as January, SV has entered into a decision by local government and county councils that the public should not use suppliers that support Israel. It has also been decided that the Government should withdraw from the Investment of the Pension Fund in Israeli companies, as well as sell Israeli bonds held by Norway, and also remove organisations supporting Israel from the list of organisations receiving tax-free gifts in Norway. Is this a public boycott, or is it a private boycott?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e747	It is the wrong man who is standing here and answering. There is a question of how they define the decisions they make in their various bodies and what they encourage must be asked. I'm concerned with the government's policy, and the government's policy is not to go in for boycott. What the individual Norwegian consumer wants to do and demonstrate his political commitment is up to the individual Norwegian consumer. The representative Højbräten and I are among them, and we have to be responsible for our choices. There is no doubt about what is the government's policy here, it was cleared quite clearly in as there was doubt about it, in January 2006. The doubt has not occurred at any time later. What comes in different political bodies around the country, local, regional or central, must be part of the ongoing political change. However, a further clarification of how a lot defines its decisions must almost be made by the lot itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e756	As I mentioned in my post, I have noticed the Secretary of State's reference to the Congo, where he stated that the Government investigated the possibility of sending Norwegian power contributions to the Congo. The left very much agrees that we have to do that. Given that we are close to the capacity limit for how many soldiers we can put into international operations, it may seem that the government is now sending our last available soldiers to the Congo. The question I asked in my post was whether the government with this is already on its way to closing the door for further strength contributions in Afghanistan, and hence to NATO, or whether it is still being kept open. This is not wishful thinking from the Left, but it's about real priorities. What I asked in my post was to get the Foreign Minister's comment on this. What is the government's priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e763	It's about priorities, and the left shows that their priorities don't go up at all. So you want the defence budget down, the soldiers in Afghanistan up, and the soldiers in Congo up. It's not gonna work. I believe Norway has a high level of participation in Afghanistan today. The government does not plan to increase that level. It's going to be quality, it's going to be time-wise, and it's going to fit into the problem you're going to solve. I don't imagine an increase there, as the situation is now. The Minister of Defence, after his visit, has said that we should be able to make an effort to support the UN in Congo over time. We contribute field hospitals to Chad, we have staff officers who can make an effort in the first place, and then we'll see what the capacity is. Afghanistan is a commitment we've made, and it's not about going down there to go up somewhere else in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e774	To a completely different question. Last year a Norwegian student was killed in London. The wanted one is hiding in his homeland, Yemen. The case has been locked when it comes to getting an extradition and getting him brought to trial. What can the Minister of Foreign Affairs do, and what can Norway do to get the trial in place, hopefully in a place that can give a credible trial? What diplomatic instruments can we set in motion against Yemen so that the killed Norwegian student and her survivors will get the sentence that everyone is looking forward to, to end this evil chapter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e781	I agree that this is a bad chapter, and we share the despair that Martine's family experience around the unexplained fact that the suspect is going loose and is not being brought to justice. This is, to be precise, a British primary responsibility. The killing took place on British soil. Norway has actively supported the British through cooperation between the authorities and between the police, and I have taken it up regularly with my British colleague, who shares my commitment. The goal has been to get this person delivered in order to be able to respond to the appeal by a British court. There has been a hope that we could get to that. Now, as a first message, Yemen has said that this is not the case. The problem of this person being brought to justice in Yemen, if any, is an imminent risk of death penalty. One view that both the United Kingdom and Norway share is that we want to oppose the outcome of such a case, because in principle we are opponents of the death penalty. The answer must then remain diplomatic work to get the person out, and Norway will continue to be engaged in, in cooperation with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e790	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e793	The fourth year had the worst possible conclusion, and that year has got the worst possible start, with the war in Gaza. Human suffering, great destruction, fear and hatred – it is terrible to start a new year when the conflict over all conflicts seems to be further from a solution than ever. It was felt as if sitting at home following the war through the news, but at the same time not having enough access to information from the war zone because Israel did not allow journalists to report from Gaza. It was good to see the popular commitment that was mobilized here at home during the weeks of the war. That means more than we think. A group of Palestinian parliamentarians visited Oslo at the beginning of January, and they stressed several times how important this kind of marking and support is to the Palestinian people. We know that you're with us, that makes us think that we'll even get through this as well, they told us repeatedly. Gaza, which was a humanitarian disaster even before the war broke out, is now in ruins. Enormous quantities of human lives have been lost, even more are damaged, infrastructure is destroyed, and all there was a shortage before the war, food, medicine, yes, mostly, is the greater need now. Now we need to focus on urgent humanitarian aid, rebuild Gaza and get a review of violations of international law, and then, in a long-term perspective, we need to try to re-establish a peace process on our legs. A prerequisite for any hope for a solution to the conflict is that the Palestinians' daily lives will be improved. Being occupied, walled in, and held stranglehold on by the neighbor only breeds more hatred. It was gratifying that the Foreign Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party apparently changed his attitude to the conflict and the instruments after visiting Gaza, moving away from the policy of the Progress Party. Lack of commitment to the Palestinian cause has been what has marked the policy of the Progress Party, and the party's desired Norwegian position towards the conflict as it has been and is expressed in the party's programmes and alternative budgets, is a policy that would help to exacerbate the conflict and suffering that has been going on for far too many years. One-sided support for Israel, the desire for complete boycott of Hamas and the gross cut in aid to the Palestinian territories would definitely make the situation worse. Every year, the Progress Party proposes enormous cuts in the regional allocation to the Middle East and to UNRWA. For the year's budget, the year you may be dependent on the most support, they proposed to cut 85 pst. in the regional allocation and more than 50 pst. in the aid granted to UNRWA. These cuts are not just figures in a budget, they are cuts that would have meant cut schooling for Palestinian children, cut health measures for sick people, cut emergency aid, medicines, food, energy supply, wages and democracy. These are the facts behind the progress party's cut. As I have said, the Progress Party proposed to cut over 50 pst. in the support of UNRWA, a UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, agreed by the world community to stabilise the situation in the Middle East. The organisation is publicly supported by both Israel and Palestinian self-government authorities, by the Quartet and by the outside world as a whole, but not by the Progress Party. Here, too, the Progress Party is on the sideline. It was gratifying that the representative Höglund apparently changed his position, but it is unfortunately not likely that Höglund's process of change would spread to his party traps, and that we would see a turnaround in practical action in programs and budgets ahead, as the rest of the party leadership quickly went out and affirmed that there had been some political change of attitude. Norway’s active financial support for a stronger Palestinian society is more than just emergency aid. It is a prerequisite for establishing a viable and democratic Palestinian state. In order to strengthen the economy in the areas and to improve the precarious humanitarian situation of the Palestinian people, it is absolutely necessary to get some way to resolve the conflict. Unfortunately, the policy of the Progress Party only contributes to the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e820	The Minister of Foreign Affairs also spent some time this time explaining what he calls the main strategic focus of the Government, namely the North. Active presence in the north with resource management has several times characterized the statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but this has been somewhat downgraded this time. Whether this is related to contradictions in the Government or to the Workers' Party's lack of position for opening oil fields in the north in their new programme, I do not know, but the rhetoric has at least changed since the last. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave the Arctic Council a more important role than before. The Council participates in Arctic coastal states together with Sweden, Finland and Iceland, while the European Commission and several countries want to become permanent observers, which is very positive. We agree with the Government that this confirms the Arctic Council as an important and central political forum to discuss Arctic issues. We also share the Government's view that in our neighbourhoods in the north, we have national main interests, and that we need to have our attention focused on this. Here, we need to build knowledge and seek partnership and close cooperation with neighbours, allies and other actors present. From our point of view, we are concerned that this must be more than beautiful words and fine wording. We must now actively participate as a nation in the management of resources in the north, whether fish or hydrocarbons. In this way, we will achieve credibility and be able to exercise political influence on north-eastern issues. We also have to look at the activity in the north in the light of the energy situation in the world. Despite working very actively for more use of alternative energy sources, the need for oil and gas will be present for many decades to come, and Norway can continue to play a significant role here if we want to. We agree with the Government's objective that our knowledge environments should lead the North and Arctic regions, mainland and Svalbard. Research and development in the north can also help to give us greater weight and influence on issues relating to the northern regions of the international arena. The Minister of Foreign Affairs rightly points out that Russia is a ‘main axis’ of Norwegian north-eastern policy. It was interesting to hear that the Government feels that Russia is acting in a consistently constructive way, and that there is still a positive development in our bilateral relationship with our neighbourhoods and the Arctic. However, in recent months the expression ‘a more ambitious and self-reliant Russian foreign policy that can make cooperation more demanding’ has been stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have noted the Foreign Minister's considerations about increased military activity along the Norwegian coast, but at the same time I would like to point out that we must not forget that the North is still of great military strategic importance. Following the military conflict in Georgia and the gas conflict with Ukraine, uncertainty has been created around Russia’s further course in the future, and this is worrying. We support the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his attitude to act with firmness in contact and in dialogue with Russia, and we stress that isolation is absolutely not the way to go, even though we do not have the same viewpoint or interests as our Russian neighbours from time to time. In Russia, too, the economic crisis is now marked seriously, and we share the concerns about the protectionist measures that are now being seen by the Russian authorities in the form of an increase in customs duties. We have had an increase in trade between our two countries in recent years, and in addition, we have also cooperated well in both industry and fisheries. We also see growing cooperation in the oil sector that can bring significant benefits to both countries. It is my hope that the signal of protectionist action we now see will not destroy what we have built up for years now, but that the positive development between our two countries can continue, for the benefit of both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e841	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave a solid and broad foreign policy presentation with many important themes. Among other things, it is important today to focus on many of the conflicts that were concealed at the beginning of the year under the violent international focus on Gaza. As far as the Right is concerned, I would therefore like to say that we are concerned about the situation of the civilians in Sri Lanka, we are concerned about the situation in Congo, and it is important that we have a broad humanitarian perspective on this. I want to use most of my post to talk about a longer-term, difficult challenge. For the Right, it is important that Norway has a clear and principled voice in the fight for fundamental human rights internationally. It is therefore uplifting to hear that today — a little more powerful than in its presentation — the Minister for Foreign Affairs will talk about human rights. The issue of human rights is an important issue today because things have changed over the past four to five years in many international arenas. There seems to be a disagreement about the place of principles in parts of Norwegian foreign policy. There is a disagreement which is particularly up-to-date with the ongoing negative developments in UN human rights work, but also with the fact that even in recent months the foreign leadership has refused to condemn an execution in China, met high-ranking members of the military junta in Burma, visited the dictatorship regime in Cuba, and so the Helsinki Committee reports that there is a full drought in the Norwegian reception of human rights activists and persecutors from North Caucasus. Only during January has Norway’s foreign policy been on a veritable tour of authoritarian regimes — with dialogue as a goal. With the approach of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, he does not seem to be dealing with the fact that we are now in a dangerous development because institutions and processes intended to protect human rights, or to protect people from racism and hatred, now in themselves are at risk of becoming a threat to the same values as they are created for. We therefore believe that we need to be careful to participate in processes where the objectives are defined by those who have launched and set the agenda for these processes, aimed at undermining fundamental human rights. These days, in particular, freedom of expression through attacks on liberal democratic principles, the criminalisation of religious criticism and the setting of a general anti-democratic agenda. Let me do some examples. Thus, the UN Human Rights Council, where Norway has applied for membership from 2009 to 2012, will now report and report back on abuse of freedom of expression as a decrease in rights in line with, for example: torture and political impotence. Luckily, more than the Right sees the dangers of this development, and I will give tribute to Grand President Jagland for having seen much of the same. Another example is found in the preparatory committee before the Geneva Racism Conference in April, where Norway sits with, among other things, Norway. Libya, Iran and Cuba. In the working document which will form the final declaration of the conference, there are a number of proposals which will individually weaken both freedom of expression and other rights, and which together represent a crushing declaration of distrust against the values for which at least we in the Right are working. I allow myself to take some examples from the draft. So there are similarities between religious criticism and racism. Repeated references are made to abuse of freedom of expression. The media shall be restricted. Universal freedoms and rights are relativised through continuous references to cultural peculiarities and religious and cultural identities and proposals for legislation against presenting negatively insulting and mocking images of religions and religious figures. In addition, the document of Israel-like and poorly hidden antisemitism is passed through. In other countries, among others: Denmark, has shown a clearer and more principleal attitude than the Norwegian authorities have so far done. I hope that the Norwegian authorities have a clear and clear principleal attitude. These restrictions on human rights, turning human rights against humans and the regimes, are not processes that Norway can help legitimize.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e856	It was gratifying to inform the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the work being done in the Nordic region is quite well done. What we have achieved from concrete policies, we can go further when it comes to building more international legal order, more law, in the north. I myself have used the latest time to read a 1923 book on the political history of Finland. I even had to admit that the Danish king did a good job for us in the 1600s when it was to negotiate with the Russians. This is a work that has gone like a red thread throughout Norwegian political history. But the basis is there, and I think the government is doing a good job to make this go well ahead. Nothing is more pleasant then than that we can put on the table a sketch, some ideas, we should say challenges, not only from former Minister of Defence and Foreign Minister Thorvald Stoltenberg, but also from all other Nordic foreign ministers, such as this Chamber, Folketinget, Riksdag osb. must take over. If we can make concrete policies of what this selection that Stoltenberg has led, we have come a long way. There's a lot of good germs there, but it depends on whether we can do it. I'm going to have all respect for the fact that the different parties will probably have different starting points for how to design this policy. For SV's part, this is based on two rigid realities. The first is, of course, that they've realized that we're not going to give them as much money as they really want. That's why they need to work together to make their economy go up. It's not for nothing today's defence minister in Sweden is just because his predecessors left because the Minister of Finance cut the budget to the defense with $4 billion overnight. It's a reality that the defense takes over. The Norwegian defence must do the same. They have, they have identified it. We politicians are closest, in part, to the back. Then there's also another reality that operationally has NATO dragons. We're not going to take it that hard on ourselves. This proposal is not, as I see it, a challenge for NATO membership, but a bone to stand on. No one will, either in Washington, Brussels or New York, see this as anything but the Nordics taking more care of their own security. It should be a contribution to the world community. It is also in the proposal that we should be able to look at a declaration of solidarity. I call it a collective security. Perhaps it should be written once, because when we start working in practice, one should also create a programme, which the political party does – when we work politically, we finally create a programme for that work. I think that also comes into some kind of Nordic treaty some time. But it's early. Let's start with the practice, and then we'll see what we're going to have to write. So it's very good that one is also practical. We should have. Foreign stations must also have some Union thoughts about themselves. Sit one in Malawi, there's no point in having five flags there. One can do with one Nordic flag. So let's be practical. In the next country where assistance is well distributed, there may be another Nordic flag. This is just something we have to do, and there's no reason not to cooperate in these areas. Then the Foreign Minister and I have been in a small dispute without having been in the same room – but now we are – about the hall of arms. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has criticised me in part at least. And that's possible there's reason for that, if the evidence that has been found that Norwegian weapons have been present in the Gaza War is wrong. Of course, I will regret it at the end, but there is much to suggest that through a Norwegian state subsidiary, we have been involved in exporting M72 to Israel. It seems that I am problematic, and it is also problematic in view of the fact that Norwegian arms exports have increased by 45 pst. the last year. 92 pst. of the growth that has gone to the United States of America. So there is little doubt that in some way there is at least the intention that Norwegian weapons should not be with where there is war and conflict, broken. But this I think we can find good solutions by e.g. to have an export control board, perhaps appointed by the Government, so that the Storting can carry out a more day-to-day control of the export, because then it becomes more legitimate. In addition, at my discretion, we should also be able to obtain a consumer statement in NATO, such as: Germany and Italy also have. It would be an advantage for everyone that we got more openness about these things. I think it may be a challenge for all of us that we will have better policies in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e873	Norwegian foreign policy is offensive and clear, which is clearly reflected in the Foreign Minister’s presentation. Norwegian foreign and security policy shall safeguard Norwegian interests, but also Norwegian values. During the period, the government has strengthened the focus of interest. This includes, inter alia: increased foreign policy weights in our neighbourhoods, but also in areas where Norway has special competence. Norwegian foreign policy should also help build a better organised world and promote peace and human rights, and, of course, safeguard our well-being and security. Our competences in peace building, social development and international organisation have actually become important resources of interest. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement that 2009 appears to be in the sign of the crisis, at least at the beginning of the year, with major unresolved issues where the progress is small or insignificant, as he said. Among other things, he mentioned: Disarmament, where established nuclear powers are not exactly committed to cutting their nuclear arsenals, and where we are concerned about developments in countries like Iran. Norway is head of the so-called 7-country group for disarmament and non-proliferation. This group shall submit proposals to the forthcoming Conference of Supervisors for the non-proliferation agreement — a demanding work, in particular in view of the fact that the previous Conference of Supervisors almost ended in total failure. The United States and Russia have 95 pst. of the world's nuclear weapons. That's why it's in a dialogue between the two powers we can get into real nuclear disarmament. Also in this area, we put our trust in the new administration in Washington and in the new president, Barack Obama. NATO is 60 years old. There is some excitement about whether the forthcoming summit will take the initiative to change the strategic concept of the alliance. NATO has launched a process of a transatlantic charter, which is to first become a ‘Declaration on Alliance Security’. I think it's important for us that NATO takes one step further – and opens up the strategic concept. In addition to the fact that the new security reality, in order to call it, needs to be taken into account, it is also important that the alliance's nuclear strategy be addressed, as was otherwise stated by a unanimous foreign committee in the St.meld setting. No 27 for 2007-2008. It will also be an important signal for the forthcoming Conference of Supervisors. The declaration of human rights has also reached the age of 60. Again, it looks gloomy, unfortunately, not least the situation of women. The fight for human rights is about protecting the individual from underrepresentation and abuse, but also about ensuring the right to grow up and not die of hunger or birth or in childbirth. We look with horror at the sexualized assaults against women in East Congo – something worse I don't think the world has seen in terms of assaults against women. We are concerned that schools for girls are being closed, including on the Pakistani side of the Pakistani border. In Iran, the human rights situation has been exacerbated recently, and I will refer to what Dagfinn Højbråten said here earlier today, where he mentioned all the executions that have been in Iran over the past few weeks, including the executions of minors. The attacks on civilians in Gaza and Sri Lanka are totally unacceptable. Both Israel and the Sri Lankan government are said to have violated international law, including the rule of law. The Geneva Convention, by not allowing humanitarian aid, aid organisations and journalists to enter the areas. Human rights are universal and cannot be culturally related. We can, for example: do not accept that neither elites, state leaders nor, for that matter, family heads use culture as an argument for violence against women, whether in the case of forced marriage, sexual mutilation, or to refuse schooling. Unfortunately, the challenges are great and many, and I think it's time to focus even more on women's human rights issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e901	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave relatively high attention to the ongoing global financial crisis. It is positive that, in this way, the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicates that the international economy and trade are also, to the greatest extent, foreign policy. A global financial crisis can quickly lead to a global economic recession. Reduced international trade and economic stagnation can lead to people losing faith in the future, which in turn creates a bed of social unrest. Last October, the Minister of Finance stated that Norway would not be particularly affected by the financial crisis. According to her, the Norwegian financial market has regulations that ensure us against major fluctuations. The Minister of Finance, however, had to break these words very quickly, and only a few weeks later the Government promoted a financial package that guaranteed banks access of DKK 350 billion in capital. What we can see is that concerns in financial markets far away from our own quickly have consequences for us too. Bankruptcies or state acquisitions of financial institutions and insurance companies create fears in the market and eliminate confidence between the actors. This leads initially to higher money market interest rates, but in its extreme form it also leads to a lack of credit and a drought of capital. The answer to such challenges is not the introduction of new national regulations, but global guidelines and global supervision. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the international economic crisis has led to a serious deterioration in the idea of – and belief in – the infallibility of the market. Unfortunately, there are just such time-consuming, but little-thought-out claims that will make it very difficult to arrive at global driving rules for the financial industry. Firstly, the claim made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs presupposes that the market has failed, and secondly, that there are countries and governments which practice a policy in which the market is an infallible starting point — understood by the claim that the United States is such a country. The Foreign Minister's claim is incorporated into the series of similar statements by other red-green government councils. Development Minister Solheim recently stated that market liberalism is dead, the Minister of Finance said to the NRK that the market economy has fallen, and the Prime Minister tries to personify market forces by showing the mantra that the market is a good serve, but a bad master. The assumption for all these claims is that there must be countries that practice a policy of market governance on their own — implicitly: the United States is such a country. With all possible respect, the United States is not such a country. The causes of the financial crisis will certainly be debated in academic circles for years, but one thing we can state immediately: the US financial market is not unregulated. In the United States, there are only more than 2,000 people at federal level who have as their sole task the regulation of the market. This comprehensive regulatory body has even been presented to the members of the Financial Committee during its visit to the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. The challenge with the US money and credit market is not primarily a lack of regulation, but that regulation is uncoordinated and has conflicting mandates. Furthermore, the supervision is not independent and is therefore subject to political review. A much more accurate analysis of the causes of the financial crisis will be based on the enormous deficit in the US in the state budget and the trade balance, artificially low interest rates and the American lack of willingness to save. In other words, the United States survived. In such a context, it can equally be claimed that such imbalances cannot be maintained over a long period of time – and that the market will correct, which it did to a very great extent. It is very important to make the right diagnosis before printing out medicine. In order to introduce correct global mechanisms and effective supervision that can prevent imbalances and collapse, it is essential to have a fundamental understanding of the macroeconomic contexts that led to the financial crisis. Nor should we forget that Norway also contributes to creating imbalances in the world economy. Our gigantic surplus on the trade balance means that others have to take the corresponding deficit. Furthermore, our huge pension fund helps to push the prices of shares and bonds into the weather. In other words, it is important that we do not throw the baby out with the bath water, and the baby in this context is the market economy. The market economy has brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, it has quadrupled our own standard of living in 40 years, it has contributed to innovation and willingness to take risks. In particular, the market economy has contributed to the spread of power and political freedoms. The market economy has done far more to combat poverty than all the world's assistance will ever be able to do. I agree with the Foreign Minister's call that the many packages of measures that are now being introduced around the world should not be designed to contribute to increased protectionism. I find it strange, however, that the Foreign Minister is once again drawing up the United States as an example of horror. I would like to remind you of the following: the Norwegian Government has contributed NOK 2 billion in increased equity to the management company Argentum. A few days later, it became clear that Argentum is also investing abroad. Minister of Industry Brustad immediately stated that this was not the intention, and that the government wanted to lead the money to be invested in Norway, i.e. protectionism. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance stated that tax relief is not a good crisis response because much of the money could be spent on buying imported goods — a protectionist approach. The government’s stated objective in relation to the banking sector is that the increased credit should in particular benefit Norwegian enterprises and jobs — including some form of protectionism. I would remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that our own agricultural policy is also a form of protectionism, no matter how noble the motives may be. Norway has no proud tradition of promoting free trade. Historically, we have benefited from other countries' markets, while we ourselves have not liquidated monopolies until we have been forced to do so through international agreements. Nor is our conduct in WTO negotiations an example of follow-up. So I want to ask the Foreign Minister to sweep at his own door, before he complains to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e950	The Foreign Minister began by mentioning the crises and the unresolved problems we are facing. It could make any pessimistic. At the same time, however, he also re-emphasised belief in political will in international cooperation and trade. I share that view. The financial crisis has affected everyone, both nations, businesses and citizens. The authorities of all parts of the world are now implementing measures that are more coordinated and coordinated than before. There is a recognition of the restriction of the free market in governing itself and the collapse of financial markets. The policy must re-enter. I can report from an arena I attend, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For approx. 14 days ago, an opinion was drafted there to address the financial crisis. The focus here was on reforming the global financial system, international cooperation on effective regulation and governance of the financial market and stronger democratic control by governments and parliaments. Financial institutions need to be subject to stronger transparency and control requirements, action was taken to stimulate employment through public funding, and in particular focused on ensuring the social and economic rights of individuals, employee rights and the social security network. Tax havens must be subject to control. Incentives would be banned in the financial market as premiums for high risk and short-term profit. There was a consensus from right to left in the Parliamentary Assembly, representing 47 countries. It's a joyful political change of scene. There was no reference to privatisation, competition and liberalisation. I allow myself to use the example of the financial crisis as an expression of a belief in renewed political democratic control and governance. But there's no easy, short way out of the crisis. Norway and the Nordic countries should be able to make a useful contribution to the international debate. The Nordic model has a good sound base. It is understandable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not spend much time on EU and EEA matters as it comes to a later presentation. However, before the next EU and EEA statement, negotiations on the EEA Financial Mechanism are likely to be completed. I would therefore also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the fact that Norway has proposed to set up its own fund to promote decent working life and tripartite cooperation, which the Foreign Affairs Committee has been involved in on repeated occasions and on which the social partners in Norway have made representations. The Norwegian and Nordic labour market model is a good export product that can reduce economic and social disparities in Europe. While I am in the EEA, I would also like to express my solidarity and solidarity with our brothers in Iceland, who have reduced their economy dramatically due to the financial crisis. It's almost unreal with the street demonstrations on Iceland that have resulted in a government departure. This has to be solved by the Icelanders themselves, but Norway, together with others, must stand up for Iceland in a time of crisis and help the country and its citizens to get out of economic difficulties. It has also contributed to an EU debate in Iceland with possible links to euro cooperation. I want the Icelandics to be happy with that debate, and then the conclusion shows how much we are going to go in and assess the impact on Norway. The situation in the Middle East is tragic, with unimaginable human suffering. In a comment in the Newspaper today on the elections in Israel, it says: «The hope of peace and stability lost». I would say that the possibilities may be weakened, but the hope must always be with us. We're going to look forward, but we can't let war acts pass through uncomplained. Of course, we condemn Hamas' missile attack against civilian targets in Israel, and understand Israel's right to defend its citizens, but I neither understand nor accept the widespread and totally disproportionate use of power and arms against the people of Gaza. Infringements against the civilian population violate international law. Preventing press and humanitarian relief organisations is completely unacceptable. I demand more of countries that say they confess to democratic and humanitarian principles. The war is a setback to the possibility of peace and freedom – bad news for both Palestinians and Israelis. This has not made Israel safer or Hamas weaker. The most important thing now is humanitarian aid to the civilian population. At the same time, we must try to get the political process and negotiations going again. Negotiations must include all parties, including Hamas. The United States and other Arab countries in the region are welcomed. It is now important to have a Palestinian-based assembly that needs to receive international support without pre-requisite requirements, but where negotiations and practices are crucial. There must be concessions by both parties, but I would like to stress the fundamental reason: the occupation of Palestinian territories by Israel. A real two-state solution is the only possibility of peace and stability in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e965	The Minister for Foreign Affairs addresses many important issues in his presentation. But one theme was completely absent, and that was the energy situation in Europe. Not in one word was the dramatic situation faced by many EU countries when the gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine flared up again. And when one sees the consequences of what has happened, namely that several Eastern European countries are considering relaunching abandoned nuclear power plants to secure their energy supply, this should be a topic that also engaged the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The party has been positive about looking at new technologies in nuclear power, but the nuclear power plants, among others. Bulgaria is looking at, is by no means new technology. There is a type of energy production we want to avoid, and therefore the foreign minister should have focused more on this. The Norwegian Government has been given the honour of having been in dialogue with the EU to try to clean up the situation in the short term and that Norway sent observers to ensure that the agreement was maintained. That's good. However, the long lines in how Norway should be an energy supplier and cooperate with the EU on energy supply were not present in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation. Norway accounts for a large proportion of energy imports in the EU. We have a lot of resources. Then it is a little worrying when you hear that the Prime Minister and others in the Government indicate that we cannot increase exports to the EU in the short term because everything we produce is sold. The point of the Progress Party is that we have very large resources on a Norwegian base that have not yet been produced. We need to act as a credible and accountable manager of these resources, especially the gas resources. The EU must know that we are a reliable supplier they may want to negotiate with, and that they are willing to pay a little more for a gas they know comes day after day, so that they do not come in the situation they have with Russia. It will come back to Norway and make it possible for the EU to be a little closer to Norway in such situations than they would if they had the impression that Norway felt no responsibility or obligation to help the EU in the energy situation in which they are. While the EU is strongly committed to renewable energy, all delegations from European countries to Norway place emphasis on Norway as a gas exporter to the EU before talking about climate commitments. If the energy supply fails in these countries, society will also fail. That's what we see when Bulgaria and other countries consider starting up old, abandoned nuclear power plants. I would like the Foreign Minister to focus a little more on that, and that one got the oil and energy minister to cut through a little bit more on the seminar at the Red-Greens in the Energy and Environment Committee. So it's the same parties that talk about drawing up a management plan to be able to extract resources in the northern regions, that travel up to the Lofoten and the West Pole, and they're agreeing to start people's reactions against anything happening up there in the future. It does not provide good predictability for the Norwegian petroleum industry. Nor does it provide predictability to our European neighbours and friends about how Norway will act as a supplier of energy. I also record that the Secretary of State is looking forward to a new president in the United States. I have been visiting, for example, recently. Washington DC and can confirm that there's a lot to enjoy. I think President Obama will be good for the United States. For us who are American friends, both in good times and in bad times, it is good to see that the American star flashes again both sharply and clearly in the world debate and in world politics. I hope that when we from Norway start talking to President Obama and his team, especially around the climate, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised, we will do so in a realistic way – that we are busy showing results, and that, as we have seen from the Minister for the Environment a little too often, we will not come up with many great visions and symbolic actions without the results being there. My impression after talking to both congressmen and people who are closely related to President Obama's energy and climate policy is that the United States is not going to have a climate policy that is moving industrial jobs out of the country. They're not going to work for special American restrictions, but they're going to work for a global approach where the results count. I did not meet any politicians in the United States who are impressed by the Mongstad project, which we boast of in Norway, until there are results. The saying: Show us the results and we will be impressed! So far, only Norway boasts about what we do, but we have nothing to point to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e984	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation on Tuesday. It was a very good and solid review of many important themes. The President of the Newspaper yesterday said that the statement confirms ‘that the government has a high level of ambition for Norway’s interests and role in the international arena’. I fully agree with that. I want to include two themes in my article. One is the relationship with the mission in Afghanistan. The second is Nordic cooperation. In recent times, there has been a lot of negative focus on our mission in Afghanistan. The negative focus also affects our soldiers, commanders and civilians who work day and night to create a better society for the Afghans, often at risk of their own lives. Not least their families are hit at home. There have been allegations that what we are doing in Afghanistan is wasted and wasted with taxpayers' money. I believe this is completely wrong. I believe these are claims that must be seen as the experiences and frustration of individuals in their own service in Afghanistan, not as an expression of what we do, being useless and wasted with money. The reality is that most of the soldiers serving in Afghanistan agree that what we are doing has great positive effects on the population. In fact, great progress has been made in the years we've been there. New roads are being built, new schools are being established, the girls can go to school again, there is a boom in commerce and business, people get electricity and clean water – to name something. It is the soldiers who have helped to facilitate the security situation, which has made this possible. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made clear in his statement that our commitment to Afghanistan is firm. There are many reasons why it is important to continue this exposure. Indeed, by contributing to the stability and development of the Afghan population, we are also involved in taking care of Norwegian interests. We take care of our national interests both by combating terrorist groups that can also attack us here at home, and by living up to our obligations towards NATO and the UN. Afghanistan is a long-term project. We must not sink into depression because we do not get to a faster development than the one we see today, or we would have thought when we started. But no one had any illusion that this assignment would be easy and quick when we agreed to assist. I believe that it is now important that we do not lose focus even if some things take a little longer to solve than we thought at first. We've got to get out of here! And we have to be willing to try some new tracks, both in Afghanistan and not least in the relationship with Pakistan, if we're going to succeed. So move on to Nordic cooperation. It was with great interest that I read the report by former defence ministers and foreign minister Thorvald Stoltenberg on Nordic cooperation on foreign and security policy that came this week. I will praise Stoltenberg for his report, which I think addresses several interesting themes that need to be characterised as both modern and forward-looking. I think there are several good reasons why we should continue to intensify our work in the Nordic region in the field of security policy. Perhaps the most important reasons are that we stand together stronger than each other, and that together we can meet challenges in a better way than each one of us – whether in the north or in the military area otherwise. It also makes us more likely to get more out of the money that we have at our disposal. However, it is important to stress that Nordic cooperation in defence and security policy already has good dynamics and covers a wide range of issues. There is considerable convergence of safety policy assessments and interests between the Nordic countries, and cooperation works well despite different anchoring in the EU and NATO. There is also another thing that is quite clear: cooperation in the Nordic countries should not be rather than cooperation with NATO, the UN and the EU today, but should be added. I hope that the proposals that have been put forward will be discussed in depth in the other countries, in the Nordic Council and here in the UK.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1014	The Secretary of State's statement was a good account, and he addressed several issues. I'd like to take a few defence considerations around the northern regions, which have been given some kind of new topicality. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that the Arctic has been rediscovered, pointing to what might be called the international rediscovery of these areas. He goes on to say that the northern regions are the government's most important strategic bet area. Well, when it comes to the defense, it can hardly be right. The Progress Party, on the other hand, has for a number of years pointed to the government's lack of defence efforts in these areas. The closure of Olavsværm is a good example of this – a closure that will eventually show was a serious mistake. I'm not going to re-examine that debate now, but I think the closure of Olavsverm is a good example of the government's Northern Territory operation being a lot of rhetoric. But let's literally lift our eyes up. Climate change has led to melting and opens up increased activity in the area. New transport routes are being opened, and large tankers from Europe will soon be on a regular route in the new passages. New large, ice-breaking tankers are under construction just to be able to pass here. Some even believe that the new passages are comparable to, for example, the new passages. Suez Canal or Panama Canal with regard to time-saving. It is also a fact that large, undiscovered petroleum deposits are below the seabed in these areas, but most probably in Russian territory. Here comes a new perspective: Russia and Russia's enormously long coast along the area that is now opening up and that must be defended militarily. With Russian skepticism and suspicion, this can be a challenge for other countries, such as the United States and Canada, but of course also for Norway. It's probably just a matter of time when we'll see much bigger Russian military activity, not least marine activity. This can be a challenge in many ways, primarily for the Norwegian Navy and Air Force. But all the new perspectives in the northern regions and the Arctic are not entirely new thoughts – we know it would come. It could therefore be interesting for everyone to know what thoughts and practical measures the government has and intends to take in relation to this new one. I want to challenge the Foreign Minister to share these thoughts with us. Once we have also registered that even China, Japan, South Korea and not least the EU have shown their interest in the area, this shows that the interest is enormous and can get ugly perspectives. We're now talking about our neighbourhoods, and to quote the Foreign Minister, this is where we have our national main interests, and that's where we need to have our attention. This is where we need to seek partnership and close cooperation with neighbours, allies and other present actors. Here I fully share the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is important to rework and strive to have a good relationship with Russia in the area. It may become crucial for the activities to remain peaceful and orderly. In the middle of this, we must not, to a large extent, forget our relationship with NATO, which has been and is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy after the war. NATO is present in the area and has never left us, even though someone would like to say that. Our relationship with the United States and Canada can be further strengthened, which I look at with great satisfaction, also in view of increased Russian activity along our coast and the fact that the northern regions are of great military importance to Russia – as an exercise area and as a base for their sea-based nuclear forces. I must therefore finally ask the Foreign Minister again what the Government will do to increase our presence in the north, and whether it is believed that the North Region bet also involves greater military presence at sea, in the air and on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1037	In this foreign debate, we can add the economic crisis to the range of the major common challenges facing the world. The financial crisis came quickly and has called for action. It is encouraging to see how countries by country have acted to prevent the total collapse of financial systems and that measures have moved in the same direction. However, the economic crisis must not overstep the other major challenges, such as climate change and poverty reduction. No action can be taken against these either. They must, as far as possible, become part of the measures to get the economy back on track. These global challenges have one thing in common: they all require strong policy action, and they all require stronger and more committed cooperation between countries. When policy is needed, it also creates the possibility of policy, nationally and internationally. The Foreign Minister pointed to the encouraging opportunities created by a new administration in the United States. That's right. But it is also important that the outgoing administration had to put ideology aside and go so heavily into that it actually nationalized large parts of the financial sector when it became necessary to prevent a furrowing of Wall Street. We see clear signs of the same effect in another area, energy and climate. The need for energy security in own renewable energy resources forces conservative politicians to put aside an out-of-date ideology. Now there is a demand for governments to invest in alternative energy, even among politicians in the United States who traditionally want the least possible state. This gives hope that pressing realities – economic collapse, growing unemployment and a threatening climate crisis – can create ground for what we now need: stronger and wiser market governance and stronger and more committed international cooperation on both common legislation and joint action. If we are to succeed, international cooperation bodies need to change, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his presentation. They must reflect today's economic realities, not the post-war realities. The new, growing economies must have their rightful place at the table, including in the United Nations bodies. Norway must be a strong spokesman for this. There is a risk that the economic crisis may arouse live protectionist tendencies. We see it in the United States to protect our own car industry. We also see it in France, although the internal market must be a protection against such barriers to trade, which will only aggravate this crisis. We must not just be a clear spokesman for such thinking. We also need to do what we can to get the WTO negotiations going again. A new WTO agreement will provide evidence of the international system's ability to act in a time of crisis. It would also be a contribution to the reversal of negative economic developments, and I am pleased that the Foreign Minister decided that this is the government's policy. The economic crisis has given the concept of ‘national sovereignty’ a completely different meaning. Even the world’s largest economy has limited its national sovereignty, when it has made itself dependent on loans from the world’s richest country — and vice versa. This recognition can only lead to a reasonable conclusion: stronger and more committed international cooperation. The representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken said that there is also a need for new ideas about Norway's international commitment, and he was pleased with the proposal of Thorvald Stoltenberg for stronger Nordic cooperation on both civil and security policy challenges. It is gratifying that representatives of a party who, when we talk about European cooperation, are very concerned about protecting our formal right of self-determination, see more pragmatically on this issue in Nordic context. Because there is no doubt that the proposal contained in the report would mean a real renunciation of sovereignty in such a central area as our defence and security policy, if it were put to work. But it's necessary if we're to get to this kind of cooperation, which makes sense from a lot of points of view. Moreover, with regard to the proposal for a Nordic stabilisation force, it is already at the heart of the EU’s response force, where Norway participates with, among others, Norway. Sweden and Finland. The impact of these proposals, if put into practice, is that Norway is increasingly woven into EU cooperation, and Sweden is even stronger into NATO cooperation, although both countries choose the kitchen entrance instead of the main entrance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1063	Norway has been well represented in Afghanistan for many years. That's where our Norwegian girls and boys have done a hell of a job. They have helped stabilise the country and provide the people of Afghanistan with security they have not had. Norway has also helped with, among other things. school, police, roads, etc., precisely for the everyday life down there to be as good as possible. When we then know that we have been there for many years, we also know that gradually this has led to wear damage both on our soldiers and on material. Material can easily be replaced, but it's worse with our girls and boys. We're now down on the ground, and it's been recently sent down voluntary Home Guard soldiers. These, of course, also do a very good job, but the primary job of Home Protection is to protect key Norwegian social institutions in Norway in a crisis situation. Of course, the Progress Party is proud to have home security teams qualified for foreign missions, but this describes the precarious situation of the Norwegian army departments. At the same time, when we know that only a small part of Norwegian youth is outsourced to the protection service, and that the average number of days of practice for those in prison is only 17 days, this shows the seriousness of this situation. This means that the number of foreign missions for the individual, both a soldier and a commander, is too large. The desirable thing is the ratio of 1:5, i.e. a period out and five periods at home, to care for himself, his family and friends and to take care of his job, whether it's now in Defense or in Civil. Now this ratio is 1:2 or 1:3 and for some specialists it's down to 1:1. You can ask yourself, is this sound? What needs to be done is, among other things, more means of defense, so that we can take in more soldiers, and that in addition these are trained enough, so that we have more to choose from. In that case, the load in the case of a foreign operation will be at an acceptable level. Finally, there can be no doubt that the Progress Party is in favour of continued involvement in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1075	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation. Today, I want to highlight the challenges in the field of justice in a foreign policy perspective. The world gets smaller, we travel more, and the borders are more open on land and online. This gives us new challenges in the fight against crime. Cross-border crime causes huge economic losses to individuals and society. It can undermine safety and stability in everyday life, and it is advanced and professionalised to such an extent that it can be extremely complicated to reveal. This means that effective countermeasures must be developed at all times. It is important that Norway participates in international cooperation in the field of justice. We've organized crime, with branches abroad. We have gangs in Norway who wash money in other countries. And the police are investigating in these days issues where the North is involved in crime in Norway and Brazil. We have major drug issues with backers abroad, and we have Nordics who are in prison abroad for drug law offences. Norway has just deployed several police officers abroad to cooperate with local police authorities to detect, among other things, the situation. trafficking in drugs and trafficking in human beings to Norway. In the news yesterday, we heard that you had an increase of 50 pst. in the case of burglaries in Norway, and that much of it could be caused by foreign gangs. This gives us challenges in investigating these issues, as more police districts are involved. Therefore, it is so important that the government has increased the appropriations for the police, including the border police, the Økokrim, the Police Foreign Unit and the PST. These are important contributions to combating this type of crime. Another challenging field is trafficking in human beings. The cases are arduous to investigate, and it is essential that the women and men who are exposed to this have the courage and opportunity to testify on these matters, so that you can take the backers. In order for them to witness, we need to provide them with the protection they need and the opportunity to get other work they can feed on. After the criminalisation of sex purchases, which came into force in the New Year, we can ask ourselves where it has been of the 30-40 Nigerian women who stood at Karl Johan and offered their services. Many of them have traveled to another country, and some of them, and several others, still work in hiding in Norway as prostitutes, among others. from apartments. This presents the police with other challenges of getting in touch with women and getting to the backers. In connection with the Bill on Criminalising Sex Purchases, the Government also launched a series of measures for prostitutes to improve their situation. But this is demanding work, and much remains. The government has also presented an action plan against trafficking in human beings containing a number of good measures to combat this and to help those who are exposed to it. The Internet has also given us major challenges, including: in the case of pictures of child abuse. We have heard about the case that started with a young boy in Bergen contacting the police and telling them that he had been contacted by a person he was going to meet, who turned out to be much older than he was looking for, and in fact he was also a policeman. This case has now been extended to several countries — England, Italy, the United States and Pakistan — and more than 1.3 million have been detected. pictures of abuse against children. This is enormous and shows that cooperation between countries is important in order to achieve results. The government has been involved in this and contributed financially by Interpool getting money to further develop systems to detect videos of child abuse. This is very important to find the children who are being assaulted, as well as to expose the rearmen and those who have committed assault. We have several fields of justice that involve foreign cooperation, including the transport of foreign prisoners for compensation in the home country. Here we have cooperation with the EU, and also with individual countries, in order to transfer prisoners for settlement in the home country. This is a demanding job, as the country of origin is not always so eager to accept their compensation. Another area that is very important is child abductions, where the department works across to get good solutions. In summary, the field of justice is a field where it is important to work across borders and to cooperate. The government has worked a lot on this, and has launched a number of measures to meet these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1101	On Tuesday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave us a very good account of the main issues of Norwegian foreign policy. I particularly want to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for his comprehensive presentation on the northern regions. As the Council of State said, this is the Government's main strategic field, and I don't think it's going to be any less important in the years to come. The northern regions are an area that will undoubtedly become more focused as the ice melts in the Arctic. Then it becomes important to think again about how we can meet the challenges we get. It was therefore gratifying to read the report of former state councillor Thorvald Stoltenberg and his visions of Nordic cooperation. The suggestions that Stoltenberg makes here are exciting and visionary, and I think we should use these as a starting point for the further discussion of the north, and how we, together with our neighbours, can develop our cooperation in this area in a peaceful way. I believe that the northern regions and the possibilities we have here are not fully explored in any way. What is certain, however, is that over the next 10–15 years, we will see a sharp increase in business activity, including in particular: increased international maritime traffic in this area. The fact that we in the Nordic region can then go together on monitoring this area, I believe will be very positive, and in a good way contribute to both how we cooperate in the Nordic region, and to the very highest degree how we cooperate with the other Arctic states, and especially Russia. In a chronicle in Nordlys, February 10, editor-in-chief Stoltenberg’s report calls ‘an historic step northwards’. I fully agree with that, but it assumes that we follow this up in the time that is coming, and that we have an open mind in order to implement the points that Thorvald Stoltenberg draws up in his report. In my view, it cannot be problematic that the Nordic countries have a somewhat different relationship with NATO and the EU. Finally, let me just stress that in the years to come, it will be vitally important how we relate to the rapidly changing situation in the north and in the Arctic. If we are able to act proactively and in cooperation with our good neighbours, we will be able to meet developments in these areas in a good way. I am also pleased with the visions that the Foreign Minister and the Government are drawing up for our northern regions, and for the commitment that is constantly being shown. The northern regions have never in history had such a focus and such opportunities as what we now have. I hope that this is kept up and that year after year we can see the results of the great work that has now started.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1120	I have a slightly different approach than the previous speaker. Although I don't entirely disagree with everything he said, I think that if you go down a little bit and look at the development of the entire Barents area, this is characterized by challenges that are significant. The population goes down, the real life in large areas in these areas is characterized by stagnation and lack of progress and clarification. So our challenges when discussing north-eastern policy must take into account: what are we going to offer policy and business to these areas to address? It's our big challenge – more than bringing out the big words and the big views. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent an estimated one third of his presentation on the North Sea problem and the challenges we face, and I feel that the Right and the Workers' Party are fairly close in the approach to these issues. It is also commendable that the Minister of Foreign Affairs went into both the US and EU strategy, so-called new strategies, on the Arctic. It may be understandable that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention the new Russian approach to these issues, where both President Medvedev and every leak from Ivanov have signaled quite strongly that when the National Security Council's strategy is presented at the end of this month, Arctic issues will have a far more prominent place, so prominent that we have to go all the way back to the days of the old Soviet Union in order to get so much focus on these issues. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs views the concrete changes that we can make as a result of changing Russian policies and changing Russian focus, through the Russian approach. Because I think what we're going to meet is not just Russia and other major powers' interest in solving their future major energy challenge. It's going to be formidable, and Norway, as an energy storm power of rank, has to take on some greater commitments than the signals we've been willing to bring on the path on these issues so far. I think in an area, a gigantic sea area, where we don't have any Norwegian economic zone in place, attention can be significant. It becomes a geopolitical area of rank. It is possible that we want it to be, but we also need to take into account in order to have a political course on these issues, where we should also consider that the main issue of this approach is resource use, and in the first series of energy and our ability to be a supplier of energy to, among other things. Our friends in Europe – or whether we are going to be like the last signals given from all three of today’s government parties – call for both the Norwegian oil industry, Europe’s oil industry and the world’s oil industry to sit down and wait for these parties to decide what kind of drive we should take on this issue. Then I have certain hopes that the forthcoming Svalbard message will become as wide as possible. Well, it's in another department, but it's perfectly clear that the questions that this message must address are our presence, our authority, our activity and our settlement in this area for the future. We are faced with some very urgent questions also regarding our Svalbard policy and our Svalbard strategy. Among other things, we see: that Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani needs new areas to extract its production in. The preliminary signals given by local authorities are that it may be difficult to offer the company what they want to achieve. These are crucial issues, too, in our north-eastern policy and approach, which deserve to be addressed in a broad way in the forthcoming Svalbard Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1133	There has been a lot of positive talk about the Foreign Minister's presentation. Despite both conflicts, financial crisis and poverty challenges, there are many positive developments. Globalisation has helped to lift millions of people out of poverty, and we see that democracy and the market economy are winning out in many places in the world. However, I would like to focus on the many millions who still live in countries where regimes suppress political and civil rights. Those who live in a democracy and in a country that has fought for its freedom have a special responsibility to stand up for democracy and human rights. I have to admit that I slipped into the chair when I heard the post of the former leader of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, where she said that we have to be particularly careful about human rights issues – we have to be particularly careful! If there is one area where we are to stand upright and speak with a clear voice, it is precisely human rights, the fight for human rights and the fight against oppression and harassment. This is not an area where you have to take the filter forks on. Here we need to stand up for the values we believe in. I myself enjoy sitting in the Václav Havel's International Cuba Committee, working for democracy and respect for human rights in Cuba. I have met many former political prisoners, and I have met many family members of people who are still in prison. There have been strong meetings with both family members and individuals who have been in prison for only one reason: because they stand up for democracy, because they stand up for human rights, because they stand up for freedom of speech. They need to feel like we're working with them. There are still more than 220 political prisoners in Cuba, and there have been few material advances in the human rights situation in Cuba in recent years. Well, it's true that more people might be able to buy a toaster, a microwave or a mobile phone if they earn well, but there's no substitute for democracy and freedom of expression. After the red-green government took over, what is called a normalization of the relationship with Cuba has happened. It's about two things. It is now that political oppositional access to the Internet is denied through the Norwegian Embassy in Havana, and it is a matter of no longer inviting political opposition to the 17th May celebration. The right has challenged the Minister of Foreign Affairs why this has been done. It's because you're busy with dialogue. When, in several written questions, I have challenged the Minister for Foreign Affairs on what has been achieved through this, we get a very vague speech back. I think it's absolutely excellent with dialogue. Dialogue is important and dialogue is crucial. But you also have to expect results, progress, and I do not think you have been able to prove the situation in Cuba. I could imagine challenging the former leader of the Central Party, Åslaug Haga, to elaborate on what she believes must be addressed with particular care in human rights matters, for example. is the premise on the basis of which the commitment to human rights has been reduced, among other things. Cuba.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1150	I join those who said that it was a very broad statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He covered very much. The financial crisis and the shift we've seen in the United States with Obama were covered quite thoroughly, and so is the situation in Iceland. I think we who are sitting in this room, can't imagine what the situation is up there. After all, it is a country that has almost gone bankrupt by basing its well-being on a sand-based industry. It has reasonably dramatic consequences. The danger of this is that it develops protectionist currents, which many people have been involved in. It is then played with quite dangerous forces. Obama was far inside that track half especially in the election campaign, and it's going to be exciting to see if he can make that progress forward. He doesn't have quite simple relationships to play at the Senate and the Representatives' House. I also notice that in this room we talk like it's an American issue, but it's actually a quite Norwegian issue. We have heard quotations earlier in the debate today that show that there are clear trends in the same direction here in Norway. We might say that we have a lot of knowledge about what protectionism will lead to in the situation we are today. The 1930s were a good example. Now there were many things that went in the direction of the world going down at the time, but there are also quite strong forces that work for protection in the situation we are today. And if that snowball starts rolling, we're bad out there. Norway is a small, open country in this context and is quite vulnerable. The Foreign Minister spoke about the infallibility of the market. I really don't think that should be a topic. I don't think anyone has believed in the infallibility of the market. The market has to be monitored, and it has to have certain regulations. Rather, one should have the focus there, because the market must actually be there. It'll always be there, whether you like it or not. There's just questions about what forms it'll be in there. This is no alternative to an efficient allocation of resources in the world. And then we're on the topic that's interesting, because there's been a lot of talk about the need for overall international driving rules. But I heard no indication from the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether any initiative would be taken here, what Norway would contribute to getting that kind of game rules. There is no easy job to do, because the more detailed you make such regulations, the more opportunities you give to those who want to find ways around them. There's a lot of evidence that the situation in the United States shows that. I would therefore like to hear a little about what initiatives the Foreign Minister has been planning to take to move forward in that process, so that we can keep the best in the market without cultivating the weaknesses of the market that we have seen and that we now see the results of. So a little bit back to protectionism. I also jumped in the chair when I heard the former leader of the Central Party, Åslaug Hagas, because there was talk about quotas and alternative ways to do this that would ensure that you avoid the strongest right. Then I can imagine saying that the more bilateral agreements you get in this market, the more leeway you give for the strongest. And the less overarching and well-regulated systems and markets you have in this area, the more play rights you give to the strongest. And the WTO is a good example of something that Norway is totally dependent on has to work very well, so protectionism must be avoided. In this context, we can take a little thought: what if oil-dependent countries start imposing customs duties on oil? The idea should not be completely distant for us. The oil-importing world would solve two problems at the same time: the climate crisis is a major challenge and the trade balance is a major challenge. But I am reasonably sure that at least it would not promote Norwegian agricultural interests if that were to happen. It would have quite dramatic consequences for the price of oil. So here, Norway is based on completely different ideas than what we have to promote internationally in order to live well, and I would ask: is the Foreign Minister as scared by his government partner as I am?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1163	Because less than a year ago, the study showed that free people are happier than others. General Social Survey conducts a major survey every two years asking: what makes you and your family happy? When you took away other variables like, for example, income, family status and education, a clear conclusion was reached: Free people are more happy. An article in the City Journal also claims that freedom of choice is important for happiness. An experiment in the state of Connecticut examined the importance of freedom of choice among residents in a nursing home. And the results were – for some – alarming. They found that the residents actually got happier by being able to make more choices of their own. They became more active, they got happier – and they actually lived longer. Nor is it the case that economic freedom leads to less happiness because it makes people insecure or stressful. What's interesting is that freedom of choice only brings happiness if it is limited by morals and the ability to distinguish right from wrong. In other words, the core of what I'm starting my post with is that freedom under responsibility actually makes people happy. I fully agree with all those who have praised the Minister for Foreign Affairs for having made a very good statement – that is what I intend to do. I want to begin with the signs of globalisation. Millions of people have been brought out of poverty – thanks to just globalisation. As a result, we are even stronger in the millennium of democracy this year than we have ever done before. There is greater respect for human rights in the world today than ever before. And the market economy itself thrives in a financial crisis like this. The good examples are Korea and Taiwan, where economic growth has led to stable democracies with great respect for human rights. In Obama's campaign there were several alarming signs of protectionism. I doubt that it will be implemented, because we know so well that protectionism leads to less economic growth – and economic growth leads to, with which I started my post, both freedom and happiness. But what you know is that protectionism is something that wins the world over. In Putin’s Russia, customs duties include: on imports of foreign used cars set up to screen Russian car production. We see the same trends elsewhere. We know that even President Sarkozy has wanted to promote French goods – and possibly draw it a little longer to apply to goods from the rest of the European Union. Let me just say that such a policy that once again puts protectionism on the agenda is flawed and will only make the financial crisis even deeper. For us – at least on the right-hand side – it is unthinkable to go back to the last major experiment in protectionism, namely «Smooth-Haley». One sees the insane effects of US tariffs and customs tariffs, and not least how it was countered by the same means from Europe. Thus, the great depression ended up lasting from 1929 in the United States to the US entry into World War II in 1941. It was thanks – largely – to political struggles. Let's do everything we can to avoid those losses. Let us stand strong within freedom and thus also build up under the market economy. In conclusion, let me just say once again what I think is the worst quote of the day, namely that we have to proceed with particular care in relation to human rights – from the representative Haga. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs too will be able to respond vigorously. For what Norway has to do, including as a small country, is to stand up for all the people who are fighting for human rights and democracy. We can't and can't shake.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1178	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1181	We have to go especially carefully in relation to quotation practices, but it will well Åslauga Haga come back to, I think. In a reply earlier today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked questions about the interpretation of the Swedish Government’s decision. I think that is a little unreasonable to demand from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is probably a question that should be addressed to me, so I use the opportunity to answer it. Then I can immediately say that there should be some difference between the message that I had earlier in the debate and the decisions that I myself have been making in our organs. What I tried to explain is the difference between different types of boycott measures and the fact that we cannot have one principle for which measures are appropriate in all situations. So SV has been in favour of a consumer boycott of Israeli goods. SV has also addressed different other measures, such as: the work of an international arms embargo, and in the future to do something about Norwegian investment policy in relation to Israel and companies which in various ways contribute to the occupation of Palestinian territory. This differs from, for example: a boycott of all economic and political relationships, which we believe would be unwise, because it is important to maintain both dialogue and various types of contact and contact with Israel. The reason why we are engaged in boycotting agents is that one crucial reason for what happened on the Gaza Strip last month, and the continuing occupation and lack of progress in the Middle East peace process, to the seventh and last, is not least a lack of strong enough international pressure against the government of Israel. Therefore, the work to obtain clear reactions is important for SV. So is the fact that the issue of consumer boycott is a challenge the party has addressed to the population of Norway. It is not a question that we have put to the Stortinget in the form of a proposal for a decision or a process – it is the position of the party SV and not the policy of the red-green government. Then I just want to take a brief visit to the many posts from the right-hand parties on market liberalism. One discusses as if market liberalism were a strawman that the red-green parties have designed, and says that there is no one who has ever talked about the infallibility of the market. It is a very easy start from a debate that has always been about not unilaterally either having a market or not having a market, but which has been about having more or less market mechanisms in the world economy. And the right-hand side's policy of ever more market mechanisms has got a serious pull, a serious shot for the bow through what's happened lately. It's interesting, I think, there's so little willingness to admit that it has to have implications for the way the right-hand side has thought about economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1194	Three minutes is not much, but I will try to talk quickly and answer questions. To the representative of Solberg: I believe there is a broad consensus on the view of human rights in this Chamber, a long line in Norwegian policy, continuity in strategy. I respect disagreements, but will warn against constructing them, and create an impression that just doesn't reflect reality out there. There were three examples that I believe are on the verge — that Norway should have a different relativistic view of the death penalty, because there has been one case in China among thousands — and there are thousands too many — where Norway has not joined an EU protest. It's a misrepresentation of the picture. What Norway is doing in Cuba is in line with all, most EU countries — as the representative Sanner replied. What is the result of accessing Cuban authorities — influenced by dialogue? Well, I think it's pulling Cuba away from the communist dictatorship in the transition phase in which that country can now stand. As for Solheim State Council's journey to Burma, it has been famed by the UN team. He traveled with a representative of the right-wing government in Denmark, and was a very important signal that we want to influence the humanitarian work in that country. To the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I would say: Energy – yes, we could say a lot in this statement on energy. There is a lot about it in the big news about foreign policy, and it may be a topic we can pay more attention to in the European statement later in the session. To the representative, Width: Yes, in the northern regions we must have presence. I don't think the answers to Norway's challenge in the north are military. But that does not mean that we should not focus on military presence and relevant ability to operate as Norway, and with our allies. We have moved Joint Operational Headquarters from Stavanger to Bodø, where frigates now come to sea and are an important platform for a wide range of tasks. And we engage our NATO allies, as well as the representative and I saw when we were at the NATO seminar in Reykjavik. To Ivar Kristiansen I would say: Yes, Russia's strategy in the Arctic is to follow closely. And a lot of it can give cause for reflection. I interpret that Russia is in the process of formulating its Arctic policy, which is a much, much larger area than it is for us. Russia has the huge coastline. And the fact that the ice is pulling, raises big strategic questions. As far as international law is concerned, we have much the same view as Russia. It's positive, and we have to try to cement it. So to the representative Gundersen, am I as frightened by the Center Party as he was? Now I'm not so easily frightened. I'm focusing on what is the government's policy, where the Center Party is also involved. It is quite clear – we have to conclude the Doha negotiations. Finally, Mr Gitmark, the representative of Mr Skovholt: I am not going to be a sitter here either. But the point is that getting results in human rights policy is to be clear on the values and effective in the strategy, in the way we work in organisations, in the way we achieve our goals – and it is a political work where it is required to be focused, and not always to have full horn music and healthy trumpets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1215	The representative Sanner challenged me to elaborate on what I said about human rights in my post. It's clear enough if the representative just listened to what was actually said. I made it clear that you always have to think carefully about whether one at any time does enough with regard to human rights, and whether you do the right things in the field. I also say, "It is also important to use a clear language, when necessary. It is a problem that often becomes too diplomatic in the use of words in international contexts.’ But then I say that there's one area where you're going to go down, I've never used the word "cautious". I've never said that you should be careful about human rights. But I have said that you have to ‘come forward’, because it is only when you reach results. And if there's one thing I'm concerned about, it's that you have to achieve results in the human rights dialogue. As I say in my post, ‘If you want influence, you have to come forward’. But there should never be any doubt that human rights are the foundation on which we base our international policies. But I'm busy reaching goals, I'm not concerned with markings. If you look at the practical handling and follow-up of human rights, I note with great interest that in one of the areas where human rights are violated fundamentally and systematically in these days, namely in the Congo, Right does not show any interest in setting up. This is the case with the WTO, on which I have also been challenged. Let me be equally clear here: we need a WTO system. We need driving rules for international trade. So what we need is rules. The question is what rules we are going to develop, so that we operate within a framework of what is a fair trade. This debate, on the right, expresses itself as if you were going to have a world trade without regulation. It seems to me like a pussiness. Then I just have to mention that many people are asking the question I have asked today – and that is a question. I say, are you sure it's the right thing in today's situation to conclude a new round of negotiations in a system that has the foundation that a freest possible world trade is the most profitable? Let me just remind you that the social democrats in the EU have gone much further than I do when they say that we should take a break in the negotiations and change, to the best of the developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1232	First, as far as human rights are concerned, I am pleased that the representative Åslaug Haga makes clear what she meant in her statement. But when she so strongly emphasizes that she is concerned with results, I would say that my main point was that I miss the results of the so-called normalization one among others. performed in relation to Cuba. The only thing you've achieved is to shut down political oppositionals from 17th May and no longer give them access to the Internet. I miss concrete results. I also expect a clearer speech on both Cuba and elsewhere, of course. The second issue that Åslaug Haga raised was world trade. To claim that Right wants a world trade without rules – does not the representative Åslaug Haga follow in the hour? It's not like the Right is a supporter of a casino liberalism. We want a market economy that needs to be regulated to ensure competition and to ensure that consumers are protected. The right is in favour of policies following the economy. Once the economy is globalised, policy must follow suit. That is why we are followers of a Norwegian membership of the EU, which is the only area in the world where politics has followed the economy, and where we try to ensure regulation that goes across borders. When the representative Åslaug Haga suggests a break in the WTO negotiations, I fear that her desire for a stronger degree of protectionism is what lies behind it. And if there's something that could do a lot of damage in the financial crisis that's now going to hit the world, and that could lead the world from recession to depression, it's just such a protectionist attitude. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that what we need now is a continuation of WTO negotiations – ensuring that we get a freer trade, which should be regulated. It's in the interests of the small countries. If European social democrats agree with Åslaug Haga, I don't think it's particularly reassuring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1244	Åslaug Haga has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1247	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that we are in the process of constructing a debate in this Chamber that is not based on the realities of human rights. I very much agree with that. Through this debate, the right has not in any way succeeded in coming up with good basic examples of where they believe the Government is failing. So I just notice that it's interesting to conduct this kind of debate, but the Right has come nowhere to clarify what they think is the government's betrayal of human rights. When it comes to trade -- here it goes in different directions -- I just want to say that it's interesting that in these days everyone is talking about how to tame the globalised economy, so that we don't get a mountain and valley economy, which we've witnessed in later times, and which primarily goes beyond those who have the least. But there are very few who have the answers to what to do to tame this economy. [[President clubs]] Then we'll have to look at all the relationships. We also need to look at the trading system – it should be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1254	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1257	I have two comments. One concerns Åslaug Hagas' point that the right hand side, with the Right Party, has achieved nothing with its debate on human rights here today. Of that she gets to draw the conclusions she wants. However, I record that, through this debate – which has now been going on for four hours – most opposition parties have expressed concern about the lack of clarity of the Norwegian side regarding a number of human rights issues. Then you have to take that experience with you if you want to. Then Åslaug Haga has, on several occasions after the change of line earlier today, raised doubts about the Right's view of international intervention in Congo. In my one-minute comment on the change of line, I tried to point out that if something is to be achieved in the big country, with the big conflict and the considerable humanitarian disaster that exists, it requires quite considerable instruments. I imagine that the international community in this case has to put together a lot more intervention than we've seen now. I also stated that it might be pointless if not a political action goes hand in hand, where one from the international community – with the major acts on board – puts a coordinated and concerted pressure on the Congo and neighbouring countries. This link between a military and a political action will be a prerequisite. And if you succeed in that, you also have to be prepared in advance for it to be followed by a large-scale humanitarian action to clean up the disaster that exists in the civilian population. How Åslaug Haga manages to interpret it as that the Right is not interested in an international engagement in the Congo, to me, is a mystery. I've just asked Åslaug Haga and the Central Party whether they believe that the international prerequisites are there to achieve this coordinated political and military intervention. There are quite a few other assumptions Norway has to make — either during the current dimensioned intervention or in a major intervention later. It's up to our capabilities. We insist that our primary priority is to maintain what we do in Afghanistan. Then we may come back to what Norway will contribute if there is to be a major international action in Congo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1279	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2005]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1295	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1302	On 28 September 2007, the EEA Committee decided to incorporate the Water Directive into the EEA Agreement. A unanimous decision today gives its consent in accordance with the Constitution. The Water Directive covers watercourses, groundwater and coastal waters to one nautical mile outside the baseline. For specific pollutants, so-called priority substances, the Directive applies out to 12 nautical miles outside the baseline. The Directive will contribute to a more comprehensive management of water bodies and will have significant benefits for the protection and sustainable use of water resources. Since 2001, Norway has been involved in the implementation of the Water Directive by EU countries. The preparatory work for the first planning period has been of great importance to ensure that implementation also takes into account Norwegian circumstances. An important result of Norway’s participation in the implementation of the Water Directive by EU countries is that water bodies with major physical interventions can be categorised as heavily modified. This refers to adapted environmental objectives, the term ‘good ecological potential’. Water bodies built for hydropower purposes would typically fall within this category. The action plans to be drawn up on the basis of the Directive will be an important process tool for the revision of hydropower concessions. This is underlined in the Committee's comments. Where there is currently no requirement for minimum water flow, it is important to achieve proper environmental improvements. In general, there is a high potential for improvement at many levels in old hydropower plants, where the potential for environmental improvement can be high with only a little water drop. For the sake of order, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I would like to stress that today's administrative competence and watercourse legislation are established. Although much work has already been done, the implementation of the Directive will be demanding for Norway. It requires considerable efforts in several areas. This Directive leads to increased requirements for water monitoring, research and development and increased administrative effort. There will be a need to strengthen surveillance monitoring in order to determine the environmental status of different water types and to follow long-term changes in our watercourses. Action monitoring must also be carried out in order to identify chemical and ecological conditions where there is a risk that environmental objectives will not be achieved and to monitor the development and impact of environmental measures. Adequate monitoring must be in place in 2014 if we are to achieve the objectives of the Directive. In order to meet the environmental objectives, a multisectoral management plan with a corresponding action programme shall be drawn up in each of the nine water regions. These shall be rolled and updated every six years. It is now important that we use the competences that we already have in the various water regions, and that this is given weight in determining who should be responsible for water regions. If we are to succeed in implementing the Water Directive, extensive cooperation is required between a number of relevant authorities at all levels of administration. Municipalities will be strongly involved and in many cases process-driven for work. This presupposes practical and resource-based provision for the broad involvement of civil society – as required by the Directive. Finally, I would like to stress that the Water Directive will also involve increased costs for municipalities, especially in relation to the implementation of measures. The overall and direct economic consequences are currently very difficult to estimate. In the years to come, the municipalities must be provided with sufficient resources to ensure that the necessary measures in line with the Water Directive can be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1325	Access to clean water is increasingly a source of international conflict. We also see that limiting access to clean water is partly used in warfare, for example. on the Gaza Strip. In that perspective, it can feel as if we in Norway take a little too light on the obvious thing to get clean water when we turn the jump on. This directive requires us to monitor and take care of our water resources. It is a comprehensive monitoring work that is now to be carried out, and I would like to stress the importance of involving the counties and municipalities, as the rapporteur also explained. The government has proposed that we in Norway should, as far as possible, follow the timetable of the EU countries, and it strongly supports the Committee. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the President-in-Office for having had a good and thorough discussion of this matter in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1336	I think there are too few who have understood the importance of the directive we are in favour of adopting. I am delighted that we are doing just that, along with a unanimous big thing, and I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for the fact that there is an overall committee that is behind all the comments. This is a very important directive, but it has taken too long to transpose it. The intention of the Water Directive is, of course, to coordinate the responsibilities of the various sectors in order to achieve the objective of preventing and improving the state of the aquatic environment and of promoting the sustainable use of water. We are exceptionally privileged in terms of water resources, but too many others are not. We also have a special responsibility to care for our water. This Directive will therefore coordinate and coordinate all activities in all sectors, which means that state descriptions and measures will cover all negative impacts on the aquatic environment. I am convinced of this responsibility that we will take, and of course it builds up a unanimous greatness. However, the implementation and implementation of the Water Directive means that water management needs competence. Resources must be provided to ensure that they are safeguarded. Finally, let me just extend a special thanks to SABIMA for the brilliant work they do in the entire field in general, but in biodiversity in particular. In dealing with this matter, they have been very prepared to contribute the necessary knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1347	The Water Directive has inter alia: as the main objective of preventing further deterioration and protecting and improving the status of fresh water, groundwater and coastal areas in Europe. It shall also promote the sustainable use of water based on the long-term protection of available water resources and it is based on ambitious environmental objectives. In particular, the Directive: the objective of maintaining or achieving in all natural water bodies at least good chemical and ecological status in line with specified criteria. It is gratifying that the Committee's position is unanimous in an important environmental issue that we are dealing with today. The implementation of the Directive will be demanding for Norway, and therefore the Left expects the Government to follow this up with significant efforts on a broad front. This Directive leads to increased requirements for water monitoring, for research and development and for increased administrative efforts. Adequate monitoring of water resources must be in place by 2014 at the latest, and the water monitoring requirements of the Directive will require that total resources should be stepped up to a level of 75-90 million. kr in addition to current resource use. And it is, as I said, necessary that the resources are in place by 2014. During the last year’s budgetary procedure in the United Kingdom, this area has been prioritised by the Left. Among other things, we have proposed stepping up efforts to clean up and monitor water and watercourses. Further work on the follow-up to the Directive will be undertaken on audits of hydropower concessions. In particular, it is important to review these concessions with an environmental perspective in mind and to consider the issues currently addressed in the suspension. One can see a great potential for improvement at many levels when reviewing the concessions for old hydropower plants. One also has examples of how to improve environmental adaptation and also facilitate increased power generation. There is one important issue that is not addressed in today’s setting and which is not included in the framework of which there is a broad consensus, namely the environmental problems in coastal waters related to escaped farmed fish, salmonids, king crabs and seaweed radiation. It would be interesting to hear the Council of State's assessment of how to proceed with these major environmental challenges, which are not affected and included in the attitude, so that we also get an improvement in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1364	Water is important, very important. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee has gathered in the configuration. I take the word only to underline what the case spokesperson also had to say, the role of the municipalities and their need to be strengthened, so that they can exercise the role they have been given through the directive that we are adopting and implementing today. Water is beside food our most basic resource. The availability of clean water is crucial for health and development, it is crucial for food production, and it is crucial for biological deficiency. Even if we have good access to water in our country — in some parts of the country, we sometimes thought that we have good access to water from above — it is crucial that we be able to take good care of the water resources we have, including for future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1371	It's not much to add the good posts that are kept from most of the games here now. I really just want to use the opportunity to congratulate the Stortinge with the day. This is not a directive that will cause heated debates and a great deal of controversy, nor is it a great deal of media attention. But it is a very important directive that affects people's lives in a positive way over time. The Water Directive is also at its best, as I see it. Creating common standards in Europe in such an important area as this is crucial – because water is crossing national borders, and we are dependent on others and they are dependent on us if we are to solve the problems. The setting of common European standards in this area is very fine. In Norway, we're used to having plenty of water. Most of the Norwegians think that we have clean water all around us, and that there's really no problem here. It is not as simple as that, although other countries have, of course, much bigger problems. In the Netherlands it is 98 pst. of water with potential for improvement, and in the United Kingdom there are 75 pst. In Norway, it's 25 pst. of the water that we think needs improvement, and in some cases we do not know the water status well enough to be able to determine the situation. So yes, we are one of the luckiest countries in the world in terms of water, we have among the cleanest water in the world, and we have among the best water supply in the world. But it is also possible for us to make things better, and this directive will force us to do so. Themes that emerged included: those that the rapporteur raised: we will have questions about run-off from agriculture, minimum water flow in dry watercourses and cleaning up ports and fjords. The themes addressed by the Chairman of the Committee will also be addressed, such as: problems related to escaped farmed fish. Each of these problems will now allow us to address them. We need more research, better management, and we need to assume – as in all other environmental work – that the polluter pays. It shall not be the responsibility of society and the public to clean up, but those who impose an environmental cost on society shall also be responsible for paying. Finally, as early as this year, in 2009, we will come back with the first management plans with action programmes for approx. 20 pst. of the waters of Norway. They will be adopted as a voluntary scheme and in line with the first planning period of the EU. We'll get started right away. But this is a directive which, above all, will have a long-term impact and will dramatically improve water quality in Europe if you do not see it from day to day, but from year to year, and from decade to decade. This will lead to a significantly better situation for Europe in 20–30 years than today. Again, we can congratulate ourselves on an important decision, although there is no maximum attention around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1386	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Eirin Faldet resumed the office of President here. [[Food, see page 2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1398	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1406	The President proposes that the Foreign Minister’s statement at the Stockholm meeting on 10 February 2009 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1468	On the last point of the Minutes, the President will point out here, for the sake of order, that the Presidency's proposal that the proposal for a representative be presented to the members of the Grand Duchy for at least one day and then be included on the map for consideration was adopted by three votes to two, and that was with the double vote of the Vice-President. [[(124):]] The minority decided to forward the proposal to the committee. The President then gives the floor to Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1475	I am a little surprised that the majority of the Presidency is in such a hurry with this representative proposal from Ellingsen and Amundsen. We cannot see – from the side of the government parties at least – that it is so urgent that it must be dealt with as quickly as the majority of the Presidency has proposed. That is why, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to make the following proposals: «The case is proposed for referral to committee.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1484	For the sake of order: it is a matter of alternative voting. It is then necessary to clarify which committee is involved – I cannot recall that there has ever been a referral to committee without naming the committee, so it might have to come up later. When this proposal was made yesterday, the proposer, Jan Arild Ellingsen, asked for it to be dealt with by outsourcing to the members of the Stortinge for at least one day and then listed on the map for consideration. The majority of the Presidency – Inge Wohnung and myself – have chosen to follow it and get treatment as quickly as possible. Before I go on, let me also say that there is a small incursion in the minutes case. There are proposals ‘to ban hijab and other religious or political symbols as part of the police uniform’. The wording of the proposal – so that representatives are aware of what the Storting has been invited to decide either next week or after committee procedure – is as follows: ‘The Government requests the maintenance of today’s uniform regulations and does not allow the use of hijab and other religious or political symbols as part of the police uniform.’ In other words, ‘not to allow use’ is anything other than the imposition of a prohibition, to which it refers in the wording of the minutes held at the premises of the representatives. Once we have reached the conclusion that we will comply with the request of the proposers, it is primarily because there has been a continuous debate in the Stortinget. Stortingspresident Thorbjørn Jagland – he is travelling abroad, and the Labour Party member of the Presidency is ill-appointed, so there are only four votes plus the double vote – has repeatedly expressed the wish that current political debates should also be held more closely in the Grand Chamber, not just in all other forums in our country. If you first open the door to change the police's uniform regulations and allow the use of political and religious symbols – for that is what is basically what Ola Borten Moe has pointed out – then you also have to open up political buttons and other political symbols on the uniforms. That debate has already been held in Editorial Section EN of the NRK, it has been on Tabloid on TV 2, and it is flooded in the newspapers of reading aids and partly editorial articles – double-page in the VG today. The only place where the government parties do not want it to be debated is in the main hall – only after very many weeks. We don't think that's right. Therefore, we believe that the proposal should be presented for at least one day and listed on a map for consideration during the next week. It is also the case that this proposal is a proposal of principle which has already been taken up by a large number of big business representatives, and they have publicly expressed their views on it. I have asked a lot of people: is there anyone who wants to change their opinion if, in some hearings, which the government is supposed to put into action afterwards, there are other views? Then all of the people I've talked to say no, they've decided. Sending something out at formal consultation, just as a formality, at least I don't think I'm wise. I allow myself to quote -- it tells me a little bit against -- from today's time of the world: «At the same time, several sources in the red-green parties say that the further process around their own police hijab is only a formality that will end up being rejected.» If this is true, the hearing is actually a false hearing. You send the proposal around, and maybe you give a signal that what others think doesn't matter, because we've decided. I don't think that's very wise either. In addition, in an important matter, it will create uncertainty for some people who are very concerned about whether or not to apply for the Police College, which we are familiar with. Getting a clarification of the principle as quickly as possible will also make sense for them. Finally, I can't wait to say that some of us have actually also tried to get the government parties to help out by getting this matter out of the world as quickly as possible. But if the government parties want to have the matter up and down for weeks to come to committee, there are also some who really have nothing against it. I don't know if the president took up the majority proposal, but if it wasn't, I'll take up the majority proposal to put it out one day and then get it to treatment next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1518	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has referred to the proposal of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1521	I'll be allowed to give the Right's vote. We support the majority of the Presidency. Our starting point is that the Storting should be able to take simple principles up to debate more quickly rather than send everything to the Committees for consideration. We have suggested different ways of working on this. Among other things, the Stortinget now has to deal with minority rights and other, given that we feel that the Stortinget does not feel to a large extent to be the most central debating body in the Norwegian community. Under a majority government, that situation has deteriorated. We believe that the content of this proposal is so simple, so simple in principle and so concrete that there is no need for long-term major consultations in the Committee. This has no budgetary implications. This is hardly a proposal that not all the parties during approx. 24 hours could say yes or no. Then it might be a good testament that we actually vote for it, without getting a case proposal and a procedure in committee. I would like to stress that we are not in favour of the Storting to become a resolution machine for various proposals, but sometimes it may be that the Stortinget should also receive and be involved in what we are dealing with, and not be acquitted: that matters are settled when this room begins the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1530	Carl I. Hagen has expressed what the majority, consisting of himself and Inge Wohnning, means in the Presidency – determined by Carl I. Hagen's double voice. I just want to clarify what the minority, which is composed of the undersigned and Ola T. Loan, has expressed. The normal way of dealing with proposals for representatives, which is the absolute rule – there are very few exceptions – is that it is sent to the relevant trade committee and dealt with there. The relevant professional committee in this case is the Justice Committee. If you were to use Carl I. Hagen's reasoning that you have to take a decision directly in the Chamber because there is a public debate about a question, it will be completely paralysing for the public debate. I can't understand the logic of it at all. In addition, the Joint Police Association, which opposes this ban – regardless of what one might think of it – has asked for it to be a hearing. The consequence of what Carl I. Hagen is proposing here is to deprive organisations of the opportunity to make recordings at the hearing. So you break into what those people who have expressed their own skepticism have said that they want. That's why it makes sense for the minority to follow completely normal procedure here. This is addressed to the Judicial Committee, the debate called for by Carl I. Hagen is raised in an ordinary way, and the views of the Government are also discussed by the Committee. There's no reason for it to be done differently here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1539	In the view of the Christian People's Party, there are good reasons to be critical of both the government's proposal and the government's procedure. However, the proposal for urgent procedure here in Stortinget lacks, in our view, a factual basis. It is not a matter of fact that a matter has been debated at Tabloid or in Editorial EN. In contrast to the representative, Hagen, we believe that there is no reason to get the Government to intervene in this matter. Let me also say that we support the minority's view of the Presidency. The only reason why this matter might have to be dealt with urgently was that the government obviously has hastened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1546	Let me first say that I am in favour of the fact that, more often than what is happening today, we are able to take rapid debates when the matter is served and the debate is served with it. It will make Stortinget more topical. It's so that sometimes it can be a desire to have an emergency button. When I lighted after the national game on my TV yesterday, I would like to have an emergency button, but it was not there. Occasionally, there is a need to spend time on proceedings. The left's view is that this matter should be dealt with by the committee, with a little bit of the same reason that the representative Højbråten used: I have no wish about in a situation where the government sends so confusing signals about what they stand for, to help it out of that trouble. I want this on a committee, in order to get a clear view of what the Government will have to believe in that matter before the Stortinget takes the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1551	Some affected my views, which I would like to comment on. I understood that Lars Sponheim would like to have an emergency button during a TV broadcast yesterday. I understand that he would like to need some time, as there are also different views in the Left that need to be coordinated in some way in this matter. It's going to be interesting to see what the conclusion is, whether it's going to be the same view as the Left's top politician, Abid Raja, or whether it's going to be different. Then it was said that the Police Joint Union would like to have this at the hearing. Yes, it was if it had been decided that the uniform regulations should be amended. Surely no one is in any doubt as to what the League of Police and Arne Johannessen think about this matter? It was because he wanted to have the opportunity to stop a change of the uniform regulation, a new chance, he wanted to have a hearing. I am absolutely convinced that Arne Johannessen and the Police Union will have this matter out of the world as soon as possible by having the proposal put forward, adopted in the Stortinget as quickly as possible, so that the matter is put to death. I think there was some strange reason from Olav Gunnar Ballo. It was also mentioned that it was important to allow the government time to come to a clear position. According to the newspapers, there is a full fight within the government, with clear fronts from different sides. In fact, I also believe that the Government would appreciate being forced to make a decision that it could announce in the debate on this proposal next week, instead of risking open hearings in the Judicial Committee, where various state councils who have publicly expressed their views may be invited to consult to repeat their views. Also there it would make sense. But it's the majority of the Biggest who decide this, and whatever the result, I think at least that the undersigned will be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1565	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Presidency's proposal and the proposal of Inge Ryan, which envisages the transmission of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12.ana.ud2009e1576	No. 4 is then sent to the Justice Committee. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
