ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e22	The representatives of Åslaug Haga, Karita Bekkemelm, Torfinn Opheim, Kari Lise Holmberg and Øystein Djupedal, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The request for sick leave has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes from 22 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Siri A. Meling, shall be called to meet during the period of leave. Siri A. Meling is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e64	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e74	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e77	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, propose the liquidation of Aker Holding so that the state becomes a direct shareholder in Aker Solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e82	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 3 April 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 3 April 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is hereby decided: The Office of the Prime Minister State Secretary, Kari Henriksen, is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Ministry of Health and Welfare.’ The President proposed that this letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e112	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin Halvorsen State Council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa State Council Erik Solheim The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e131	I would like to take this opportunity to condone the government with a very dark and gloomy record: never has the local economy in Norway been worse. And there's nothing the Progress Party says, there's something the Statistical Central Bureau says: it's a fact that for the first time in history after you started measuring operating results in Norwegian municipalities, you're in a situation where it's negative. Then there is little point in talking about spending on care for the elderly, talking about building new schools, talking about investing in kindergartens or child protection, or integration, for that matter, when the municipalities have to provide these services, and this government does not enable Norwegian municipalities to do so. The municipalities are the foundations of the Norwegian welfare community. We receive daily feedback from our own local politicians who doubt the situation out there. It is therefore a government with a majority in Stortinget that has implemented a policy contrary to what was claimed in the 2005 election campaign, namely to invest in municipal economy and restore good conditions in Norwegian municipalities. So the exact opposite is the case. So my question to the government council, Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa, is this: Has the government given up? Has it realized that it is unable to meet its 2005 electoral commitments? Has it thrown the cards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e140	Let me first thank you for your knowledge. Let me then underline that if we look at the net operating result from the autumn of 2008, the image looks dark. But there are actually some other numbers that also count, for example. the fact that the municipalities have added NOK 30 billion – that is then adjusted for all that needs to be adjusted for. And the numbers that I'm now referring to are not the government's numbers, but they're the central statistical agency's own numbers, so it's between 30,000 and 35,000 new annual works. It may provoke Per-Willy Amundsen, but I have to say that I am happy to join a government that is investing in the community, which is investing in the local economy. So there's no doubt that 2008 was a demanding year. There is also no doubt that there are unresolved tasks in municipalities, both now in 2009 and for the following years. However, there can be no doubt that there is a significant improvement in significant areas – for example: 12 500 new annual work in place in the care sector and 37 500 new kindergartens. I am humble to the situation of the municipalities in 2009. 2008 was a special year. I'll come back to it if Amundsen gives me access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e149	We still hear that the government comes back to their figures and refers to how much more money has been spent on the municipal sector – 30 billion kroner, etc. But the problem is that when costs increase more than income, there is no increase in transfers to municipalities. That's where the problem lies, and that's why we end up with a negative operating result for Norwegian municipalities. We know that in order to maintain Norwegian schools and to maintain care facilities there in Norwegian municipalities, it is necessary to have an annual level of approx. 3 pst. net operating surplus. We're very far away from it. How in all the world will the Council of State be able to correct the enormous delays we have in the maintenance of public buildings in Norwegian municipalities? Does she have any idea at all about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e156	The answer is yes. I have a very clear idea about that. Let me just say first when it comes to 2008: why did 2008 become an extra demanding year? This is because the cost growth was greater than both government and big business had foreseen. There are also some who have suffered the loss of our stock exchange. So it means that in sum, the operating profit is probably positive, but that's because Oslo and the county councils are pulling the number. There are very many municipalities that have a negative result, but it is because they have invested in new annual works and in new kindergartens, and in many other things that are most necessary in the municipalities. So the government's response is directed first at missing tax revenue, then towards free income, which we came with already in January, against the package of measures, and then towards the municipal proposition, with further new free revenues in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e165	There will be four follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e168	It is not the case that 2008 is the year of the derogation. 2006 is the year of the derogation. It's the only year the government has fulfilled the promises regarding the municipal economy. All the years that followed, the local economy has been below the target that all governments have agreed on, i.e. 3 pst. 3 pst. It's not the only number that the Council of State has, but it's the number that the Government and Technical Calculation Committee agree on is the number that most clearly reflects the economic situation in the municipalities. That number is now negative for the first time. The centre party has three records in terms of local economy. That's the 1999 record, with the worst local authority ever. That's the record from now on, 2009, with the worst results ever in the municipal sector, and it's the record in self-esteem – that they work for a better municipal economy, when they actually do the opposite. Does the Council of State believe that the Government has fulfilled its promise of a multi-annual plan for the consolidation of the local economy, when the local economy is now the worst ever?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e177	I don't want to take up any fight when it comes to self-confidence, but I have to say that I'm not directly impressed with the representative Höie's memory, because it was actually a period before this government took over. At least 30 billion dollars makes a difference in municipalities. Between 30,000 and 35,000 new year works make a big difference. Then there are still unresolved tasks in schools, health and care, and in other areas in the municipalities, hence the accumulation of both the free income and other income required by the municipalities to solve these tasks. So we go to the escarpment plan. I mean to think that KS in its time asked for approx. $20 billion for this period. They have received 30, and the municipalities have already received a solid escalation in the first year of this government: NOK 5.7 billion. You're my great host in the municipalities!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e186	Åge Starheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e190	I'm recording that the state council repeats itself over and over again with these 30 billions. What the Council of State doesn't want to talk about so much is the increase in costs that have been in those days. On the other hand, Sogn and Fjordane Workerpartie have inserted the curse of the Government. At the County Council meeting of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparti a short time ago, they adopted a resolution which I assume is at the Council of State, where they among other things. says: ‘There is currently not a fully taken height for wage increases and increases in pension costs. This often leads to direct cuts in service provision in municipalities, especially before the two main sectors of education and health.’ My question to the Council of State is: Does the Labour Party fail? Isn't it true what the Sogn and Fjordane Labour Party resolution says?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e202	When I repeat these two numbers, it's because it seems that it's hard to get the whole size of the picture that there are actually SSB numbers telling us about between 30,000 and 35,000 new year's work. There's a big difference between that and between 5,000 and 10,000 in the previous period. Like these 30 billions, the point is that we need to know that something has happened in these four years. And then I'm the first one to realize that I'm actually impressed by what the municipalities have been doing in these years, and secondly, that there are unsolved tasks here. That's what I think I've already been in on. In the case of compensation of employees and pensioners, they are higher than those laid down in the budget for 2008 and into 2009. But there are adjustments to both pay and retirement in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e209	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e212	The Christian People's Party wants to turn this debate from a debate about numbers to a focus on quality in services. That's what's important to people in Norwegian municipalities. There was an interaction reform. The Minister of Health has said that through an interaction reform, a person should improve primary health services in the municipalities – the fixed medical system, the care services for those who are ill and need an offer in his municipality. It welcomes the Christian People's Party. However, we are a little concerned that the interaction reform is being postponed, both in the presentation in the Stortinget and that the reform itself is being postponed until 2012. What cannot be postponed is processed in the municipalities. Here is the question to the Minister for Municipalities: Will the Government ensure that the municipalities are able to do this – to strengthen the municipal health service, the permanent scheme and the building of competences in the municipalities, so that they are prepared to provide better health services in Norwegian municipalities from 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e221	The aim of the government is that we should have more health services, better health services and previous treatment close to where people live, thus proposing a new reform. So I think it is good that there are so great expectations for this reform that it is already presented in a very favourable way. But when it comes to these different elements that the representative Tørresdal is now calculating, I think it is necessary to take time, precisely to ensure that the reform is well-prescribed when it is presented to the Stortinget, so that there is a good basis for decision-making there. The answer to the question whether the municipalities are able to do this is yes. It is quite clear that the local authorities must be able to make good progress both in terms of means and in other areas if we are to close this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e228	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e231	This government has given the municipalities an income promise – yes. But it has given municipalities an even greater cost promise. A historical chance of restoring a balance in the local economy has been squandered by a one-sided focus on increased income. While wage and pension expenditure has increased and efficiency has stopped. An overall opposition asked the Government to include the expenditure equalisation when a new income system was to be adopted for municipalities last year. But no, even then it was only the income side that was interesting. Next year, expenditure will become a topic. Within that time we will see a dramatic decline in the tax entrance of the municipalities. Is the response of the Council of State to continue to raise costs to municipalities, or to put more pressure on efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e238	Let me say that when it comes to wages and pensions, the municipalities themselves have asked to be held responsible for that very thing, to be held responsible for the settlement of wages and salaries. We then see the consequences of an expensive wage settlement in 2009. I have to apologize for that, but I cannot accept a presentation where we continue to charge new costs to the municipalities. We have a very good dialogue with the KS through the consultation arrangements four times a year, where we talk about new tasks, where we talk about resources that will be available, where we talk about existing tasks that have resulted in extra costs, and where we come up with adjustments sometimes in the revised budget, at least in the state budget and also in the municipal budget. And then it wasn't that expense equalization wasn't interesting in connection with a new income system. On the contrary, there was a large and unknown factor coming into 2011, i.e. kindergartens. Therefore, there was an extension to get the best possible basis on that page.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e247	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e250	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. She is responsible for the common fund and the Pension Fund. I want to ask her about the Aker case. Apart from some anonymous statements to the press that the Workers' Party has handled this matter entirely on its own, we have heard little from other members of the government in this matter. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance has raised a debate on the so-called active management of the State pension fund. As is known, such investments have resulted in significant losses, including large losses in individual companies. In this context, it is obvious that the Government itself practises a rather doubtful form of active management through its direct buy-in on the stock exchange. One example is the payment of NOK 5 billion from our common pension fund to Aker in 2007 to buy shares in Aker Holding. Not only did oil and gas exposure increase, but the investment occurred in very special circumstances. The state went in with money to a close political supporter to the Workers' Party. The state invested 5 billion kroner, deliberately done without financial quality assurance. The state went into fundamentally different conditions than the private investors did. The State entered a holding company, where there are hostages and, in reality, the majority vote for the main shareholder. The state got a shareholder agreement full of legal holes, and the state's follow-up to the Aker Holding Board has not helped defend the values invested. I think it was a bit of a relief with the Workers' Party declaration of war against Kjell Inge Smoke and Aker in the Easter. Does the Minister for Finance agree with the Right that the Aker Holding investment does not exactly represent pioneering activities in the management of the single fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e261	I think I first have to congratulate the representative Hansen on a relatively creative approach to trying to get me to take responsibility for what is the Minister of Industry's constitutional responsibility towards Stortinget. And all reference to this case when the state went into the owner's side of this company, was submitted to Stortinget. The Aktionar contract was presented, and Stortinget was fully aware of what you were going to do. And details of the agreement and the balances that were made then, it is the Minister of Industry who responds to the Stortinget. I expect that there will also be consultation in this case, and that the representative will have the opportunity to come back to this. What I want to underline, and which has been the government's view and handling of this matter afterwards, is that we depend on having neat conditions in the Norwegian business community and in the companies in which the government enters. And neat conditions are that all shareholders should have access to the same information and be treated equally. And it's about making sure that the transactions that are taking place are valued correctly. That's what this case is about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e269	I think this matter is about a couple of other things as well. I think it is serious that the government gives a political supporter billion payments, while all other business owners in this country have to pay increased taxes. In the Financial Newspaper today, there is a new issue of the interaction between the Government and Smoking. There it is claimed that a government would grant Aker a new and specially designed tax exemption if the Aker property was placed in a foundation. It was going to be a social-democratic think tank after pattern from Fafo. The government was supposed to go to the workers' party people. 60-80 pst. by the entry of Smoke in Aker ASA was to be lifted in this Foundation. And the Ministry of Finance was going to draw up its own bill to grant Smoke tax exemptions. According to Finansavisen, this was worked at a high level both in the Ministry of Finance and at the Prime Minister's office. This case is well described in today's newspaper. Can the Minister of Finance explain to Stortinget what this is all about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e278	Yeah, I'd love to. There has never been talk of making any tax changes or other types of changes to facilitate any special foundation that Smoke had to initiate. What I can confirm is that there has been an examination of the current rules regarding taxes and the procedure for setting up a foundation. There has been contact at administrative level between the Ministry of Finance and people from Aker to clarify what are today’s rules. The Ministry of Finance also referred to the Tax Directorate, which is the one dealing with this type of issue, but it has never been relevant at any time to make any changes to the tax rules in force to facilitate any kind of fund or foundation. Nor is it the case that there has been talk of the creation of almost a working party fund, as I see it referred to as. It's a non-profit foundation it's been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e283	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e286	I am aware that many of the matters relating to the Aker case belong to the Minister of Industry's table. But it is clear that when, among other things, Today, information in the media that the Ministry of Finance has worked on this foundation is not entirely unnatural to address this with the Minister of Finance. I understand that the Minister of Finance now believes that it has not been the job in the way the media claims, and that is to a great extent. Then we've heard it from the finance minister, and I expect that she's on a safe footing with that. But with regard to the Aker case, the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister were very clear that in the process currently under way, the Government has strongly called for the zeroing of these transactions. I believe that the Minister of Finance also has a view on this. I have seen that the Minister of Finance has been relatively silent in these matters. But is it the case that the Minister of Finance is also clearly behind the initial demands of the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister that these transactions should be zeroed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e293	First of all, the issue that the Financial Newspaper is passing on today. There is no reason for anyone to wonder that it has at any time been discussed to make any changes to any tax rules. It is not unusual for the Ministry of Finance to be contacted by individual companies that wonder what the applicable rules are regarding either taxes or taxes, nor is it unusual to clarify them through meeting activities at administrative level. It also happens that it is at political level. In this case, there has been no political contact in the Ministry of Finance, and it has never been relevant to make any changes to the tax law in the light of this. There have never been any members of the government ever suggested – and I had to be carried out if it were to be a topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e298	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e301	There is no doubt that there is a special link between Aker-Røkke and parts of the Government, in particular the Workers' Party, in many cases. It is therefore interesting when it comes to issues that obviously link the Workers' Party and Smoke to a new foundation to strengthen social-democratic ideas in Norwegian society. It is also important that there be full transparency about the way this contact has been, and who has had this contact. I have a specific question for the Minister of Finance: Has there been any contact at any time from the Prime Minister's office with the Ministry of Finance on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e308	What I know is that there has been a contact between Smoke and the Prime Minister's office on the question of a foundation, but that all the issues relating to tax matters and how the current rules were to be understood were referred to the Ministry of Finance, and then they are dealt with by ordinary activities here. But there has never been any mention of anyone, for example. from the Prime Minister’s office has made contact at political level to make some changes to the tax rules to be adapted to such a type of formation. So this is managed how we handle many requests from single operators in the business world who wonder how today's rules turn out – completely tidy and really. There has never been any time to make any changes. He was referred to the Tax Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e313	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e316	You might get the impression that parts of the Government feel so uncomfortable with this matter that you refer to the Minister of Industry as soon as you have the slightest chance of doing so. But what is a fact is that there is an overall government that has stood behind the agreement that now appears – and the opposition warned against – to contain so many clauses that ensure that smoking sits with the bay and both ends, while the state becomes a passive tribune. The loss on that transaction is now over NOK 5 billion. That's the same thing as the Government's total poverty effort, and I'm counting on smoking not being included in it. So my question is, does the government feel comfortable with the agreement you made in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e323	No one should misunderstand when I refer to the Minister of Industry for details of the agreement that was concluded and how it was presented to Stortinget. It's about cleanliness in the relationship between government and expansion, and it's about who's constitutionally responsible. When the Government promotes a case for the Storting, a collective government is behind the case. The background to this acquisition by the State was a strong desire in an overall government to maintain the skills and jobs that Aker Kværner had in Norway. So it's wrong to say that you've lost NOK 5 billion on this transaction. It is true that there is an impairment in the company of that magnitude. But we have no plans to sell ourselves out of the company with the first, so it's going to be a completely different kind of discussion. What I think is very important is that we stress all the way – which is what the Government has done, what the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister has done – that we need to have neat relationships that make shareholders, including minority shareholders, know that their rights are being respected, and that they have proper valuation of the transactions that are being made, and that is what this matter is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e335	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e338	The strong desire of the Government has led the Red-Green Government, with the support of a majority in this Chamber, consisting of the Red-Green plus Advance Party, through a shareholder agreement has locked the state into being a minority support for the main shareholder Smoke for ten years. It's a fact. It has added smoking great values. It's also a fact. Today, the main shareholder is going to smoke the speech of the people and the Government of the Moonfish. Is the Minister of Finance excited about the message from the Moonfish?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e343	No, I'm not. This is about having good business agreements and acting neatly when you are in a partnership with an enterprise. That's why I'm not so concerned with what Smoke says. I'm concerned about what he's doing. I am concerned that the handling of this matter is now being done neatly and properly to the State as a minority shareholder. What distinguishes this community from other issues where the state is the owner of businesses – and we are in very many other companies – is that then the other holdings are usually quite scattered, and usually the state is among the largest owners. What is different here is that the state is a minority shareholder together with a large capitalist who is a majority shareholder. This suggests that you have clean and proper relationships. I don't think there's any reason why someone should be surprised at what that shareholder agreement looks like. It was presented to the Stortinget. I went through that case and that debate yesterday, and it was primarily about the price, what they had paid for those shares, and not what the shareholder agreement looked like. So Sponheim has also been familiar with all the issues surrounding the legal issues when the case was dealt with in Stortinget, without being particularly concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e348	The next main question is from Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e351	The Minister of Finance may stand still. I understand that she will keep a low profile in the Aker case. I will take on board a problem where she has had a very high profile, namely the question of the fall of capitalism as a result of the financial crisis and the need for stronger government governance. Many speakers, from the Minister of Finance and beyond in her own ranks, have concluded that with the financial crisis they have been given the right: capitalists are ruthless people who cannot get free play. They must be kept strictly in the timbers – state control is what is needed. The Christian People's Party agrees that the financial crisis has shown in many ways that we need government governance. But who really has shown with action that state governance is important in the matter on which the Minister of Finance has now been asked? We are too state-owned when it comes to clean conditions, to ensure control of important national resources and competences. But that's exactly why we were strongly opposed to the purchase in Aker. It is completely wrong, as the Minister of Finance just said from the pulpit of the Storting, that the opposition, represented by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, was not concerned with the content of the agreement. We thought the agreement was too weak. It gave too weak government control, given the position that the state entered. We had critical comments at price, and we wrote for our part explicitly in the recommendation that if the purchase was made, it was important that the state did not become a sleeping partner, but that the government actively had to secure the values of the state and ensure that the investment goal of a good, long-term business development was achieved. In other words, clear warnings came from the minority who voted against this purchase. Rarely have I been so sorry that we got right, so to the degrees right, with what has happened in retrospect. Our clear warnings about how the Government should act if it chose to join the company have turned it on. The question is whether the Minister of Finance believes that this is the gold standard for stronger government governance at these times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e362	Let me say this: the element we have of state ownership in Norwegian business has been very useful in this financial crisis. I think everyone sees it's been a force. It has helped to secure jobs. Businesses in other countries would wish they had the same type of state ownership when it blows. It's not necessarily the same thing as this kind of sharing. I respect that you can have different assessments of how state ownership should be designed, that it is possible to be too state ownership without having supported exactly this transaction, as the Christian People's Party considered the matter in Stortinget at the time. What we achieved with this agreement was a small post, 12 p.m., in a company and through the safe activity in Norway and securing Norwegian jobs. It's not essentially a bad deal. It was the intention behind the agreement that was concluded. But of course, I'm very concerned that we have neat and proper relations in terms of state ownership. This has been the case in this case, for it has been submitted to Stortinget. Nothing is kept secret from the Storting. Nothing has happened in any cabin or in any back room. Then the Christian People's Party has come to a different judgment than the Government and the Advance Party. I respect that. But you can't give the impression that you haven't been aware of the kind of rules that existed, for example. in the shareholder agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e373	The point is that the opposition was so far to the degrees aware of what was in this case that we actively argued against and voted against. The government met us with deaf ears. They might wish today that they had listened a little more to the objections we had. Then you wouldn't have been in the mess you're in right now. Steinar Mediaas, economic commentator in the NRK, characterizes this case as making the government look like a medium-sized Terra municipality. And it's not meant to be any compliment from Mediaas. I agree with the Minister of Finance that securing jobs is an important strategy and that state ownership can be an instrument in this regard. It has been said that the sale of companies to Aker Solutions is important for the jobs. I wonder about that, because the companies involved were sold from the relatively solid Smoke-controlled Aker to a heavily indebted Aker Solutions. Can the Minister of Finance explain to me and to Stortinget how such sales can help secure the jobs of companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e380	I've never commented exactly that. When I talk about securing jobs, it was because it was the main purpose of the matter that Stortinget dealt with in 2007. Now there are just the strategic conditions around the sale of these companies and the pricing of those that are the theme of the unresolved relationship between Aker and Smoke and the state in the future. And then just the strategic question of whether these are companies is it's true that Aker Solutions is going into, what's the right strategy for the future, one of the themes. Besides, I think the comparison with Terra municipalities is completely on the line. This is an agreement that has been concluded. There is no realised loss that makes Terra municipalities and the state comparable in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e387	The state is bound and owned... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e392	The President allows four follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e395	The questions related to the Aker case continue. I record what was the Government's assessment when it was decided to make this purchase, and there were some assessments supported by the Advance Party. Ensuring jobs, etc. We have therefore agreed with the Government. But the big questions about what has happened in retrospect are how the government has managed the state ownership, how to handle the values that the Norwegian people have set up in relation to this transaction and this purchase. I would simply like to ask the Minister of Finance if she is satisfied with the way in which this has been handled, once you have ended up in the situation you have been in. In addition, I want the Minister of Finance to answer the question I asked in the previous round, whether she is fully behind the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister's clear demand for zeroing of these transactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e403	I believe that the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister have dealt with this matter just as it should be handled, with great power and by passing on just the main issues that lie there. Yes, I believe that a nullification of the agreements that have been concluded so far must be possible. What is the reasonable outcome of this case, we get back to when it has been discussed further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e410	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e413	For those of us who have been following Kristin Halvorsen in Stortinget for some years, I have to say that there is a touching concern for the world's and Norway's capitalists the Minister of Finance now expresses. That may not have been exactly how I felt that the Ministry of Finance's control task was. My experience was that we did not have many enquiries from the sole proprietor who wanted a response to how the tax system worked – they were able to find out for themselves. So it must be something new when the Minister of Finance now deals with the wishes for tax relief from sole traders as individual enquiries, or refers them to the Tax Directorate. But my question goes more to the Ministry of Finance's control task, because the Council of State just said in the previous answer that the Minister of Industry has handled this matter exactly as it should be handled. My question is as follows: Is the Minister of Finance aware that this is the first time that the Ministry of Industry handles a large purchase – or for that matter sales – without the renting of a financial advisor, and is she satisfied with such a change in a long-term practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e420	First of all, the issues of taxes, taxes, etc. Of course, I don't know how Per-Kristian Foss managed this when he was in the Ministry of Finance. I have not had direct contact and very rarely have contact with individual companies, but it is not unusual for individual companies to be informed of the applicable rules regarding taxes and charges affecting them. There is something quite different than discussing changes in the tax regime. It has not been at all relevant in this case. So when it comes to control tasks, what I've responded to is how the Minister of Industry came forward when this case and these sales and purchases were a fact. This case was dealt with in Stortinget in 2007. The reasons for not obtaining a financial external assessment were then explained. A legal external assessment was obtained. It is always desirable to have a financial external assessment as well, but the Minister of Industry then gave reasons to Stortinget why it was not carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e427	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e430	In answer to my first question, the Minister of Finance said that the Government had no plans to sell out of this agreement. You can understand that all the time that smoking has secured ten years of arrest in the state's funds as a result of the good business agreement – I quote the Minister of Finance – that was concluded in this case. It is actually a bit of a self-confidence to say that this matter has been dealt with in the way that it should actually be dealt with. Now the Minister of Finance modifies it to the current Minister of Industry has done it over the past few weeks. My question is: Is there a basis for the Government to act on its own assessment when it came to concluding the agreement – in 2007 – and with a completely different Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e437	I now get all the world's invitations to go far and deep into this matter, characterize my fellow states councils, etc. I will refrain from doing that. Of course, the store needs to get into this matter carefully. Of course, they need to go carefully into this purchase and sale. I fully understand that. There's going to be post-games in Stortinget. That questions are also raised about the purchase itself in 2007, I believe that Storting's job is also. But I am not going to comment on anything more about individual matters in these matters. When the Government filed a case for Stortinget, that means that the government is collectively behind that case. When the Minister of Industry and the Prime Minister deal with how to follow up the shareholder agreement and buy and sell on this issue to Aker and Smoke, they have the whole Government in their backs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e444	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e447	In January 2007, like the other leaders of the opposition parties in this house, I received a phone call from Smoke. It was a raging smoke, he was angry because he thought he of the Government was sitting on the sideline when the great StatoilHydro fusion happened the month before. He said in clear order: I am furious at Jens, because I supported him in the election campaign, and now I demand support. Then it was quiet for a few months, and then we were told that the support had been given to him through this ten-year shareholder agreement. For many years I have heard former representative Kristin Halvorsen rage from this pulpit against liaison, fixation and mixing between the LO and the Workers' Party and often third parties. The ownership we're facing here is completely different -- it has a different reason, a different start, a different source than any other ownership that there might be broader support around. Is the Council of State bold enough to say that there are no significant elements of contact here that it is worth getting more penetrated?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e454	The kind of arguments that Smoke has clearly presented to Sponheim that there should be some kind of ‘payback time’ on the issue of this transaction, I believe that it is completely unacceptable. There is absolutely no one who can neither defend nor emphasise that kind of argument, and there is nothing in the government's handling of this matter that has the kind of justification. I absolutely do not need to be involved in any kind of transactions that could be experienced as a friend service to someone who has given political support in a matter. It would have been completely impossible to deal with state ownership with that kind of reason. It would have put state ownership in deep discredit if there had been any kind of such intention behind. So you can only park it as the reason for the case that was presented to Stortinget in 2007. The background to this case was a desire to maintain the skills environments and jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e461	Then the Storting goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e465	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In the current year’s budget, the Government is adding up to the sale of 13.5 million. tonnes of CO2 allowances in the European market. It is budgeted with a sales income of DKK 2.5 billion. One thing is that the price of these climate quotas is almost halved in relation to estimates in the budget, and therefore revenue is going to be significantly lower. Another issue is the environmental impact of this sale. In reality, this means that the Norwegian State is making money to sell pollution – at a time when Norwegian CO2 emissions are record high and where Norway has significant revenues from the oil and gas industry, which is a major contributor to Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. While the government makes billions to sell other countries the opportunity to maintain its emissions, the same government encourages consumers in Norway to spend money on buying climate allowances, and then delete them. This is double morality. Now there is widespread mobilisation – the NHO is involved, the Nature Conservation Association is involved and other actors are involved – where a request is made that the Government, instead of selling these climate allowances, cancels them and thus reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 13.5 million. tonnes. Is this something that the Minister of Finance will consider in the context of the revised budget? In that case, I think she can count on broad support in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e482	It is important for how we get to the economic instruments and allowances – and quota prices are economic instruments for praising CO2 emissions correctly – that we get to a new international climate agreement and that it is tight. It contributes to a high level of quota prices and thus contributes to environmental conversion. Kvassheim is right that the prices as they are now are low. He's also right in that we're in a situation where this calculation looks a little different than it did a while ago. Now it's important to see what's the background. At the moment that we cover an emission, we have also made changes in taxes – there are only two different ways of pricing emissions. That is why I do not agree with the premise of Kvassheim on how that calculation is finally going. The question of buying allowances to delete them is not a question that the government has discussed, and I have no new signals to come up with in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e494	The answer from the Minister of Finance was so little uplifting that I am trying to raise a follow-up question to the Minister of Environmental Protection. By deleting allowances rather than selling them, Norway may increase its over-compliance with the Kyoto Protocol by 25 pst. instead with 10 pst. Once challenged by the Minister for the Environment, he has said that what Norway is doing is of little importance. Experience shows the opposite. Reduced prices of allowances include: a result of the high number of allowances available on the market. The leader of the Low Emissions Committee, Jørgen Randers, believes it is quite poor for a country as rich as Norway to sell the quotas. He says, ‘It would have been much better to demonstrate Norway’s willingness to go ahead in the climate battle if you chose to delete the allowances we have left over, instead of selling them. Now we are involved in postponing the solution to the climate problems, when we could have cancelled the quotas and contributed to a global climate solution." Does the Minister for the Environment think Randers is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e508	It's going to work hard to get as much as a razor blade into between Kristin Halvorsen and me on these questions. I understand the problem raised by Kvassheim, but if we had 1 billion kroner or 1.5 billion kroner of fresh funds available for climate action, which would be the alternative to what Kvassheim suggests, I would use them in a completely different way than to delete climate action. I think it's much more important, for example. strengthening support for technology development in Norway or a series of environmental measures other than eradicating climate allowances as proposed here. Let me say I share a lot of Randers' criticism. I have sent an article to Today's Business, where I also admit that I agree with a lot of Randers' criticism. What Randers is right is that climate quotas are one important tool, but if we start to see it as the only thing, we're on dangerous roads. The main reason why much of the criticism is correct is that climate allowances will not drive the new technology, and without a technological revolution, we will never be able to solve climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e517	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e520	I want the Minister for the Environment to respond. SV was opposed to climate allowances when the Kyoto agreement was concluded in 1997, but government sees that the Government – at SV – has made climate quota trade a financial instrument, where one tries to fill up the treasury by selling and buying allowances at the best price. This becomes a double standard, when one simultaneously sees the Government's Easter Climate Campaign through the «Asbjorn Climate Change Rules». Climate Regulation No. 2 was: Do not spend on flights without a climate quota. But the government itself does not buy any climate allowances when government employees or they themselves fly domestically. So one asks people most buy climate quotas, but they don't buy them themselves. And in connection with the 2009 government budget, the Evening Post wrote that the government thought it had no effect on cutting 13.5 million climate quotas, it has relatively little effect on the climate problem. What effect does the Council of State have when individuals are going to buy one climate quota, if it does not have the effect when to cut 13,5 million allowances?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e529	The reason why domestic air traffic comes in another category is that it is subject to charging. But let's go to what's the real discussion here. It is clear that a financial transaction that is what the Left – and possibly also the Advance Party – is a follower of, which would be to delete allowances for, for example, the Left. One billion, or one thousand million, dollars. I believe that if you had that amount available in the State budget for environmental action, there are other and significantly better ways to spend the money. There are two points where there is an important real criticism of the quota regime. One is the question of exemptions. There are too many exceptions. The EU system has too many holes. One of the most intense figures for multiple holes is Ketil Solvik-Olsen. So the more progressing party influence it becomes, the more holes there are in the quota system, and the less efficient the quota system becomes. The second is the issue of allowances as the only measure. The reason why we have to have other measures in addition is that the quotas tend to go against the cheapest and simplest measures first, while the technology revolution we need comes through strict regulation of the most advanced markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e538	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e541	It is quite clear that Norway will not be able to implement the Kyoto commitments only by means of measures at home. For this reason, Norway is investing heavily in, among others. hydropower development in China through the so-called ‘Green Development Mechanism’. It has broad support, because this replaces coal power generation very effectively in China. But at home, the government is so proud that it chooses to save the Weefsnava stretch, an extension that could have given 1.5 TW – two – three Alta power expansions – which would obviously have replaced European coal power with an enormous climate gain. Doesn't the Council of State see the moral contrast between how we act on the way out, and how we choose to act on the way home?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e548	Let me first say that Ivar Kristiansen is quite right in saying that the Government is betting on several horses at the same time here: on the quota system, which is the most important and broad instrument in the EU, the United States and Norway, on subsidising technology development — where carbon capture and storage are a good example — and on rainforest conservation and other international measures. In terms of hydropower, I am a strong supporter and try every day to work to produce more clean energy in developing countries. We want a dramatic increase in hydropower in Africa, and we also want to support the many investment proposals in India, Latin America, etc. in this area. In Norway, expanding new large watercourses has come to an end. The Wefsna watercourse is the only remaining watercourse that goes from mountain to sea, and very important to preserve for the sake of nature quality. I am deeply concerned about the impression I have that Ivar Kristiansen is calling for it to be converted in the next majority period. As far as I know, it will be the first time something similar is done in Norwegian history. I'm very interested in whether it's Right's View or Ivar Kristiansen's private opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e557	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e561	Climate challenges need us to have a tight climate market. But the situation is today, and as it seems to be until 2020, climate allowances will not trigger the necessary measures, and therefore we need to set rates wider than just climate quotas. Among other things, Professor Jørgen Randers This is the order of the day of business last week. Let me quote his conclusion: ‘The toolbox must contain more than global trading to avoid climate collapse.’ The world must avoid climate collapse. We have a responsibility for it. The Christian People's Party has supported Randers in this before, and I also hear that the Council of State shares much of Randers' criticism and has sent a reply to Today's Business. I then challenge the State Council here in Stortinget to tell us how SV will ensure that we have more tools in the toolbox in relation to the climate challenges we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e573	There are already many other tools in the Government's climate toolbox, but we need more. I will come back to it when I give a climate statement in Stortinget about approx. three weeks. The quota egg must be at the bottom, that's the bottom plank. It's the European Union, the United States and everyone's opinion. On top of that, we need to subsidize new technology. On top of that, we need to regulate markets in order to drive more new technologies, for example. regulate the construction market tighter, regulate the car market or stimulate the car factories to make electric cars. On top of that, we need to operate rainforest conservation. We have to do all of this together. But what I'm most concerned about – and I agree with the questioner – is that there's only one basic answer to the climate turmoil, and it's a drastic technological revolution. That revolution will take too much time at a low quota price, and even at a high quota price it will take too long through the quota market because the money will go to the cheapest measures first. That's why we need a much tougher regulation of the most advanced markets in the most modern economy, it's Japan, England, the United States, Canada, Norway, California, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e582	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e585	I think this has been a bit strange round. It is not that we should sell allowances because there is a lack of money that is the problem in Norway. It is not as the source of income for these allowances to be the main intervention. It is clear that what Norway needs much more than that money is lower emissions. We could have done that with great effect by not leaving the quotas on the market. The environmental benefit of such a sale is very poor. The Council of State is about to withdraw from the farm and negotiate a new agreement in Copenhagen, and the Minister of Finance said she wanted it to be a tight agreement to reduce emissions. My question is: had it not been a great starting point for the Council of State, when he was going to negotiate with the other countries, to say that these quotas have been zeroed out, had it been the starting point for negotiations in Copenhagen, and thus had the opportunity to show what a great deal of impact an intervention from Norway could actually have had?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e592	First, let me say that there are no international doubts that Norway is a leading country in the field of the environment. In all modesty: the next thing I'm going to do is travel to Paris to receive the prize of the Champion of the Earth. It is not private or personal; it is on behalf of Norway and because Norway is internationally seen as a leading country in the field of climate change. Then the question of whether it would be right or less important to delete these allowances. I don't have anything personal against erasing the allowances, but it's going to be spending 1 or 1.5 billion kroner on a climate action that's going to be very little accurate. It will not affect the allowance market or the price of the allowance market at least. It won't set an example for others, there's no one else who's going to follow it. I believe that it would be a much better use of such an amount to use it, for example. on technology development. But I get no response from the opposition to the question whether this really is the best way to spend 1 or 1.5 billion kroner today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e599	Two main questions remain. The President will let go of both, but he will have to reduce the follow-up questions. First Morten Højlund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e602	I will ask the Minister for the Environment and Development a question in another area where Norway is probably the world champion, namely aid. Before Easter it became known that Uganda's president had bought a new plane, he probably needed another one. As we know, Norway is about 65 million. kr to Uganda this year. According to the Evening Post, Norway accepted the flight purchase. It's not the first time Norwegian money is spent in Africa on the African elite. We are afraid that this is unfortunately not the last time either. The Zambian woman Dambisa Moyo was reasonably invited to Norway to talk about the need to stop state from the state aid to Africa. According to the evening post, her appeal to stop the assistance was strongly rejected by the council, partly her arguments were ridiculed, again according to the evening post. With all due respect, it is not the budget support for Uganda that is becoming ridiculous, not tragic. One thing is whether it's Norwegian taxpayers' job to secure the President of Uganda another plane. But more importantly, the impact of assistance, the impact of poverty reduction. Does the Council of State believe that budget support for Uganda still has the right to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e613	The questioner touches on many and important debates. There is clearly a dilemma here: what to accept from decisions in Norway is providing budgetary support or assistance. There was a broad national debate in Uganda on the flight purchase of President Museveni. We did not find any basis for Norway to stop aid to that country, even though the president does something that I personally am not very happy about – to say it carefully – namely, to make this purchase. So there was a broad, open debate, and there was considerable criticism of it, but also considerable understanding of it, in Uganda. But of course it is not that Norwegian money went to it. Then we, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, invited Dambisa Moyo to Norway because we want this debate. We don't think, as we did for a very long time in Norway, we can only assess assistance based on good intentions. It's not the most important thing. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is She promoted a criticism I have very little sense of, namely that aid does not work in general, and – above all – the belief that the capital markets are ready to pour in incredible amounts of money into Africa just the aid disappears. That argument is very weak. There is no reason to believe that capital markets are currently ready to inject a lot of money. It was difficult before the financial crisis, and much harder after. I rejected that argument. I also rejected the argument that assistance does not work. Assistance has worked enormously well in Europe. One of the reasons Spain, Portugal, Ireland or Eastern Europe is now emerging is the huge aid packages provided by the EU. The same applies, for example: what the United States gave to South Korea during the Cold War, for security reasons – it has worked. On the other hand, I gave her right on an important point, which I believe is the most important criticism of assistance, and that is that we must prevent aid from transforming a state into what we can call a beggar state, where politicians, businesses and intellectual life are striving to accept aid, instead of building a strong state, and building a productive market and a robust business. We know that it is the combination of state and market that brings out the crisis, and a beggar state is dangerous in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e628	The claim that aid works, especially for Africa, with the experience we have, I do not think it does. I do not accept the comparison with Europe, because the conditions and the way aid is given are different. We can look at Tanzania, which has been one of the major beneficiary countries of Norwegian and international aid for a very long time. Now the World Bank and the African Development Bank say that despite the assistance, poverty in Tanzania is increasing. Professor Baregu of the University of Dar-es-Salaam believes the donor countries will soon wake up. They will soon realize that the assistance is in the wrong hands. I'm not as optimistic as Baregu. I don't know if we want to wake up. African woman Dambisa Moyo did not contribute to our awakening. What does it take for us to wake up? What documentation does Solheim need to realise that the assistance does not work when given as a State aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e637	Let me first say, well, it's great that Moyo is coming to Norway, and that we have that very debate. As I said, the evening post gave a completely distorted record of that debate. Then I agree on an important point, and that is that there are some conditions for aid to work in Africa, which are different from Europe and East Asia. The main difference is that African states are fundamentally much weaker. It is not as easy for an African country to use the aid properly, as it was for Ireland, Spain, Hungary or South Korea, or Thailand or Indonesia – the countries are weak. It is not that it will solve the problem of scrubbing out private capital. There is no private capital available that will do so, and private capital faces exactly the same problems, namely a weak state and significant corruption. It is the sum of more private investment, better used assistance, assistance that facilitates more private investment and assistance that helps build a civil society, which is also important for the formation of states, and it is using all the forces we can to contribute to the creation of functioning states, which are the most important for the development of Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e644	There will be two follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e648	1 minute is too short to take a large and wide debate on aid, but there is no doubt that it is quite challenging to create development from the outside, it always happens from within. And then I want to go back to the starting point for the question, the situation in Uganda. In the 2011 election recording, there is already a great deal of concern about whether the election will be fair, whether it will be transparent, and whether it will be democratic. Information has emerged indicating that there is a great deal of abuse of power by President Museveni and his party in the preparations for the elections. Then my questions are to the Council of State, as this is one of our major co-operation countries: how does he think Norway should use its assistance to Uganda to ensure democracy and to ensure the proper implementation of the elections? And how can we ensure that our aid money is not actually used to buy a choice of sitting authorities, which is often one of the great African critics for aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e657	Let me first say that I fundamentally share Erna Solberg's starting point, namely that it is the internal processes of a country that is the most important for development. Assistance can very often be exaggerated, both in terms of positive incentives for assistance and, for those critics, in terms of the potential negative impact of assistance. It is the fundamental forces of business and state in a country that is crucial, and assistance on margins can help to improve this. Uganda is a country that was a thunderous success, if we see it in a 15-year period from Museveni took power in 1986 and beyond in the 1990s – one of the fastest growing economies with the greatest prosperity in Africa, and also reasonably democratic. But the dangers, when a leader becomes seated year after year, are the same in Uganda as in very many other countries. But we have a close dialogue on how to influence this, both through our budget support and through support for a civil society, and we are following all the worrying moves that Erna Solberg is making, very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e664	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e667	The Christian People's Party is convinced that aid benefits, that there is a clear link between democratic development and aid, and that it is important to think about the development of democracy in the countries of aid, or in the countries of cooperation. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with the situation in Madagascar, where there is a lack of a legal regime, where one does not have a national reconciliation, and the country is a Norwegian co-operation country for aid, but where the aid has stopped for understandable reasons. The question will be whether the Council of State and the Norwegian Government will help to channel some of the Norwegian public assistance funds, pending, through voluntary organisations, now in this situation, where chaos exists, so that we can reach out and continue the important work that Norway has started in Madagascar and thus contribute to the development of democracy in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e676	Yes, we will definitely consider that. I am now sending a delegation to Madagascar, with the Arild Eye, which is one of our foremost African experts, and Øyvind Dahl, who is born and raised in Madagascar and has spent a life there as a millionaire. I'd say he's Norway's leading Madagascar expert. Together with the embassy, they must assess what should be done. They will make a report on whether we should convert the aid and what political role we can play in the relationship between President Ravalomanana and the new self-declared president of the country. I will of course make that report available to Stortinget. I want to raise this question when I meet the UN Secretary-General on Monday – also with his envoy Menkerios – to see what we can do. I also want to take it up with the Americans in Washington this weekend. There is great cause for concern that Madagascar, which has been a country with 7 pst. economic growth, and which has had some progress, is now beginning to collapse, with enormous negative consequences for the population of Madagascar.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e685	Then the Stortinget is clear for the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e688	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. If the president permits it, I'll go from plane to car, but it's actually also about waking up. Next week there's a big climate summit in Tromsø. The following day, foreign ministers meet in the Arctic Council in the Arctic City. For example, there will be: some of the leading climate researchers present their very worrying last findings in this area. All this is good, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Oslo is not satisfied with the car park in Tromsø. I think that is quite remarkable, although Tromsø can sign with its own fleet of the Lexus RX400h car brand – i.e. a four-wheeler, a hybrid motor-powered car with very low emissions and low consumption. This fleet, which is in Tromsø, has previously served for notables such as President Bill Clinton, the Norwegian King and Queen and others and has performed its duties in an excellent manner. The cars are well suited in the Arctic city, especially when the themes are climate change and ice melting. Last week, however, the owners of this car park received a counter-declaration that the U.D. would rather drive up a limo from Oslo. What about the car park in Oslo that is so encouraging to the climate, the environment and the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Does the Council of State think that driving a column of limousines from Oslo to Trondheim, and then putting these limousines on the Hurtigruten up to Tromsø is a brilliant example of this climate summit?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e697	This is something I'm not familiar with. I've been to Tromsø at least two, three times just this year, and I've never, when I've looked around, noticed that the car park there is significantly worse than in Oslo. I think therefore the problem may seem somewhat exaggerated – to say it like that. I'll check what this is, whether there are security measures since there are high-ranking guests coming. But none of us believe that the car park is better in Oslo than in Tromsø. We want electric cars all over the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e706	I thank the State Council, Solheim, for the answer. I assume that the nation will not witness to a column of limousines from Oslo to Tromsø next week. I feel convinced that this column will be stopped. Speaking of this important conference, the name of the conference is ‘Melting Ice – Regional Dramas, Global Wake-Up Call’. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Norway needs to put in place a kind of Norwegian system, often called the Domestic Wake-Up Call. Does the Council agree with the need for such an alarm clock?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e713	In any case, the representative Ivar Kristiansen has now come with a very clear ‘Wake-Up Call’ from Stortinget’s pulpit, so we have to look at it. I wasn't familiar with this. That sounds interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e718	The President believes that the Storting does not get a deeper answer to this, so we end the oral question procedure and move on to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e724	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative of Vera Lyskleat to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e738	The question to the Minister for Finance is: «The advance tax of the self-employed person is due in four instalments after vesting. If you pay only a few days late, all the prepaid taxes will be payable immediately, even if the trader has not earned income at that time for the whole year and thus does not have liquidity to pay, perhaps not so much income as it is possible to do so. Will the Council of State remove this rule so that only past tax on earned income can be recovered in this way?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e747	The output of the total amount payable in advance tax is based on the expected offset tax. Prepayments are distributed in four equal instalments regardless of how taxpayers' income actually distributes over the year. I understand the question so that it is not this stencil distribution of the advance tax that is considered problematic, but that subsequent appointments are due to be paid if a term is defaulted, so-called accelerated maturity. A taxpayer who sees that the written advance tax is disproportionate to the current income has an invitation to apply for a reduction or cancellation of the output. As a result, it can be avoided that there is an unrealistically high pre-emptive tax that is defaulting and therefore leads to calls for action. The reason for the rule on the accelerated maturities of subsequent advance tax futures is that it allows to ensure the remaining futures of the advance tax if, for example: the outsourcing margin, in the event of a default of a term. This is an appropriate arrangement because it is more likely that one or more of the subsequent appointments will default when one term is first defaulted. One avoids the need, in the event of defaulting, to hold its own outlay for the subsequent term(s). If taxpayers pay the defaulted term, tax collection will normally defer further collection of subsequent dates to ordinary maturity, even if they are formally due. Specific procedures have also been developed to avoid automatic set-off in the case of goods for tax purposes. Furthermore, it is not subject to interest for late payment until the ordinary due date for the due date under the accelerated due date rules. Therefore, in such cases, it is not usually of particular practical importance for taxpayers that the subsequent dates of advance tax are formally due for payment. However, if there are clear indications that the subsequent dates will also be defaulted, tax recoverers may apply further call-back measures for the subsequent dates. It is as mentioned an appropriate scheme. The scheme indirectly provides a strong incentive for taxpayers to comply with their payment obligations at the advance stage. Experience has shown that it is far more difficult and considerably more resource-intensive for the public to collect tax claims the longer time that has gone by since income was earned. I therefore have no plans to change the rules for payment and payment of advance taxes for personal taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e769	I thank you for your answer. The Minister of Finance has understood the question correctly. I think we agree that there should be strong incentives for taxpayers to pay the tax. What is one of the problems here — but on which the question does not go into detail, and which is not answered either — is that, if you can prove, taxpayers can of course apply in advance and reduce the tax somewhat. But it's also the case – at least in some cases where people have approached me about this – that in some cases you can get a postponement with one term that you don't pay but that you pay since then, while elsewhere you get the entire written advance tax. There is a real discrimination, and I would like to ask the question: does the Minister of Finance think it is problematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e776	I have not examined whether there may be a different practice of the question that fleet is now addressing. I believe that the main principle of how we deal with this is firm. There is good reason to do so in order to ensure sound conditions and to ensure that the common fund receives the tax money to be paid to the community, and therefore it is also incredibly important in relation to the general tax morality. I'm not familiar with this being practiced differently. I suggest that the fleet write a letter to me about it, and we can see if there is anything that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e783	We agree that the rules are as good as they are. My question is more – and I understand that the Minister of Finance might be interested in looking at it – that if this is practised differently, it is quite important. That means one of two: either you have to stop being more sympathetic to some taxpayers, or you should look at the whole code. Does the Minister of Finance agree that there can be a starting point for what she may take out of the purse when she returns to the office?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e790	So first let's figure out what the actual ratios are. This is often the case when you are a big-time representative – I have experienced it many times myself – that there are some single examples that you generalise, and then it can be shown that the question is not as big as the single example can give the impression. Now let's first figure out what the actual ratios are. Written questions are very suitable for following up these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e797	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e803	My question is to the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The Community Health Service Act obliges municipalities to ensure that the radon level in schools and kindergartens does not exceed the action limit, which is currently set at 200 Bq/m3. A study by Staten Radiation Protection shows that only four out of ten municipalities have carried out radon measurements in schools and kindergartens. Only 14 pst. have taken action by those who have carried out the measurement. What will the Council of State do to increase the number of municipalities to ensure that the radon level in schools and kindergartens does not exceed the action level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e815	The next after active smoking, radon is the main cause of lung cancer development – according to the World Health Organisation, WHO. It is well documented that the risk of lung cancer increases with the radon concentration and exposure time of this substance. In this country, radon is a contributing cause for approx. 300 lung cancer deaths this year, according to Staten radiation protection. Radon is a social problem that we take very seriously. We are constantly working to reduce the radon exposure of the population. However, I believe that we need to put even more pressure on this work and assess new and more effective instruments. The ministry has recently received a report from a working group that has looked at how we can solve the radon problem. The working group points out that there is a need to amend the legislation, that existing legislation needs to be better complied with and that requirements for action against radon need to be developed. It is also necessary to focus more on information on radon, on health risks, and on who is responsible under the legislation. Before the summer I'm going to present a strategy on how to lower radon concentration in all buildings, including schools and kindergartens. It is the municipalities that are responsible for overseeing environmental conditions in schools and kindergartens. Radon was one of several areas that was specifically assessed when the Health Directorate evaluated environmental health protection in the municipalities. It turned out, as the questioner is also concerned with, that only 42 pst. by municipalities, radon measurements have been carried out in schools and kindergartens in the last five years. This number is too low, and there are huge geographical differences. In Westfold has 82 pst. by the municipalities carried out such measurements but only 8 pst. in Finnmark and Nord-Trøndelag – to take two current counties. We know that environmental health protection is being protected differently in municipalities, it also shows these figures. Therefore, we need to review how municipalities provide environmental health protection. We've asked the Public Health Institute to go through various health pressures that are caused by environmental factors. In the light of the evaluation by the Directorate for Health and the work of the Institute for Public Health, the Ministry shall decide what measures can and should be taken to ensure that environmental health protection is properly maintained in the municipalities. Environmental health protection is part of the primary health service, and of course we should look at the measures in the light of the interaction reform. Such measures may, for example: be more clearly required for the approval and supervision of schools and kindergartens, e.g. that schools cannot be approved without radon measurements. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Knowledge cooperate in getting schools approved in accordance with the regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. A 2008 survey showed that only half of the schools were finally approved under the regulation. This survey will be followed up in 2009 and we will consider further actions when we have the results on the table. This has been notified to the municipalities. It shall not be such that the working environment of children is monitored worse than the working environment of adults. The most important thing I have said now is that on the basis of the report we have received from the Working Party, the Ministry of Health and Health will, before the summer, present a strategy plan on how to speed up the work on the radon problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e830	I thank you for the answer, and have a follow-up question. Recently, the NRK reported that estimates made by the Straw liver show that 90 000 children and young people in this country can live daily in spaces where the radon level is unacceptable. State radiation protection has long been concerned that municipalities do not take the radon problem seriously enough in schools and kindergartens. According to the World Health Organization, WHO, only smoking represents a greater risk of lung cancer. Governments have a clear commitment to prevention in planning an interaction reform. Would it not be good to prevent the introduction of state resources to enable municipalities to implement the measures they themselves have identified and identified?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e839	Yes, it will, and that's why we're working on it. I stand here with a document entitled ‘Strategy to reduce radon exposure in Norway’. There is a wide-ranging working group that has created this plan. It was finished in November 2008, and then we got it in the Ministry of Health. We are now in the situation that we are driving and fine-tuning on a new strategy plan just to address the challenges of radon exposure. I fully share the questioner's commitment to the matter. It's actually important. Many people die from radon exposure in Norway every year. It is clear that the earlier the exposure occurs and the greater the magnitude, the more dangerous it is. That's why focusing on schools and kindergartens is very important. I think parents, rightly, expect that when they send the children to kindergarten, this kind of screening has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e846	I also thank you for this answer, and have a final question. There are considerable differences between municipalities in the response to environmental health protection. So all municipalities have obligations to have an overview of the extent of, among other things. radon, but less than half have been surveyed. This worries me a lot. What will the Council of State do to reduce the differences between municipalities in the response to environmental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e853	With regard to the specific issue of radon, we will come back to it quite specifically when we get this action plan completed. We're sitting on it. As I said in my main answer, special questions are related to schools and kindergartens that occupy us very much. So we've notified the municipalities that we want to tighten up in this area. How we should do that in concrete terms, I have to show you when the action plan is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e858	We then go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e864	‘There has recently been a lot of attention on road safety and, in particular, on youth accidents. Youths must undergo training in a traffic school in order to take driving licences before taking a driving test. The knowledge and attitudes of individuals acquired through training are an important basis for traffic behaviour following the passing of a driving test. What is done to ensure the quality of traffic schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e871	I am very concerned about the many serious traffic accidents which have increasingly affected young drivers aged 18 to 25. Many of these shutters come at high speed, and in some cases, drug use and the lack of seat belt use are also involved. Good grips and traffic safety behaviour among young drivers is created through knowledge of consequences and through running training with experienced drivers. The content and quality of the training provided by the traffic spheres are important for creating good postures and facilitating road safety behaviour. I am therefore very busy with quality assurance for those who provide driver training. Road traffic legislation imposes requirements on traffic spheres by establishing and operating requirements, as well as on content, scope and methods of teaching. In order for a traffic school to offer driver training, the school must be approved by the State Road Administration. In order to obtain such approval, the school must, among other things. have a professional leader who satisfies the specified requirements and those who teach at the school shall be approved traffic instructors. The State Road Service supervises the traffic spheres in order to ensure that the instruction is in accordance with the Traffic Training Regulation. In order to ensure that supervision is carried out with sufficient quality and professionality, separate supervisory sections were established in 2007. From 1 January 2008, there were oversight sections in operational operations in all five regions. In 2008, around 750 traffic ball surveillance was carried out. Over a period of two years, all traffic spheres will be monitored. Ordinary supervision is carried out during establishment and operation, followed by supervision of more closely selected themes in the training. The Directorate of Roads selects these in collaboration with supervisors on the basis of information obtained, inter alia. from the sensor body, emergency records and experience from previous supervision. In addition, specific supervision is carried out on the basis of requests from the public and others indicating a lack of specific traffic balls. Supervision of actions supported by legislation on driver training is one of several actions specifically prioritised in 2009. The government has also stated in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 that Statens vägvesen should step up efforts for the supervision of training institutions and internal quality audits. This will contribute to a stronger quality assurance of the traffic spheres.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e886	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to my question is that I have received signals from serious traffic schools that there are many unprofessional traffic schools in the market. So my follow-up question is, is this information that has reached the Minister of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e893	I experience very good communication with the National Association of Authorised Traffic Schools. They're going to meet us. I have not registered in these meetings – as I can remember – having received that type of information, so in that case there is something I have to search for. But as I said in my main response, we will now, within a two-year period, supervise all the traffic spheres. The supervision is thorough, and it is carried out in accordance with certain rules. A post-supervisory summary shall be provided and an indication of the absences shall be provided. I expect that if one comes across traffic balls that do not meet their requirements, they will be discovered in these checks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e900	I thank you again for the answer. We're going to meet a Russian time, and we're going to meet another summer. In fact, from 2007 to 2008, the number of accidents involving young people increased by 52 pst. By April 18th, I was able to read in Asker and Bærums Budstikke that a recently retired driving school teacher said of the young: ‘They run too little, lack experience and lack understanding of speed and the forces involved in traffic’.» I believe this – and certainly many with me – is very serious now in the spring. A new traffic training was introduced in 2005. The goal was to reduce the number of accidents. Should this training be evaluated? How does the Council of State view that the new traffic training has not actually functioned as intended to reduce the number of road accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e914	The new traffic training was introduced by the National Council for Forestsholm in 2005. There is no doubt that training needs to be evaluated and probably reinforced in some areas. The intention was very good, but unfortunately we see that the number of juveniles is increasing. An evaluation of driver training has been started and we aim at adjustments in driver training from 2010. I would also like to base the changes on the experience I have with six pilot projects in continuing school, where we have introduced the pilot training into continuing school in cooperation with running schools, and where the result may indicate that stretching the theoretical knowledge training over a longer period of time and more intensive training can be a way to get safer drivers. But we're now working on this, and of course we'll get back to Stortinget with it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e924	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The authorities have established safety requirements for aerodromes. Several sites are now being worked with plans to extend runways in order to meet these requirements. This applies, inter alia, to Kristiansund Airport, Kvernberget. There are signs that the expansion will be delayed, in the worst cases on ice. What will the Council of State do to maintain planned progress?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e933	The government is busy having a good and decent flight offer throughout the country. This is an important part of the Government’s commitment to take full use of the country and to ensure growth and development of community communities throughout the country. The social mission of Avinor is to operate a nationwide network of Airports and a comprehensive air navigation service. Avinor shall, as far as possible, finance the operation by means of own resources and internal co-financing. Avinor is facing major investments in the next few years and has challenges in financing all the investments. The challenges have been exacerbated by the recent fall in both passenger numbers and revenues as a result of the international financial crisis. I have a lot of understanding of the challenges this case presents in the passenger numbers, both for the airlines and for Avinor. Avinor was converted into a public limited liability company in 2003 and is thus responsible for its own investments. The company is now faced with demanding balances between making investments in projects that ensure the long-term economic viability of the company and projects that are necessary for the company to be able to carry out its social mission in the short and long term. At the beginning of April, Avinor decided to defer investments in security areas and lighting installations at several airports, including: Kristiansund Airport, Kvernberget. These are investments necessary to meet the requirements of the flight crew on the design of large aerodromes. A postponement of investments may lead to the imposition by the Air Safety Authority of compensatory measures, which may contribute to the reduction of transport standards at these airports. In addition, in the case of Kvernberget, Avinor has entered into a contract with Runway Extension AS to extend the runway to 2000 metres. The expansion of runways and security areas must be carried out at the same time. I do not yet have a full overview of the impact of the Avinor decision and would ask the Air Safety Authority to make an assessment of the case. However, it must be clear that I cannot accept a significant reduction in the transport standard at any airport. I refer you to the Soria Moria lesson, which states that the airport structure should be maintained. I have previously announced a big message about the business in Avinor now in ours. As a result of recent developments, it is necessary for me to go thoroughly through the framework conditions for Avinor, and evaluate them against the tasks that the company is supposed to solve. It is important to me that Avinor has a framework that enables them to carry out both the societal mission and to ensure good operation in the short and long term. I am doing this work in full. The results of these assessments I want to get back to the main message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e952	I understand that there cannot be an exact yes or no to my question. I just want to stress that Kristiansund Airport, Kvernberget, is an important airport in the same line with many other airports around the district. This applies not only to regular services but also to current oil activities and to future oil establishments. I also want to underline the local commitment that is up there. We have the Atlantic Tunnel to open soon, where there is local funding of about 600 million. kr as a national road project. In the case of Kvernberget Airport, 55 million has been collected. kr from business, from other companies and from schools and municipalities, so there is a great commitment around it. My question will then be: is it not right, at a time of employment problems, that such planned projects become a reality rather than using other means of spending money on the state budget to keep employment up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e961	I agree with the representative in describing the importance of the Kvernberg for business and community as well as the importance of being able to make a good progress in the development of Kvernberg and the other airports. In the case of other measures, it is clear that they are also measures that are highly desirable. The measures contained in the Government’s package of measures are also measures that are necessary and that it is important to have implemented, so there is no conflict between them. But I see the point that at a time when there may be capacity in the labour market and the economy, one should also make sure to get the necessary grip, and that's exactly what I'm working on, to look at how we, together with Avinor, can find good solutions. And I'm busy not giving up security, because security must come first whether it's aviation or it's for another kind of transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e968	I thank you again for the answer, and I trust the Council of State to do what she can to ensure that the plans for Kvernberg Airport are realised. It would seem strange if the plans that are now about to be completed – everything is ready to be developed – were stopped because of lack of money, because at the same time, municipalities and others are being motivated to come up with projects – and there are many good projects, of course – to increase employment. It is perceived as strange in the community. That is the way aviation is cyclical, and I agree with the Council of State that airports are important in a district perspective, and also in terms of having skilled jobs in the districts. That is why we are very excited about the coming message, the measures that will be taken to ensure that Avinor becomes an important tool in the area of both housing and competence jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e975	I am again very much in agreement with the description of the representative of the importance of Avinor, and aviation is, both for districts and for the development of industry in the whole country, not least in coastal areas with great value creation and long distances to a market and long distances for those working in different companies, when meeting and to and from different errands. That's why the Soria Moria Government has said that we will keep up the number of aerodromes to the extent that there are no other solutions locally. Someone does that, and we are of course in good dialogue with the municipalities about it. I was in North Norway yesterday, and like North-Møre, there are great distances, and there was still some emphasis on the importance of aviation, where one looks at him almost as a collective service. So here we have common goals, and the government is going to do the job in relation to aviation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e985	The question is: ‘I refer to the mention of road tunnel to Arna, Arnatunnelen, in the Government’s proposal for NTP 2010-2019 on page 161. The necessary planning work has been carried out, including impact assessments for this project. According to the State Road Service, it can be recommended by several trasé choices to be carried out with high socio-economic benefits and without increasing transport work. Nevertheless, this project now needs to be included in the new KS1 for the Bergen region package, while other projects in the region do not. What will the Council of State do to speed up its implementation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e994	Anyone who drives a car in Bergen, like me, has seen that the traffic situation in the city is not optimal. The roads in the Bergen area are not dimensioned for all traffic. However, it is not certain that the solution to the challenges in Bergen is always to build more and wider roads. A new route between Arna and Bergen will not necessarily increase the total transport work by car, but this may lead to the movement of traffic and to more traffic in some places, such as: in the already heavily charged place of Denmark. It is therefore very important that the transport needs and traffic situation in the Bergen region be seen in a superior and holistic perspective. I think it makes sense for road projects in urban areas to be assessed in particular, given that such sites are often a complex and interrelated traffic image. There is no point in building a new road tunnel between Arna and Bergen if the entire travel time gain is consumed by increased traffic elsewhere in Bergen. Therefore, it is more important for the Government to build the right roads rather than to build as quickly as possible. The Directorate of Road and the Railway Agency have jointly developed a concept selection for the link between Bergen and Arna. It was agreed that a new railway tunnel should be built before building a road tunnel through Ulriken, if any. The distribution is quality-sicable through a KS1 process by an external consultant. The consultant concluded that one should build roads rather than extend the rail capacity on the route. The government chose to follow the etats' recommendations. A decisive argument was that a new road tunnel could provide a monthly traffic growth in the Bergen Centre. There is no space left. It is therefore natural that a new road tunnel is included in a quality assurance process where the whole Bergens region is put in context. In the national transport plan, the government has prioritised railway tunnels in front of road tunnels in the period 2010–2019. A new KS1 for the road tunnel will not affect the possible start of the tunnel construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1005	Thanks for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that it is about finding smart solutions. In my head, road tunnel directly from Arna to Bergen is a smart solution, which significantly reduces transport work in the Bergens region. From the roundabout north of Bergen today on 24 kilometers and south of Bergen on 22 kilometers, we can then run the direct line of 8 kilometers. The deplorable lack of progress of this important road project is a telling example of the fact that the planning process related to the modernisation of Norwegian transport networks has now reached almost a parodic scale. Bergen City Council and Hordaland County took the decision to investigate at the end of 2000, and we've been on for almost nine years now. When we hear part of the answer, that the recommendation that has been made through an external quality assurance to build a road tunnel through Ulriken has actually been put aside, there is reason to ask the question again: What will the Council of State do to speed up the realization of the Arna tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1014	It is very clear from the Government that we want a new tunnel through Ulriken to be seen in connection with traffic in the Bergen Centre. Then the ball lies with the City Council in Bergen, which, as usual, is negative to everything that comes from the Government, and which is usually not so eager to take on what is their responsibility, simply to ensure good planning, so that the queues that exist in the Bergen center today do not increase, but are reduced. There's the ball. The City Council should address it, figure it out and see the Bergens region in context. So that thing is going to be solved, where you get a whole system and not a bit for bit-enhancement, as people in Bergen don't want. People who live in the centre of Bergen, people who have their daily activities in the Bergen center and people who are going to drive there feel that traffic is more than enough over Denmark's place today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1021	This is both professional and political error! The professional thing is that the trade union recommends this as a project that can be carried out today, also in the field of traffic. The industry in the region wants that. The municipalities in the region want it. It's figured out, and it can be started. It is also, with all possible respect for the Council of State, political error that it is the City Council in Bergen that strikes. There is reason to turn the issue around and point out that it is actually the government that is at the forefront of local authorities and regional authorities. Some projects are actually being carried out without consulting with and without informing the City Council in Bergen. The example is the Sotra connection, where yesterday a solution was presented that conflicts with what Bergen is putting on, namely the tunnel. In this example, it is postponed to investigate more a project that Bergen wants to realize as soon as possible. I still hope that the Council of State will work to achieve this important project more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1030	There's no resistance at the council against building a tunnel. I've been given very clear advice from my staff, which goes against this now, saying that one must build a railway tunnel first. Then there will be enough capacity to increase the number of local trains between Bergen and Arna significantly, which will help to achieve the goal we have of getting both more goods and people from road to rail. Unlike a new road tunnel, a railway tunnel will contribute to fewer cars on the roads, and not least to fewer train trains, towards Bergen and into the centre of the city. It's also an important goal to get comfortable cities, where people can live without being choked by car traffic. I'm positive for the repairs on the E16 and the renewal there, whether it's for Arnatunnel or something else, and will work for it. I have received very clear advice from the State Road Administration on what should be a priority here first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1040	‘Autostrada AS in Skien has for one year tried to register a Cadillac Escalade funeral car which is identical to other approved burial cars. In view of the bureaucratic unwillingness of the railway station in Skien, they refuse to approve the car. The requirement now is that the dealer has to have a crash test of the petrol tank for approx. 150000 kroner to perhaps get the car approved. This goes beyond the buyer. Will the Council of State clean up the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1047	For the approval and registration of a vehicle in Norway, it is necessary to provide evidence that the vehicle complies with the requirements of our regulations. These requirements may be provided by both EU Directive, ECE Regulation or Norwegian requirements, i.e. national ones. In the case of an EC type-approval, there is rarely any problem with proving that all the requirements have been met by approval. Approval shall be based on documentation from the manufacturer and, where appropriate, on the submission of a test report from the laboratory. Labelling of components will be able to replace paper documentation. For vehicles manufactured for countries with technical requirements other than those applicable in the EEA territory, there is no marking of the individual components showing compliance with European requirements and the manufacturer will not normally have carried out tests necessary to demonstrate that European requirements are satisfied. The vehicle in question has been manufactured for the US market and therefore has to be rebuilt in order to meet the Norwegian technical and tax requirements for the funeral car. After I have been informed by the State Road Administration, there has been no satisfactory documentation, either from the manufacturer or from the laboratory, that the vehicle complies with the requirements we have seen for this type of running gear in Norway. The state Road Service has stated that they are aware that a corresponding vehicle has previously been approved as a tomb. I have therefore said that the Directorate of Roads should obtain information to take a closer look at this matter, so that the same practice is followed. Although this vehicle has been approved, I must nevertheless stress that the single approval of a particular vehicle does not mean that other corresponding vehicle can be approved without satisfactory documentation. After I have been informed, a new documentation has been provided for the vehicle without the possibility for the managing region to approve this documentation either. The Directorate of Roads has so far not received a complaint against this last rejection. I have full confidence that the Road Service will follow up the case and handle it according to the rules that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1062	I'm very pleased with the Council's response. Unfortunately, I am a little sorry, because this is not a unique matter under the authority of the State Road Administration. We constantly experience that the state road services and control stations act as a state in the state, and are most concerned about finding problems instead of actually being problem-solving. I think it's a little special, because if this car had been registered as a seven-seat, it would have been fine, and if it had been registered as a van, it would have been approved at the hour, but because there should be a coffin in the back, it would not be approved. This is not the case either, as the council says, that this car has been tried to be approved after the other cars – this car has been on the Car Authority several times and long before some of the other cars that have received documentation and approval. I actually have documentation here that shows that this car has as much documentation for approval as other cars that have been approved. I guess there can't be a difference between getting a car registered in Telemark, in Finnmark or in More and Romesdal, or in other parts of the country. It has to be the same for the law all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1069	It is the same law that applies throughout the country, and as I said in my main reply, I have told you that one of them must seek to assess these approvals in conjunction, so that the requirements are the same. But I have to focus on the information I get, and I can't go into a polemic here about what's done and not done. I have received information from the Swedish Road Administration, and I have announced that one must see these things in context. The Directorate-General for Roads has a coordinating function and has made it possible to go in and see if the different regions have similar practices — what they should have. Of course they should. People shall have the same legal and non-discrimination claims either in one or another region of the country. It's important for me to stress. Of course, I should make sure that this bit is followed up, but beyond that, it is not possible for me to go into a discussion about what type of documentation has been submitted, because it is too technical in this forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1074	I'm glad the Council of State says what she says now. The council will receive the documentation afterwards, and I hope that within a very short time she will make sure to clean up this, so that this car is now approved. This affects an innocent third party who wants to do business but does not have the opportunity to do so. Applying a crash test to one car of 150 000 kroner, while many cars of exactly the same type have been approved, are of no use, even if we have evidence that cars have been approved with much less documentation. One of the challenges is that if you first arrive at one traffic station, you will not be allowed to travel to another traffic station that would have approved that car. Then you have to be at the traffic station where you meet a hopeless bureaucracy that makes you unable to clean up this. I hope that the Council of State will now ensure that it cleans up this for the benefit of the trader who wants to run his business, ensuring that this car gets signs like all other cars – which it would have got if it had only seven seats or had been registered as a van instead of as a funeral car.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1079	I am asking for an understanding that, as I said, I cannot go into individual elements of this matter, because it is not possible. Then there will be one word standing against the other. What I want to do is to check that it is non-discrimination. If there is a level playing field, and satisfactory documentation has not been provided, well, the person seeking it must be found in obtaining that documentation. That's it. It will be in all regions, but if it is such that the same car has been approved before, one must follow the same procedures that we have done in other regions – and I expect it to be done. But besides that, I can't tell you if it will lead to the case being resolved, but at least it will be followed up. I'm busy reducing bureaucracy, and I'm busy most people feel that there are open doors into the public system, not that there are unnecessary problems. So I haven't said that there are creating unnecessary problems here, because I don't have the ability to go in and compare the different elements of this case. That's what my professionals have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1089	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the research and higher education minisitizer: ‘A recent study of the system of funding for higher education shows that there is a very marked distribution of inequalities between the various higher education institutions. The study shows, for example, that the College of the South-Tronde Layer receives a much lower basic allocation per year. students other than colleges it is natural to compare with. This goes beyond the study offer and leads to a distortion of competition in relation to higher-educated schools. How do the Council of State assess this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1098	The total amount of the budget shall be allocated to each of the higher education institutions. The Board of Directors of each institution is responsible for having an activity adapted to this allocation. The budget consists of a basic allocation based on historical conditions and the effects of the performance-based indicators. With a new funding system in 2002, the value of the new teaching and research components was calculated and deducted from what had until then been the framework allocation of the individual institution. The remaining funds were defined as the basic component. The size of the basic component in relation to total appropriations will therefore vary between institutions. In the period prior to the introduction of the funding system, funds were reallocated between institutions in the university and higher education sectors to balance differences that were not based on specific cost needs. At the time of the introduction, the overall budget framework for each institution was unchanged. This means that no institution was then allowed to reduce its allocation as a result of the funding system. Average cost per person Students vary, among other things: based on the composition, location and size of the institutions. Large institutions usually have lower costs per year. student than small institutions. Institutions shall receive an overall allocation which they have the power to make available to achieve their objectives. This means that the institution itself must allocate funds to departments/ faculties, professional environments or research groups so that the institution as a whole achieves its objectives and promotes quality in education, research and dissemination. The issues under consideration by the University of Southern Trøndelag are part of the evaluation of the funding system, which the Ministry is currently in the middle of. The results of this work will be presented in the context of the 2010 State budget. The Ministry has received several enquiries from representatives of the University of South-Trøndelag regarding the economic situation and the question raised by the representative. The Ministry aims to have a meeting on this with the management at the university during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1115	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which tells us that you're looking at these relationships. I stand here with a table drawn up by the Hedmark College, an overview of the basic appropriations for the various higher education institutions. It shows that the University of Southern Trøndelag is then the worst compared to schools that are naturally comparable to – corrected for all natural differences such as study offers and size, one is left with a sub-coverage of 25 pst. There can be no point in the University of Southern Trøndelag releasing NOK 22 000 less per year. Student per student years than a student in Bergen does. It feels very unfortunate. The University of Southern Trøndelag is an attractive school with a high level of activity, but year after year the opportunities to meet this offer are weakened – the quality is weakened, and it in turn goes beyond the flow. So I would strongly urge the Council of State to take a serious look at the situation of HisST, and expect the Council of State to confirm that it is now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1124	As I said, we're going through the situation in terms of the funding system. But it's none of the colleges and universities that, based on their own situation, can judge the situation as fair or not fair. I don't think it's a single college that hasn't addressed us with similar issues, and the challenge is, of course, that the more we might look at the different components of the system, the more we are at risk of allocating any injustices by other means than today. It was a unified starting point for the funding system as it is. We're really taking the signals that we're getting, but we have a lot of problems based on very different starting points. And that's an important challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1131	I thank you again for the answer. I have a lot of understanding that it's complicated to figure this out. Still, it's hard for the university to deal with it because you don't have the insight, so it's not transparent, so you can see the way you're doing it. It has been difficult to make any sense of what is really below these differences, but it has been said from the department that there is a division of bias. It's been recognized, and you've been told to fix it. It's kind of a historical difference that's been there since 2002 and that's been going on. Obviously, this has to end once. In other policy areas, we have seen that the systems have been distorted. I expect the Council of State to do its utmost to ensure that it does so for the University of South-Trøndelag too, so that in the future it can also be an attractive college, like today, and get the flow that other comparable colleges have. So I'm asking that you now both make a transparent system so that you can count back, and that you correct the biases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1140	The University of Southern Trøndelag has a basic component of 65 pst. of its total budget, as opposed to an average of 60 pst. So that's how the University of Southern Trøndelag is well suited. What's transparent in the system, it's all beyond the basic component itself. It has, as the representative says, a historical justification, and it is quite big and demanding to decompose a basic component that has a historical justification. What's important to me now is to get a funding system that stimulates cooperation – a total of good starting point for a very good and competent college, such as the University of Southern Trøndelag and others, to do the job it's going to do in education and research. I am happy to see that there are occasions for cooperation. I'm going to stimulate cooperation in the new funding system. I hope the representative agrees with me that it is a very important aspect of the whole thing as decomposing the relatively historically based parts of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1152	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘With effect from 1 January 2009, we have received a new Public Relations Act. The new law will contribute to increased transparency in general government. How will the Council of State help municipalities to practice the new law in accordance with the letter and intention of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1161	Public law falls within the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. When I answer, it's because as a municipal minister, I'm busy with how the laws are followed up in the municipal sector. Publicity and openness are important for trust in administrations and municipalities. It is an own democratic principle that the eel can gain insight into the matters handled by public enterprises. I am busy that the municipal administration should be characterized by a high professional standard and a focus on ethics. Publicity and openness about the matters handled by municipalities is an important part of this. In addition to the fact that openness helps to show the quality of all the good work done by municipalities, it can also help to discover relationships that are less good. Such is the openness to strengthen the democratic control mechanism. The rules of public law regulate what documents should be public. In Kommunelova we have rules about meeting publicity. Together, these rules provide a good basis for openness and transparency in municipal administration. And of course, it's decisive that these rules are practiced in the right way, in line with the intentions. Openness and transparency have to do not only with what the rules say, but also with the general attitudes of the individual case manager. Even before public law came into force, I sent a letter to all the municipalities, inviting elected representatives and adding to get to know the new law. I also take advantage of all the possibilities to remind the municipalities that they have a responsibility to contribute to a trust-provoking administration, and that they must work actively for the most possible openness about the matters they handle. I am confident that the county councillors will guide the municipalities in the way the rules of public law and municipal law are interpreted, so that the practice of the rules is right and in accordance with the objective. I know that the Ministry of Justice has done a great deal of work in teaching the county councillors in the new public law and in this way facilitates good guidance for municipalities. The most possible openness will, in my opinion, give local democracy greater trust and confidence. I would like to encourage all municipalities to follow the rules on document disclosure in public law and on the public meeting in local authorities. As Minister of Municipal Affairs, I am responsible for the rules on the public meeting in the municipality of Elva. I know that Stortinget is concerned about the question of the public meeting. The Municipal Committee has now presented its position in a separate case in connection with Ot.prp. No 17, where we suggest improvements when that's the case. The case shall be debated in the Grand Duchy in May. I also intend, as a follow-up to that law, to present an additional amendment to the law, which will make the rules more precise and simple to practice for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1176	I thank you for your answer. I think it's a positive basic attitude that comes to expression in the answer. The councils show a great deal of understanding of openness, and she has a reason that matches very well with what I think is important. The new law, with effect from the turn of the year, would contribute to greater transparency and have new provisions, but we see that some municipalities continue to use the old law when refusing access. So there's a great need to school the municipalities about this. It's also the case that there are very complicated rules. So one should encourage the municipalities not only to school in this area, but perhaps have one or more key people who are so familiar with this that they can practice it according to the intention of the law, namely to contribute to increased transparency. My question is whether the Council of State agrees with that and will help to keep this pressure on getting acquainted with the letter and intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1185	The answer is yes. Fortunately, I have also registered that this is some good example. There are municipalities that themselves were early outside, who have arranged, who know the law, and who are concerned that it should be followed. At the same time, it is quite right that the representative Kvassheim says: there are examples of municipalities that unfortunately still follow the old schemes – that's what they say – but who are still saying that hm, it's still important to keep this case, this question, away from public opinion! I said that the Ministry of Justice has taken a course for the statesmen. I fully agree that it is also necessary that the statesmen, even more than we have seen now, follow up with the municipalities. This with key people thought I was a good tip.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1194	It says that the law will be evaluated when it has been tried for a while. It is then important to have a good basis for an evaluation. I don't know if the Council of State has thought about how you will follow or measure the work in the municipalities with a view to getting an overview of what the condition actually is. If one has not done so far – and this may be understandable – it is my call to the Council of State that one takes some thought about how one must do a preparatory work to ensure the basis of a good-quality evaluation, which may also be part of the process of bringing this forward in line with the main points of the law, namely, to contribute to increased public awareness in the municipal sector, which is, of course, the starting point for most of us, primarily with regard to public administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1199	I share with the representative Kvassheim’s assessment that it is important to follow up month by month in this area, take note of examples that are not supposed to be, and take note of the good examples to help make them aware. Now the government has its own website, which the Ministry of Local Affairs so far manages, and which goes on reputational construction. We're going to set a good example for municipalities, and I'm going to make sure that there's a good example of how more openness can be resolved. Then there was an important reminder – that this evaluation is well thought out. I expect that the representative Kvassheim and Left are happy with the improvements that are now in the municipality, which, hopefully, will be decided at the end of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1211	From the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion: ‘The test project with task differentiation in the city of St. Hanshaugen Oslo provides good results. The pilot project shall be completed during the harvest. Unemployment continues to rise, rising most in Oslo in this part of the city. At the same time, we see that Nav is under pressure. A unanimous Urban Committee now wants to extend the project so that the activity of the qualification centre is maintained at least at the current level. Will the Council of State grant permission to the City of St. Hanshaugen for this possibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-22.ana.ud1875e1220	This question has been postponed to the next question hour. That was the last question, and today's map is finished. Is there anyone who wants the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
