ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e23	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meeting today and the rest of the month of May – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Geir-Ketil Hansen. – Other proposals are not in line, and Geir-Ketil Hansen is in agreement with the election of the President of Odelstingen's meeting in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e39	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e48	Today, we have an odelstningsproposition to facilitate a trusting administration in municipalities and county municipalities. It is important that government and grubbing-up are responsible for the necessary and appropriate regulation of the legislation. At the same time, it must be stressed that municipalities themselves have a responsibility for good ethical practice in their activities. The government makes changes to the purpose of the municipal law. I am pleased that this is followed by a unanimous committee. But of course that's not enough. It is important that municipalities work continuously with awareness-raising and awareness-raising measures. The fact that we now have an obligation to make presentations related to the annual report could contribute to a stronger and systematic focus on the ethical aspects of municipalities and county municipalities. The majority of the Committee has noted that the Ministry has set up a working group to produce proposals for measures and guidance material which can help to strengthen self-control in the municipalities and counties. Good self-control in municipalities is important, not only in terms of the confidence of citizens, but also in order to ensure the efficient and proper use of resources. An important part of our democracy is that the public has the opportunity to be present when elected bodies have their meetings. Transparency must be balanced against privacy considerations. If a meeting is to be closed, the legal provision on which the decision is based must be recorded. There is therefore reason to point out that Section 31 of the Municipal Act states that generally elected bodies are obliged to hold meetings for open doors. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, indicate that the proposition discusses the issue of the closure of meetings. Changes are proposed to clarify the basis for the basis for closure in Section 30 new paragraph. 4th@item: inlistbox This is agreed by the majority. As regards the control committees, the majority considers that the main principle of open meetings should apply there. The majority therefore ask the Government to ensure that the main principle of open meetings is addressed by the reduced working group. The legislative changes adopted today provide a stronger framework for transparency in the municipal sector, which will help to further strengthen confidence among the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e67	I find it worrying that only members of elected bodies and parties to the case may request a closure decision before the Ministry of Legal Affairs. It follows from the Constitution § 100 fifth paragraph that the general rule should be open meetings. The public has a right of transparency, unless the overriding reasons laid down by law are contrary. People often think about privacy. It is my view that the public must have the right to have statutory checks carried out on the basis of any reasonable interpretation of the Basic Law § 100. The Progress Party is dissatisfied with the fact that the Government has not been able to promote a proposal on the public meeting, but rather chooses to push it out to a later date. The government should have taken a stand on the matter, so that the proposal could have been dealt with now. It is worrying that the principle of more publicity does not appear to be followed up by the changes in the municipal law. Even today, the legal status implies that decisions on closed meetings are to be recorded, but this must/should be adopted so that there is no doubt about this among the practitioners who refer only to the legal text of their interpretation of the municipal law. And then often the reason is convenience, I have the impression. In time, a marginal majority will use its power to close meetings without this seemingly well anchored in the current law. For reasons of confidence in political processes and decisions, I believe that minority rights need to be surrendered to oppose closure. I am very concerned that, as a general rule, the meetings of the control committees should be closed. We should have gone the other way. It creeps when the majority say they're working for it. Based on the principle of more publicity in the administration, it seems little thought – and no improvement or change is seen – that, as a general rule, one should close the meetings of the bodies whose primary task is to oversee that the administration acts in line with the intentions of good administration. I wish we could have cleaned this up with a background in changed legal conditions, so that also the control committees as a starting point should let the meetings go for open doors, and that they can only be closed where specific reasons say so. I would like to promote the proposal of the Party of Presidents, the Right and the Left and the proposal of the Party of Presidents and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e89	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e92	The left believes it is now time to implement amendments to the municipal law § 31 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox The general rule of the municipal law is that meetings of elected bodies in municipalities and county municipalities are open. The right to derogate from the general rule can be found in Section 31 of the Act. 3, which is given a wide and partly upresis design. There has long been broad agreement on the need for a new design of the exemption provisions. Today's wording creates uncertainty and confusion and also leads to meetings being closed to a greater extent than was the intention of the provision. The left wishes to clarify the determination so that it is applied in line with the objective. This need has also been recognised by the Department. The issue has been the subject of an investigation and a full consultation round in 2005, but was disregarded in the final legislative proposal in Ot.prp. No 96 for 2005–2006, on the grounds that the new Public Health Act had to be awaited. This was adopted by the Grand Duchy in May 2006. The current legislative review continues to state that the Ministry will, at a later stage, come back to a review of the rules on the public meeting. The left considers that this issue has been adequately addressed through previous consultation rounds, and we are therefore promoting a separate proposal for a specific legislative text. The Progress Party and the Right are also promoting an almost equivalent proposal. However, we believe that the first sentence of their proposal is superfluous. The left further regrets that the public has not been given access to justice for failure to exercise the right to a meeting. Access to meetings of elected bodies is a statutory right for the public following the revision of the Basic Law § 100 in 2004. There are many examples of how state officials have refused to deal with complaints from the press or the public about the lack of public meeting, and where the Civil Ombudsman has had to point out and correct obvious crimes by the elected representatives. That the ministry wants a right of appeal for the elected representatives is all right. But the public meeting is not for the elected representatives. It's for the people. It is also necessary to allow the public to review the legality of such decisions. The left finds it very difficult to maintain as a general rule closed meetings for the control committees. On the basis of the principle of more publicity in the administration, it appears little thought to continue with a general rule aimed at closing the meetings of the bodies whose primary task is to oversee management in line with the intentions of good administration. The left, therefore, stands with the Right and the Advance Party on a proposal to amend § 77 paragraph. 8, so that the legal status is such that the control committees as a starting point shall also allow the meetings to be opened and closed only where specific reasons warrant it. Trustful municipal administration requires transparency and transparency in the activities of municipalities. The control committee is the main instrument of the local authority board for overseeing and controlling the municipal administration. The activities of the Control Committee contribute to the efficient and proper use of resources in municipalities, as well as to the prevention and detection of maladministration and adverse circumstances. Publicity in the control committee will provide citizens with better transparency and an interest in self-control in the municipalities, thus providing a basis for increased confidence in the municipalities. In several municipalities, the Control Committee itself has decided that meetings are to be held as a general rule for open doors, but that the doors can be closed if cases are dealt with which allow the meeting to be closed. This shows that the control committee should be able to follow the same rules on the public meeting as other elected bodies in the municipalities. The left hand side shows you the rest of our Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:59, whether open meetings in the control committees, and advises the ministry to make changes until this matter is discussed later in the spring. I refer to the proposal from the Left and the Left, and the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e115	The representative Vera Lysklätt has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e118	Ethics in the municipal sector is a policy area where rules are only one element. The stalls and the local culture are the most important. It is good, therefore, that the Government and the Storting think so much the same way. It provides a good starting point for the important work done locally by the populace and its members. In general, local government has a high ethical standard. The legislative proposal that Odelstinget is dealing with today builds on and deepens such a practice. There's room for improvement. The proposal in the proposition is the result of a wide process. The Ministry of Ethics Forum in the municipal sector in 2006. The forum was an arena that included: These proposals were discussed with local authorities, the social partners, researchers and representatives of local community organisations. In my hearing, there were actually 112 statements that commented on the proposals. There's something about the commitment and the seriousness that the municipalities and county councils have put in the discussion of the proposals. I am confident that municipalities and county councils can and will work on ethical challenges to create an even more trusting administration. This is about the citizens’ trust in the municipalities, and it is about the suppliers’ trust in the municipality as a mission provider. It's also about reputation. A good reputation leads to a lot of success – the municipality stands out as an attractive job, a constructive social developer, and a credible team player for voluntary organisations and private activities. To the question of more openness: I feel that we are some about the value of open meetings, we have the same goal that the rules should be so good that they are used correctly. There is therefore a need for more information before we proceed. When it comes to openness in control selections, I have asked the working group to propose measures to strengthen self-control, which I have done in another matter in the past, to consider that issue. That report comes at the end of this year. On top of all the questions and examples that have been in relation to ethics in the municipal sector, I believe that the Stortinget is now taking some important steps to contribute to a more reliable administration. Let me label here seven points: Ethics are included in the scope of Community law requirements for the annual notification of work on ethics in the municipal sector Protocol of the legal basis for the decision on the closure of meetings and on the capacity of the county to legitimise decisions on the closure of meetings and on the capacity of the administrative director not to be electable to the board of municipal councils suspension of elected representatives on the basis of suspicion of electoral transparency in the case of the award of public councils – namely, the proposed change, that municipal enterprises and intercommunal companies do not decide on their own merits Then the Storting is also invited to make further decisions later in the spring when it comes to stability. I have registered that here are the private suggestions that will allow the Storting to come back to some of these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e160	It is important that there is confidence in the political treatment of the municipality. It is important that the citizens of the municipality have confidence in the politicians who sit and rule. Therefore, it disappoints me that this is not a greater urgency for the Government and the Council of State than what we have seen now. This has now been dealt with in the department and consultations have been held. Nevertheless, it takes time – time was mentioned here. Up to five years have passed since you started looking at this matter. In my opinion, there is a bit of legal certainty for the citizens of the municipalities, and it is also interpreted differently in the municipalities how to handle this. Does not the Council of State see that this is an urgent matter to maintain the confidence that local politicians should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e167	I fully agree that it is important through different laws to allow for a better and stronger basis for mutual trust. I think promise changes are a side of this case, and then it's the trust that's being created locally, which is also important. Then I'm very pleased with the two important steps that are now being taken in this case, namely that there should be protocoling of the legal basis for decisions on closed meetings and on whether stability – it should be possible to go beyond the past – and the requirement that the county council now has to legitimize decisions on the closure of meetings and on stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e175	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e180	No promise we make here can fully have such an effect that the citizens automatically gain confidence in us politicians and our administration. Trust is achieved in an interaction between a good law and people with good attitudes and work ethic in administration and politics. There should be no doubt that the government parties are too public. I therefore do not take over the criticism of the representative Thomsen. I represent a party with long traditions to ensure publication, transparency and local democracy, and we continue the tradition by carefully assessing and evaluating the circumstances that can help to increase accessibility and transparency, for example. in the control committees. This work shall not be taken lightly and we welcome the conclusions of the Committee set up. Then it's just that the Progress Party is busy and willing to sacrifice important judgements that are needed to secure and develop our democracy. In this case, the Government has put forward good, well-examined proposals, and the Government has made rapid legislative changes, for example. in Section 6, first paragraph, point (e) of the Administrative Act on Stability, which is now in the Committee. We're going to give it up pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e189	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 502]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e197	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e204	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 3, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Progress Party and Left Proposal No. 4, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e237	We vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 31 paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: In cases where the consideration of information subject to mandatory professional secrecy so requires, treatment in elected bodies shall be carried out for closed doors. A chosen body may, where necessary for reasons of privacy or other overriding private and public interest, decide that the case shall be dealt with for closed doors. The overriding public interests may include the security of the State, the consideration of the public's financial interests in private negotiations, the consideration of the public interest in civil matters, the consideration of the implementation of regulatory control and penalties and the protection of the sources of administration. Voting on proposals to close the doors is for open doors. Decisions to close the doors require at least three-quarters of the majority of the meeting representatives. Personnel matters shall always be dealt with in the case of closed doors.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e253	There will be so much talk about proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e400	First, there will be a vote between the recommendation in Section 59 paragraphs. 1 and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 59 paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Three or more members of the local or county council may bring together decisions of the elected body or local or county administration before the Ministry for the control of the legality of the decision. The same applies to stability decisions. Closing of meetings, cf. Paragraph 31 may be appealed by any person.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e416	And then the rest of I and I and I and III are going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e426	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e435	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19-lower.ana.ud2426e447	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
