ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e205	In order to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Naples, an application has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives Per Ove Wideth on 15 and 16 June. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The vara representative, Jan Fredrik Vogt, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e223	Jan Fredrik Vogt is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e229	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Sven Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Svein Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e246	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President, 5 minutes to the other groups and 10 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who receive the floor in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e255	The Nordic regions are the main strategic focus of the Government, and a total increase has been committed in recent years to prioritizing the northern regions. Svalbard is, of course, a central part of the northern regions for Norway. The management of Svalbard is based on the full and unrestricted sovereignty of Norway on the island group, as established by the Svalbard Treaty of 1920. The objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy have been established for a long time and form the basis for a stable and predictable exercise of authority. Norway has a significant responsibility for ensuring peace, stability, the protection of the wilderness environment and responsible resource use and management at Svalbard. The conditions relating to Svalbard have changed significantly since the Stortinget treated St.meld. No 9 about Svalbard about ten years ago. The Treaty conditions are the same. But the development of society at Svalbard, and not least the climatic changes, affects the activity at and around Svalbard. The Arctic temperature rises twice as fast as the global average. The annual average temperature in the Arctic has increased by an average of about 100 years. 2°C. Svalbard, on the one hand, becomes a key area for gaining knowledge about what happens when temperature rises, and, on the other hand, climate change will have an increasing and direct impact on natural management at Svalbard. The setting shows that Norwegian svalbard policy is broadly politically anchored. Initially, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the other parties for their constructive contributions to the suspension process. By virtue of their sovereignty, Norway may also apply to Svalbard all the laws of the mainland as long as the law does not conflict with the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty. Norwegian private law and criminal and procedural law apply in full to Svalbard unless otherwise expressly provided. Other legislation applies only when explicitly applicable to the archipelago. The Svalbard Act lays down this principle. The Government has carried out a thorough review of whether this principle should be amended and concludes that no change should be implemented. The Committee agrees. Foreign law not applicable to Svalbard. An increasing number of non-residents in Longyearbyen have raised several issues of foreign law. This is particularly related to relationships in which foreign nationals are married to Norwegians, and to the situation of children of foreign nationals. The Committee has noted that the Government will examine some issues in this regard and assess the need for specific rules. The Committee stresses that priority should be given to this work. Since the last Svalbard hit-up, Longyearbyen has been given a well-established local government. Local government plays an increasingly important role in the development of Longyearbyen, and the Committee is concerned that the central authorities and Longyearbyen local government find solid and good forms of dialogue. The Committee therefore recommends the establishment of a permanent consultation mechanism between the Government Polar Committee and the Longyearbyen Local Government. The employee has a very important role to play as the state representative at Svalbard. With increasing population and increasing interest in Svalbard as a platform for research and as a travel destination, the tasks of the workforce are also increasing. The Committee would stress the key function of the employee and consider that the activity must be allocated resources in order to meet the increasing activity. No one visiting Svalbard can avoid being turned off by the powerful wilderness nature of the island group. Svalbard represents a natural and cultural heritage that Norwegian authorities have a specific responsibility to preserve. One of the main objectives of the svalbard policy is to preserve the unique wilderness nature. Mainly, the environmental status of Svalbard is good. The message describes that although the movement has increased, the wildlife of Svalbard is viable and not affected by the activity on the island group. The government's discussion of achievement of objectives in relation to the environment concludes as follows: ‘Overall, the conclusion is that the extent of wild-field areas in Svalbard has been maintained.’ Nevertheless, it is easy to see that increasing activity on the island group can easily conflict with the objective of maintaining the unique wilderness nature. In particular, we see this in relation to the nature reserves on East Svalbard. The Committee has taken note of the many responses to regulatory proposals to regulate movement in these areas and asks the Government to consider the many input into the further process. In particular, the Committee points to management plans as a tool for achieving a good balance between movement and the desire for the most untouched areas as reference areas for research. Norway has long traditions of polar research, especially in the Arctic, and is considered to be a heavy research nation in this field. In recent decades, large resources have been invested in research and education infrastructure, both in Longyearbyen and New Zealand. This facilitates the strengthening of Svalbard as the international research arena. Further priority for Arctic research is widely supported. The establishment of UNIS has been a success. UNIS's ambitions and plans for further development to become a leading international Arctic study centre is a clear support target. Particular attention is paid to the importance of having room for a sufficient number of students, which is necessary to ensure quality studies and results. The Committee also points to the need for the budgetary framework to take account of the additional costs arising from the provision of field equipment to students and housing for employees. There is also an increasing interest among researchers in establishing themselves in New Ålesund. It is a pleasure to see that the establishment of the marine laboratory has been successful. The marine laboratory is now a central part of the marine research networks. The Norwegian Polar Institute and the Marine Research Institute are mentioned as important institutes supporting the research carried out on and around Svalbard. The International Polar Year has given rise to research in the Arctic, and appropriations have increased sharply. Dissemination of knowledge of Svalbard's particular nature and history is important. The Committee emphasises the role of the Svalbard Museum as a history and characteristic of Svalbard, and believes that the place of the museum as a knowledge intermediary must be strengthened. A robust presence has been and is an important tool in Norwegian swallowing policy. For a long time, coal has been critical for the Norwegian settlement in Longyearbyen. Still, the coal industry is crucial for the Longyearbyen as a well-developed family community. The government’s assessment in the wholesale notification is that coal operations should continue under environmental protection legislation and the business profitability requirement. This has the unanimous assent of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Operation of the Svea mine is planned to be closed in 2014. Large Norwegian assesses further operations in new locations in the Svea area, where operations in Lunckefjell are most likely. A decision on this will have to come back to Stortinget after the government has assessed the matter and concluded. Although coal operations have been and are important, other industries have also taken up their responsibilities. The growth of tourism as a basic industry is reflected in the increase in the number of guest days from barely 20,000 in 1991 to over 86 000 in 2007. Travel life activities in vulnerable areas require both knowledge of the actors and regulation from the authorities. The Committee points out that further growth can only take place in the context of sound environmental considerations. Most of the growth in activity and population on Svalbard can be related to Longyearbyen. The town of Isfjorden has had a significant growth in the population over the past ten years. By 31 December 2008, there were 2,018 residents residing in Longyearbyen. Now, society is facing a capacity limit with regard to local infrastructure. A similar growth to that in the last ten years cannot be expected in the future, and further growth in the population will trigger the need for large investment. Future energy security is one of the major challenges for Longyearbyen, and the consultation with the local government of Svalbard confirmed this. It is positive that the Government warns to set up a working group to review future investment needs, including future energy supplies. The setting underlines the need to give high priority to this work. Increasing traffic, changing climatic conditions and more people will make greater demands on the rescue services at and around Svalbard. The Committee considers that it should stress the need for the rescue capacity to be dimensioned and adapted in line with expected developments. Svalbard has a unique location as the base for rescue and preparedness. We were last documented by a rescue operation based on Svalbard to pick up a person from the north of Greenland. The location does not become less central when expected ship traffic results from open and ice-free polar sea parts of the year. Finally, let me give a great deal of recognition for the job done at Svalbard, both related to the exercise of authority, business and education and research. Activity at nearly 80 degrees north puts both people and equipment to the test. The approach adopted by the Stortinget today shows that an overall increase wants to facilitate good management where development and activity are adapted to the special challenges Svalbard faces — and not least will meet in the future. Among the pearls in the north is Svalbard himself the jewel. We have a great responsibility as a nation that it will continue to be like this in 10 years, in 20 years and in 100 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e323	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for a very good cooperation in the matter, which is also reflected in the vote, by the fact that many important comments there are unanimous. The objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy have been set for a long time and form the basis for a stable and predictable exercise of authority and societal development. The long lines of Norwegian svalbard policy have since 1920 succeeded in keeping the island group out of major conflict and ensuring a credible Norwegian government. Norway has a natural right to take care of national interests in Svalbard within the framework of the Treaty and applicable international law. Three main themes have been identified in the Storing Communication: the first is a robust presence with particular attention to the future prospects of the coal industry. Secondly, the island group as one of the world’s best managed wilderness areas, with challenges such as tourism and other travel. And last but not least, Svalbard's role as a platform for both Norwegian and international research, knowledge and education. The main industry of Svalbard is still coal. We would like to express our support for this to continue within the framework of environmental protection legislation and the requirement for profitability. The tourist or travel industry has flourished on the island group, which we regard as positive as long as this takes place in the context of sound environmental considerations. I stood on this platform on June 5, 2001, a little over eight years ago, warning against making the Swallowing Environment Act, which we dealt with at the time, too rigid and rigorous. During the Committee's visit to Svalbard, we were told that it had largely gone well, but in some areas there was a lack of overall and practical approach. One area mentioned was the law on the use of snowmobiles, for which it was claimed that there was a complete lack of thought, and the other was the heavy oil ban, for which alternative restrictions could be found. This is something you should consider when revising the law. I am pleased that a joint committee shares our views on finding alternative instruments to steer the movement of East Svalbard. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that a unanimous committee points out that it needs a government commitment to address the challenges of the future energy supply in Longyearbyen, and that a large majority of the committee has a realistic approach to this issue. I would also like to express my satisfaction with the Committee's strong focus on both organising and coordinating research projects, as well as evaluating research activities. An important step towards facilitating research is to explore the possibility of a fibre cable between New Ålesund and Longyearbyen. Changing climatic conditions contribute to increasing traffic on and around Svalbard. This requires that we have an operational rescue service, which is capable of performing operations in an area that is sparsely populated but with huge land and sea areas. The life-saving equipment currently consists of one service vessel and two helicopters with different capacities. It is essential that the rescue capacity is adapted and dimensioned in line with the expected development. Therefore, in particular, helicopter standby needs to be strengthened, initially by two equivalent helicopters. I would like to point out some areas where the Advance Party stands alone in the setting. Both Svalbard Local Government and several other actors raised the issue of the relationship of local government with the Interministerial Polar Committee and thought they should be represented in the sample. The Advance Party shall make provision for the local government to be given observer status in the Polar Committee, while the majority will not go so far but open up a consultation mechanism. Another area of concern is the uncontrolled passenger traffic between Svalbard and the mainland of Norway, which is the external border of Schengen. This can hardly continue as today. Finally, I would like to mention the somewhat unclear boundaries that exist between the research work of the Norwegian Polar Institute and the exercise of authority. This is something you should definitely look at. Last but not least, I would like to mention UNIS and the difficult economic situation in which it has been, and I would like to stress that in the future they need to be financially assured so that they can both maintain and further develop their research skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e349	I would also first like to thank the case rapporteur for the thorough and inclusive handling of the message. The consideration of the Committee confirms that there is a high degree of cross-political agreement on squalid policy. It's important, and it also promises the future management of Svalbard. As mentioned, it is about ten years since the previous swallowing message was submitted. Over that time, the swallowing society has undergone major changes and challenges that climate change has received greater attention. Both on the study trip to Svalbard – where my deputy took part instead of me – and during the committee’s consultation on the notification, many and engaged recordings were made. As a point of fact, let me just mention that I had the great privilege of being allowed to participate in Study Tour North two years ago – an excellent arrangement. I think it's of great value to the Storting that such a week's depression of Svalbard's problems, resources and wealth. But back to the matter. One issue many were concerned about during the hearing and the trip was the research infrastructure at Svalbard. There has been a lot of investment in a good infrastructure for research in recent years, as Svalbard has become increasingly interesting for researchers. However, it is paradoxical that these facilities, as the Committee heard on Svalbard, are more used by non-residents than by Norwegian researchers. The facilities are also not sufficiently exploited, or fully exploited, because there is too little money for operation. In the opinion of the Right, this is very problematic and, in fact, rather strange, in the light of the Government's many good intentions regarding research in the message. It is particularly unfortunate, in our view, that UNIS in the current year had to cut its budgets and cut research positions and study places. While it is gratifying that the cuts in study places were reversed in the revised national budget, in our opinion these considerations can best be addressed through increased basic appropriations for UNIS in the future. The Committee is united on a note asking the Government to give priority to the work of evaluating and, where appropriate, developing specific rules on issues of foreign law. It also addresses the question of access to secondary education for foreign children at Svalbard. Here's a lot of consideration to take, and the Right understands that this won't be a simple job. However, we would like to stress that this work is important and should start as soon as possible. Travel life is a growing industry at Svalbard. The Committee’s visit to Svalbard raised a number of questions about how strict protection rules and other regulations affect the industry. Travel life is also particularly vulnerable to Svalbard, due to seasonal dependence. We would therefore encourage industry to be included in advice in contexts where their framework conditions are concerned. The message mentions a working group of the Government will shut down to assess Svalbard’s future energy supply. The right has a vision of a CO2 neutral Svalbard, through the construction of new CO2 friendly coal-fired power plants and CO2 deposit facilities. The fact that there are many practical and cost challenges in such a vision is obvious, but precisely Svalbard himself, where we clearly see how dramatic climate change is, demonstrates how important it is to try to rethink the energy they use. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the President-in-Office for her long-standing commitment and work on issues relating both to the North and the Arctic, and not least to Arctic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e377	I also want to join those who thank the case rapporteur – both for the commitment, for a thorough work and also for a thorough contribution to the Chamber here today. Svalbard society is a vibrant society. It has a varied population, a strong environment in research and education, enthusiastic residents who care for increased influence and responsibility, and a variety of cultural and leisure activities. I would like to mention in particular the development of the Svalbard Museum, which I have followed, and which has now become a modern museum of communication and research, and which a few years ago was nomineeed at the prize «The Museum of the Year». That's a positive starting point. Nevertheless, life and society challenges in the tough climate are clumsy up to the North Pole. There has to be a good balance between creating stability on the one hand and, on the other hand, not creating a normal life-cycle society in which people beat too deep roots. It is a challenge to strike a good balance between adequate economic activity and the consideration of the vulnerable environment. Research developments in recent years since the last notification are positive. The Communication states that research and higher education should be an important part of Norwegian activities in Svalbard, and that Svalbard should be further developed as a platform for international research, higher education and environmental monitoring. Svalbard is attractive to researchers from around the world, because the infrastructure has become good, and because it is a unique arena for polar research and climate research. Svalbard as a base conducts research that is of great importance for understanding global climate change, but it is also important as a dissemination arena for exactly the same thing. It's no coincidence that several countries' leaders go to Svalbard to see and understand the climate turmoil. The current US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, has been there. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is visiting in August/September. He will discuss the climate challenges in the north and study the impact of climate crisis on the ice masses in the polar regions. The consequences of climate damage are particularly evident in the Arctic. The edge of the ice disappears because there is too much oil and gas burning around the world. When the ice melts, more oil and gas become available. Burn this up, melt the ice even faster. Ice reflects radiation from the sun, while the open sea absorbs such radiation and is thus heated. The less ice, the more radiation turns into heat. Therefore, oil and gas exploration around Svalbard and the Arctic is not the answer to the climate challenges. The sea areas around Svalbard are not open for exploration today, and Norway has the opportunity to manage so that it will protect against exploration in the future as well – at least it will be important for SV, and we will work for it. SV is very pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee states that environmental considerations should be given priority if there is a conflict between environmental considerations and other interests. The pre-war thinking shall be the guiding principle for the management of Svalbard. The objective of maintaining the scope of coherent wilderness areas remains and has also been pursued. Since the previous message, Svalbard has become less dependent on coal production as a commercial activity. Research and travel have increased in importance. There is no new grip for new coal operations, and the requirement to stand by the protective decisions that have been taken does not mean that there is no coal for long, long-term operation. In fact, operations are being considered in new locations, but in that case there will be a matter of government and collapse. It is a cross-thinking that Svalbard is both a starting point for studying climate change and an area for the production of coal, which is an important source of greenhouse gas emissions, thereby contributing to climate change. There will be an important starting point for SV in the case of coal operations at other locations. It is important, as the representative Vallersnes also pointed out, to think anew in terms of energy supply to an area as important as this. It will be the large untouched wilderness areas and the value of research and education that will be important business activities, important values, for Svalbard in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e396	Like previous speakers, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on the vote. Svalbard is in focus like never before. This archipelago has had a magical attraction to people far back in history. It is not only the bigoting committees that have wanted you, but also the adventurers, explorers, catchers, people who would lighten their lives and start feeding, seafaring, and people with a lot of research. Norway should definitely see it as a privilege that we were given the administrative responsibility for this important thing. The task of enforcing sovereignty over Svalbard involves both opportunities and challenges. On the one hand, opportunities for contact, networking and the international community in key policy areas. On the other hand, sulphide policy also represents significant challenges. The reason why our governments, with about ten years of intervals, present their own swallowing message, is to give rise to a discussion on a general level. There are few places where the statement is made so clear that everything is related to everything, like on Svalbard. Svalbard is marginal and vulnerable in several ways, not least in nature and the environment. At the same time, the island is of great strategic importance in many respects. It is striking when a Norwegian historian described Svalbard as the center of periphery. I therefore think it is also important to stress that Svalbard is not the place to carry out the major experiments. Here, the long-term counting should be more. That is what creates trust and trustworthiness both in our contracting parties and in others. This does not mean that swallowing policy should not be dynamic and adapt to a changing world. What we now see in global climate change requires the highest degree of reorientation and reorientation. Svalbard is increasingly seen as an important international hub for Arctic, environmental and, above all, climate research. St.meld. No 22 for 2008-2009 provides a good overview of the key issues and challenges facing us in the svalbard policy. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee also shows that there is a broad consensus on the main challenges and the overall objectives of this policy. This concerns the desire for a firm and correct enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty, but it also applies to the preservation of the unique wilderness nature and, above all, to the population of the island group — both to the Norwegian community and to the many from other nations operating there. The question of future coal operations is an important issue in the Communication, although it does not provide a definitive answer to what will happen to long-term coal operations. There seems to be a strong consensus that the coal industry, which is the cornerstone of the swallowing society itself, must continue until other activities can grow and fill its place. In Svea Nord, major investments have been made in infrastructure, and there is a lot of talk that it would be useful to further exploit these investments to take advantage of the adjacent fields such as Lunckefjell and the Ispallen. With the reduced exit rate the message sketches, we talk about a 10- to 15-year perspective. It could perhaps have been expected that the government had taken a decision on the question of the possible phase-out of coal operations over time. However, we understand that the resolution is difficult because it affects so many complex aspects. We record that the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani, SNSK, is in the process of impact assessment, and that the case will be submitted to Stortinget for next year. We assume that the investigations also include a review of the future role of Great Norwegian in Svalbard. Large Norwegians have a long history, and the company's operations are based on solid experience both as a business operator and property manager. It would be natural for the company to be able to take on new tasks as and when coal operations might have to stop. The communication also gives a broad overview of what is being done by research at Svalbard, and points out, among other things. on the need for better coordination of the many and different research activities. It is natural to see that research will have an even greater impact on Norwegian swallowing policy in the future, if the coal industry is phased out. An important step in achieving this is the simultaneous development of more employment offers, among others. for family members of the researchers. When it comes to the Christian People's Party's view of the research on Svalbard, I also refer to my interpellation with the Minister of Research on 5 May this year, where the theme was raised on a broader basis. We have a great responsibility for the management of Svalbard. Norway must have the ambition to take a leading position in international polar research. Therefore, building capacity and quality of the various research institutions already located in Svalbard will be a good strategy. In our opinion, Norway should now know its visitation time and equip itself to take the lead in international polar research. It will be forward-looking policy also in view of the continued exercise of Norwegian sovereignty on the island group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e417	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good and thorough presentation on an important matter. I think it is important that we are clear that there is a broad political consensus on the overall objectives of swallowing policy. Let me mention these: consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and monitoring compliance with the Treaty on the conservation of tranquillity and stability in the area of conservation of the area’s unique wild-land nature maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group; Economic activities and continued coal production are important for the maintenance of the Longyearbyen as a family community. The centre party is pleased that the Government will further facilitate research, education and travel in a way that will ensure a robust basis for long-term settlement in Longyearbyen and compatible with the objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy. Travel life on Svalbard lives by the pristine nature. There is a potential for further growth in travel life on Svalbard, especially outside the high season. The geographical location of Svalbard is ideal for space activities, and there is every reason to believe that the need for space-based services will continue to increase in the coming years, especially in areas such as social security, the environment and climate. Thus, such services will continue to be a growth industry in Svalbard. Increased maritime transport in the waters around Svalbard provides, together with increased activities in the north, new challenges in the field of maritime safety around Svalbard. An important challenge in the future will be to monitor the development of ship traffic in a good way. At the same time, the mapping of the waters around Svalbard would have to be increased and reinforced. Norway’s new seas and the withdrawal of the ice edge mean new challenges that make Svalbard more strategic than before. I would like to highlight the following comments from the Committee: ‘The Committee sees that with increasing traffic, changing climatic conditions and more people it becomes more demanding to establish and maintain a rescue service. Public rescue services are organised as a cooperative between a number of public agencies, private and non-governmental organisations.» Norway is obliged by UN Conventions to establish a search and rescue service in a defined geographical area and the Svalbard Employment Officer is a local rescue centre. The challenge for rescue services is significant in a sparsely populated area with large land and sea areas. The Norwegian authorities are responsible for the preparedness and rescue services in the area and the emergency response facilities consist, inter alia, of: by service vessels and helicopters. Due to increased activity, it is important that the rescue capacity, including helicopter standby, is dimensioned and adapted in line with the expected development. The government should assess the impact, including the environmental impact, of significant maritime traffic over the Arctic Sea, what it means for Norway, and how Norwegian administration and other actors can best be organised to meet them. In order to ensure the preparedness and oversight responsibilities of Svalbard, the Coast Guard and the staff member’s service vessel are used. Then it is worrying that the employee is without a service vessel from December to the end of April. The lease term should be extended if the needs and sailing conditions warrant. The Coast Guard contributes significantly to search and rescue operations. It's an important job that's done. The presence of the Coast Guard in the North Sea areas needs to be strengthened and the development of more extensive cooperation with other States in resolving current and future expected rescue tasks needs to be supported. Svalbard and Longyearbyen have, with their unique location, been a base for rescue and preparedness. When expected shipping comes as a result of an open polar sea, this will make greater demands on us. It is therefore important that the Government, together with the Local Government, the Employment and others, continuously assess how such development can best be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e455	I will begin by commending the case rapporteur for very good, constructive committee cooperation, and the Government for presenting an interesting and good report. The northern regions have been identified as the main strategic area of the Government, and it has thus developed its Northern Region Strategy. According to the Communication, it is based on the leadership of this strategy. In view of this, I am probably missing a little more detail on how the various measures proposed in the Svalbard Communication contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Government in the Northern Region Strategy. I believe Norway has an unused strategic resource in Svalbard. The archipelago is located in the middle of the passage between the Polhavet and the North Atlantic. Maritime transport routes that will be the shortest route across the Arctic in the future must thus pass the archipelago. The same applies to much of the shipping traffic that could absorb natural resources from the Arctic Ocean. Norway may thus establish Svalbard as a central rescue and rescue base for this traffic. Like the New Ålesund International Research Platform, this could be an opportunity to invite other countries. Asian industrialised countries, including China, Japan and South Korea, are expected to become major users of these routes across the Arctic Ocean. They'll be able to have a lot of interest in being part of this. I therefore believe it is timely for the Committee to ask the Government to investigate the impact, including environmental impacts, of significant maritime traffic across the Arctic Sea on Norway. The study should look at how Norwegian administration and other actors can best be organised to meet opportunities and challenges associated with this. I believe this is a matter in which we should take the initiative now and actually be in the forefront. I miss a concrete follow-up to the government's good intentions in investing in research. Neither present message nor St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, on the climate for research, signals a rise in the allocation of research and knowledge building in the north. Lack of funding has led foreign researchers to be more users of research facilities that Norway has invested in at Svalbard than Norwegian researchers. More specifically, I find it unfortunate that the University Centre at Svalbard, UNIS, was required to cut down on its budget for the current year and thereby reduce the number of student years' work and research positions. I notice that the government has later turned this issue around, by proposing to grant money in the revised national budget. This is positive. I expect this to be followed up more long-term in the 2010 budget. The number of research positions should be adjusted to ensure that UNIS can maintain and further develop its research competence. I have noticed that the Government will set up a working group to ensure the best possible basis for decision-making on investment needs and future energy supply opportunities. I support this, and believe that this work must be given high priority. I would like to stress that the working group must also look at the possibilities of using renewable energy as far as possible. We should not bind ourselves to a clean fossil energy solution on Svalbard, but keep the opportunity open for a diversified energy mix. This could be used as an exhibition window for a forward-looking Norwegian energy policy in these vulnerable northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e478	Over the last almost four years that I've had the pleasure of being the Council of State responsible for coordinating much of what's going on at Svalbard, it's occurred to me that there are many reasons why you should go to Svalbard. First of all, there's this unspoiled wilderness nature that's unique, and we have to do everything we can to take care of it. Well, that's what's at the top when it comes to Norwegian administration of these areas. The second thing that makes it inspiring, and which has been one of the reasons why I have visited Svalbard many times as a state council, is that the people who live in Longyearbyen, in the New Ålesund, in Barentsburg – yes, across the island group – all express themselves, and in their work contribute to achieving the goals that we set ourselves for Norwegian swallowing policy. Either you talk to representatives of the tourism industry, of Great Norse, or you talk to those who sit in the local government, run the Svalbard Museum, or have some role to play in the community in Longyearbyen, you quickly learn that you face people who are just seeing many of the reasons you have to take in the svalbard policy, and who also in their daily work manage all the difficult balances that need to be taken when you are going to live and work on Svalbard. That's one of the main reasons why a lot of the government's svalbard policy and the Norwegian society's attitude to what to do on Svalbard is actually firm. I also want to commend those who exercise their influence on Svalbard – what it may be. The second consideration behind this is that we have in recent years been given a local government on Svalbard, which, according to my concepts, has to be said to work very well, and which speaks in a good way the cause of the svalbard community when we have to draw up the lines of svalbard policy. What we meet there is a great deal of understanding also for the cross-cutting reasons, but also a creative force and a driving force in view of the development of Svalbard, for which there is every reason to give credit. The fact that a cross-political expansion over these four years has largely joined in with regard to development measures on Svalbard, we would not have come this far if we had not had dialogue with the local government. The Svalbard Communication sets out the objectives and priorities and instruments specific to Svalbard. The objectives of swallowing policy are, as I have pointed out, reasonably firm, and they have been stuck since the last comprehensive review of squalid policy in 2000. I am pleased with the broad outline that these objectives continue to receive, and I would like to pay tribute to the Committee and not least to the President-in-Office of the Council for the work that has now been done. The basis for the management of Svalbard is Norway’s full and unrestricted sovereignty. This has been established in the Svalbard Treaty and confirmed by the exercise of the powers of almost 85 years. Nevertheless, we are facing major challenges, not only for those who live on Svalbard, but also for the situation in which Svalbard is in. The Communication draws particular attention to climate change, which presents us with major and new challenges. The Arctic temperature is expected to rise twice as fast as the global average. This could lead to major changes in physical environmental conditions and have a serious impact on species and ecosystems of Svalbard. Expected reductions in sea ice prevalence will also affect the environment by making vulnerable areas more accessible to traffic and other activities. An important area in the future will therefore be to assess how, in particular, traffic can be managed so that the high environmental objectives we have set ourselves can be maintained. At the same time, climate change is paradoxically creating opportunities and expectations for an increase in activity in the north. A warmer polar sea will help to shift fishing activity northwards. Minor ice could open new routes for international voyages between east and west. A general increase in activity in the area could mean that the Longyearbyen may be of increasing importance, including: as a base for preparedness for rescue and contamination in the northern seas. I note that the Committee is also involved in the rescue and emergency services in the area, and that the rescue services at Svalbard – the police as well as the health services – are at all times dimensioned and adapted to meet such responsibilities. There's every reason to have such a focus. This is an area where, in line with the wishes of the Committee, the Government will follow developments closely and continuously assess the need for action, especially when we are now building up the continental emergency response. Since the last svalbard announcement, Longyearbyen has been given its own local democracy through the establishment of Longyearbyen local government in 2002. This has provided a more adapted exercise of authority at local level and an administration similar in terms of both legitimacy, authority and responsibility to the mainland municipal administration. Since the establishment of the Local Government, central authorities have been engaged in developing close dialogue with the Local Government. I have taken the initiative to hold regular contact meetings with the Local Government, not only to be informed of local challenges, but also to communicate government policies and expectations to local authorities. As local maritime administrations are considered to be the best and most effective way to organise local communities elsewhere in Norway, this also provides a good framework for the Longyearbyen. I will again underline the importance of having such a local government established in Longyearbyen. It has given us many good insights into the policy of Svalbard, both small and large. The coal industry at Svalbard has been of great importance to Longyearbyen throughout history. Coal mining has been on Svalbard for more than 100 years and coal is still the main industry. It is the government's opinion that coal operations should be continued. However, this needs to be done within the framework of environmental protection legislation, business economic profitability requirements and safety regulations, and in a way that supports the aim of the Great Norske Spitsbergen Kulkkompani to contribute to a robust settlement in Longyearbyen. Existing coal mining infrastructure should be used as far as possible. At the same time, it is recognised that coal operations are based on a non-renewable resource. It is vulnerable to fluctuations in the coal price, and history has shown us that unforeseen events can have major consequences for the business. Great Norwegian has a tiring time behind him. In view of this, the government also believes it is important to bet on other varied activities in Longyearbyen. This applies not least to the activity of UNIS, to the further development of Svalbard as a platform for research and education and to a further commitment to travel and space-related activities. The development of the various areas needs to be viewed in a coherent way and assessed against the overall objectives of the squalid policy, including the high environmental objectives of the archipelago. In the current administration — in Svalbard as in Norway — different cross-cutting considerations will prevail, such as: in the case of food and protection interests. Svalbard has a unique natural and cultural heritage, which Norwegian authorities have a special responsibility to preserve. The protection of the natural environment is therefore one of the long lines of Norwegian svalbard policy. All industrial activities, resource use and research shall take place within the framework of the conservation of the natural and cultural heritage of Svalbard. In the event of a conflict of interests, environmental considerations shall be of the utmost importance. At the same time, there is an objective of maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group. It is therefore important that the overall squalid policy provides sufficient flexibility and robustness both in terms of balances for different reasons and in relation to other developments on the island group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e504	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e508	As the Progress Party points out in the suspension, in practice all citizens are allowed to stay on Svalbard today regardless of whether they come from a treaty country or not. If a person from Svalbard travels to Norway, for example to Tromsø airport, there is no passport or visa control in spite of the fact that this is the external border of Schengen. I find it difficult to see that this practice can continue and will therefore ask what the Minister of Justice will do to remedy these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e515	As we have already indicated in the message, this relationship is now in the process of being looked at, so that the legislation applicable to border crossings is correctly applied. In the work currently in progress, among others: As regards the review of the foreign regulation, it is important that we take into account two considerations – that we do not create rules that are strict enough to make the Progress Party feel rigid, but that we get legislation that is functional and that takes into account, among other things, considerations such as: derives from the Schengen obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e520	I have registered that the Minister of Justice has traveled a lot to Svalbard, and that he has a great love for the island. He's not alone in having that. I want to challenge him on just this which I have taken up in a previous interpellation in ours, namely research. Although he is not a research minister, he has overall responsibility for the research activity. How does the Minister of Justice view the possibility that Norway can really take a leading position in international polar research today? Researchers are flocking to the archipelago from different parts of the world, and in many ways it is taking off. The National Audit Office also called for greater coordination and management in this field. How does the Minister of Justice view the opportunities for Norway to take greater action in order to make this an important part of the exercise of sovereignty on Svalbard in the future? I have to say that it was a bit emotive that the government cut in the appropriations for UNIS. I'm glad something was fixed up. How does he view the possibilities of completing this restoration in the next budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e529	There are some challenges here. First, it's exciting to see what's coming in the next budget, and it's under another state council. It does not prevent me from fully agreeing with the representative Lånke that the activity now taking place in the field of research and education at Svalbard is and will in the future become one of the most important platforms, also for Norwegian presence. I'm not sure if we're going to measure success compared to research at Svalbard if there's any more foreign researchers. As far as I know, the real ratio is reasonably stable. In fact, if we look at the development of UNIS, this is the case in terms of funds, from the late 1990s until the beginning of 2009, the appropriations have increased from 30 million. to 110 million. That is a considerable effort from the Norwegian side. Taking into account that Svalbard is one of the most important places in the world for climate research, it is said that Norway has a great interest in continuing that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e540	Natural resources in the north and the major impacts of climate change pose major challenges for Norway, but also incredible opportunities. The location of Svalbard in the middle of the passage between the Polhavet and the North Atlantic is unique, among others. as a rescue base, far into the future. A Joint Committee wishes to conduct an investigation in the light, inter alia, of: the environmental, geopolitical and fisheries aspects. How does the Council of State view such an investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e547	Such work as the Committee, inter alia: is concerned, both with environmental development and in particular with the rescue aspect, is a desire and a need that we also see in the Government. In particular, in the case of the rescue and emergency situation, in isolation for the Svalbard group there is a need to have a very alert look at the capacity they have. At the same time, we are in a situation where we are now opening the bases on the mainland. for bystander 24 hours a day. We're opening up a new base in Florø, and we have a larger project for the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. When doing this job on the mainland, I think it is quite natural in such a development that we must also have that perspective and the opportunities we have for development on Svalbard – not only the need, but also the opportunities for development – and the benefit we will have by strengthening the rescue and preparedness work with base in Longyearbyen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e554	The Progress Party has in the vote met a desire from several teams to have Svalbard local government participate at least as an observer in the Interministerial Polar Committee. At Svalbard we were told that the local government, which is a popularly elected body, felt something overrun in many cases, and that both themselves and others thought that they should get some better contact and greater influence over what was going on. Unfortunately, I see that we are alone in proposing observer status, but that there is a consultation arrangement between the sample and the local government. It's a step in the right direction. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he has given some thought to how this system will work in practice. How often do you intend to have consultations, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e561	First of all, when it comes to the question of whether local government should feel overwhelmed, that's not what I think. We have had regular meetings with political leaders in the Ministry of Justice and the local government. As I also said in my post, it has borne fruits. One of the reasons why, among other things: So, a few years ago, the Swallow tax was reduced, and the local government's efforts were considerable. So, I guess I'm one of the government councils that has really succeeded in bringing down a tax. At the same time, of course, the contact meetings we have had about the big message have been very good. Workshops have been held in Longyearbyen with politicians from the Ministry of Justice and with good input from local government. We also had the same thing at the latest when the message was submitted. So I believe that a consultation mechanism is not necessarily anything less bad than an observer's arrangement in relation to the Polar Committee. Consulting can help to bring forward views quickly and also take account of important issues. How often that becomes, we get to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e570	I just want to take the opportunity to address another question raised in the context of the treatment of this message, namely the relationship with children of foreign parents on Svalbard, who can represent a slightly difficult challenge in the future, not least in terms of schooling. They do not have to go to school, but they get an offer that most people use. But it's a little bit up to the parents if they want to do it. At the same time, we know that they have no right to secondary education in Norway, so that they have no further progress. The way back to the countries from which they come is often closed because they do not develop the language they have from their country of origin. We see that this can be a difficult dilemma – a problem and a challenge for political authorities in the future. How does the Minister of Justice view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e577	This is a question that I have been very concerned about. I've met many of the students in Longyearbyen. I met the very least – I ate pizza with them the last time I was up there – and I also met the two who are now Russian in Longyearbyen. We discussed issues such as: these questions. That's one of the reasons why I think we have to try to find some flexible solutions that take care of the interests of these children and these young people. An exchange agreement with the municipality of Trom is a first step and can be an opportunity in relation to this. At the same time, I am pleased that the representative Lånke in his main post here today pointed out that there are some dilemmas and some difficulties in relation to the legislation applicable to foreign nationals of Svalbard. We have notified the message, and we will now start a review together with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion to see if we are able to create some flexible solutions in this area that will take care of these children's concerns. That's all the reason, and I think it should be within reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e584	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e590	Research is one of the most important activities in Svalbard and is an important contribution to the settlement and management of the archipelago. The research environment helps to give the Svalbard community more legs to stand on. Research will continue to be one of the pillars of Norwegian Svalbard policy. Knowledge has become the main activity of the high-arctic island community. The first Svalbard exploration took place over 200 years ago. Then it was mainly French, British and Swedish who dominated the exploration of the island group. Svalbard has always been characterized by an international research environment, and it shows developments in recent years at UNIS, the University Centre of Svalbard and in the New Ålesund. UNIS was established in 1993 and graduated from the universities of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. There is a significant research activity at UNIS at the same time. half of the student population and the employees are non-residents. This helps to make Svalbard the most international research-intensive part of Norway. The location of Svalbard is an easily accessible high arctic area. It provides unique opportunities for natural science research, including research into climate change and monitoring of the marine and atmospheric environment. Norway today has large and important environments in these fields, and we must continue to invest in them. If we manage to see the above fields together, it will strengthen our position as a competence nation in north-eastern research. Svalbard is also an attractive research venue for foreign researchers, and the international presence is increasing. A total of ten nations have established research stations in the New Ålesund region. These research stations are today among the world's leading in Arctic research. Norwegian and international researchers are active in a wide range of disciplines, and New Ålesund has been an important venue for international basic research for many years. There are several reasons why Svalbard is attractive to the international research community. Due to the warm sea and air flows from the southwest, Svalbard is the northernmost easily accessible location in the Arctic. There is nowhere else as far north as you can fly to daily, and where you can easily find a modern society with libraries and coffee bars. It will be important that Norway’s research efforts and presence in the New Ålesund and UNIS do not depend on other countries. The infrastructure – which has been strongly invested in the last ten years – and the natural qualities are there. They must be used by Norwegian researchers, so that we keep up with the international research activity. It is primarily UNIS and the Norwegian Polar Institute that provide Norwegian research in Svalbard, and these institutions will continue to contribute to the fact that research is an important part of Norwegian activities at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e607	I have some brief comments on this solid setting. Firstly, I would like to stress that Norwegian research efforts at Svalbard must also lead to Norwegian research days in New Ålesund being kept up. It's very important. That's what I mentioned earlier in this big time period, and I'm not going to spend any more time on it right now. I take the floor because of two small sections on the last page of the Committee's position, first of all where the Committee asks for an investigation of the challenges, or the possibilities, of Svalbard in the event of changes in the ice conditions at the North Pole, and, at the same time, the point where we look at strengthening the rescue and preparedness situation. I would like to underline – and I have learned this, among other things. in conversations with the local government – that we are facing a link between Svalbard and the major geopolitics, in that we know that the ice in the north is melting, and we know that a situation where you do not sail along the north-west or north-east pass, but probably right over the polar regions, is moving closer. I would like to leave the thought that in such a context it would not be foolish for Norway to think that the port you are going to use will be Longyearbyen. Thinking in this way means that Norway does not allow a vacuum to arise in such a situation, but even enters and fills it where, according to the Svalbard Treaty and according to all good interests, Norway has an opportunity to fill it with activity. Similarly, as many people have been involved, a Norwegian rescue and preparedness capacity on Svalbard in excess of that of the Svalbard group, which also takes into account a larger proportion of the areas in the north towards the polar regions, will be a source of international understanding and respect if we build it up. We're just doing something that everyone wants to accept that you're doing. By making these moves in the north, we will at the same time make sure that we are clearly visible when we later get completely different kinds of discussions about what extends even further north, and what is now commonly referred to as north-eastern politics. One of the most important things to keep a peaceful and stable development in this part of the world, also north of Svalbard, I think is to act with strength in good time, because then you meet the opportunities and the trust you have. And especially in terms of port and port conditions – here I am thinking about Longyearbyen – but also in terms of rescue and preparedness, which many people have been involved in, Norway will have great legitimacy to promote action. Finally, Thorvald Stoltenberg, on behalf of Nordic ministers, has looked at how the Nordic region can act in the northern regions, and in this context he has also raised the idea of a satellite project to ensure that the areas are being monitored in relation to just maritime activities, and to attach the grip in time. In the investigation that is coming, and that the Committee has asked for, I think it is important that we really think of these major perspectives of Northern Region policy in the context of Svalbard policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e620	I am not going to contribute to a substantial extension of the debate. There are only two things I want to elaborate and clarify. The first relates to the question of research efforts in the north and Svalbard. I think it is worth taking into account that when the committee had a hearing and met the Research Council, the Research Council also underlined that we are at a very high level in research in the current year. It's not least that we've been through a period of the International Polar Year that has actually given a significant boost to research efforts with an increase of nearly 100 million. kr annually for the last three years. Now, of course, it's a challenge for all authorities to be able to move on with such a high level of research in the north. Of course, it should be an ambition for Norway to be among the foremost in polar research. In the field of research, the Research Council also recommends the development of a separate Svalbard research programme. It will provide continuity in Svalbard's research, and the Committee endorses such development. So a little bit about the issue of observer status or consultation arrangements for the local government in Longyearbyen. This has been assessed. My assessment is that it is important for the Local Government to maintain its integrity as a popular local authority, and that a consultation mechanism with the Government Polar Committee actually ensures it in a better way than an observer status in the sample. Then, of course, I would encourage the responsible State Council to establish a good, regular and predictable system that strengthens the dialogue between the local government and the government apparatus. In the end, I would like to thank you for a lot of good feedback from the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e629	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3688]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e646	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e655	Today we will treat St.meld. No 26. It is a major step on the road to a better legal aid system in Norway. Norway is one of the countries in Europe that spends the most public money on legal aid, and the Communication shows that public legal aid can be provided in a way that makes it possible for us to obtain more legal aid out of about 600 million. kr we spend this year on public legal aid. The Committee is composed of large sections of the notification, but where there is a minority, the parties themselves make their views known. Public information and guidance are mandatory, but when this fails, it is important that we have a safety net to help citizens gain their rights. The biggest change is the addition to a first line service where everyone can get up to one hour of free legal assistance. We're here to get help on all kinds of issues except business-related matters and criminal matters. Criminal proceedings could provide legal aid under the Criminal Procedures Act. 24 municipalities have tried the scheme with public service offices where local lawyers assist. In the five municipalities that have been involved in the trial project, two thirds of the cases were resolved in the half an hour you got from the lawyer. I think of those who lie awake at night thinking about and irritating themselves over the tree of the neighbor who cast shadows over the porch. What can you do with that case? Then it's good to have a lawyer who has things on the law, and who can say that the tree is so close to the limit that you can ask the neighbor to trap it. Many sleepless nights are spared! The Committee considers it important that we resolve the conflicts at the earliest possible time and limit the use of the legal instrument to resolve conflicts. We see that in 75 pst. of the child-sharing cases in the courts, one or both parents are free to bring proceedings, and these cases may have gone up to four times in the courts. One thing is the cost of these rounds, but another important element in these cases is how this use of free legal aid affects the children. Is this for the good of children? It is therefore necessary to put in place considerable efforts to resolve these types of cases outside the legal system. It is other than the lawyers who provide free legal aid. We have the specific legal aid measures that do a very good job: the street lawyer, who is doing an effort for drug users, JURK, who work especially against women and the student law aid measures, who have groups working against different subject areas. In particular, I would like to highlight the prison group. Prisoners are in a situation that makes it important to have follow-up on the legal challenges they face during acquittal. Experience from the above-mentioned measures shows that it is important to work on the spot, and perhaps in particular the Street Lawyer’s work on drug users has shown this. The types of cases covered by the scheme are limited, but the Committee points out that the list of coverage areas should not be exhaustive. The Committee has stressed that when it comes to the exercise of discretion in these kinds of cases, we must strive to achieve a consistent practice across the country. The notification states that 1.2 million households fall under the legal aid scheme. The government has already increased the income limits in this period and is proposed to increase further in the notification. A graduated balance is payable depending on your income. The Labour Party wishes to stress that within the scheme, the hourly price will be at the public salary rate, which will bring much lower legal costs. Message will be followed up by legislative proposal. Recordings that have come to this matter will be included in the work on this proposition. It doesn't help to be right if you don't get it right!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e691	First, I want to pay tribute and thank the rapporteur for a good job and for a good cooperation on the matter. Although this matter came a little late, I would also like to pay tribute to the Government for presenting this matter at the tamp of this period. As a reader in the vote, there is largely an overall committee behind the comments there. This is very important and good for the further work on the bill and for further matters on free legal aid. Free legal assistance is an important welfare and social policy measure, and it should help those who do not have an economy or those who need it to assert their right. As we know today, Norway is one of the countries in Europe that spends the most money on legal aid, but gets the least back. Finland handles 30 pst. more issues than Norway, and uses considerably less than what we do today. That's why it's in place with a review, as we have today. There has been a great deal of tension about the matter, and a lot of people have contacted us in recent years about what device the government was going to have on this matter. It was associated with very great tension with the first line service, and whether or not a public office was set up. The first line service is very important. There's something the Progress Party is happy that the Government has added up. There is today a lot of good intermunicipal cooperation, and there is a lot of good work going on in some municipalities. It is important that you now get free guidance for everyone, but it is also important that it is easily accessible, and that we get the information about this service out to all those who need it. The fact that there is now a testing scheme in some municipalities, we hope in the long term that it will become mandatory in each municipality. What is important in the first line service is that lawyers, or legal aid, should be independent. It is gratifying that there is an overall committee behind this, that these should be independent. So a little bit to the Finnish model. I am pleased that the government today has raised the income limit, but it is not certain that it will hit as well as it should have done. If you have a high income, you may have a lot of expenses, but still not get free legal aid, because your income is too high. That is why the Progress Party is moving towards the regime that the Government has set up, and rather wants a Finnish model, which is more needs-tested and based on net income. So a little bit about props. Although these are graduated, it is paradoxical that today the state first gives free legal aid to those who need it, but then demands again excesses. We wish we could do a little more with that today in this matter. In the evening of a while back, there was an article that said that there was a long queue for legal aid. That's 40 pst. multiple labour law enquiries and 35 pst. more about liabilities. It turns out that there is a large increase also among the common population, but not least among prisoners. I am therefore pleased that today we have a note and a proposal in view of the prisoners and debts. We in the Justice Committee and the Minister of Justice have been in cinema and seen a film about debt in prison. If you've gotten rid of the debt you have, it's often what it takes to get your life on the right foot. I was at the end of the summer at WayBack last week. If a question to those who have previously been aware of what we can help them with, the answer is that their debt is a big problem. Finally, I would like to mention the same thing as the rapporteur said about the volunteers. The work that Juss-Buss, JURK and Gate Lawyers do – I could probably mention more – is incredibly important. It is also important that they have predictability in the work they do and are valued for the work they do for free legal assistance. I would then like to address the minority proposals of the Progress Party and of the Progress Party and the Right in the matter, and signal that we will support the Left's proposal No. Eight, nine, eleven.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e725	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e728	The applicant's rapporteur has given a good account of the substance of the matter. I would also like to highlight all those who have contributed to the consultation process and made representations to the Committee. The Legal Notice has met with high expectations of the many who need free legal assistance and those who are in a position to offer such assistance, whether there are established lawyers or voluntary legal services. I believe that the dialogue during and after the consultation has contributed to the necessary references to non-exhaustive aspects of the communication that require further investigation. It is almost ten years since the last legal aid scheme was subject to a thorough discussion in Stortinget. It makes sense to discuss it at regular intervals, because the scheme is important for many – and because society and needs change. The legal aid scheme was first designed as a social aid scheme and, in the view of the Right, it is in that context that it should continue to be established. It implies that legal aid financed by the public should be provided mainly where the need is greatest and to those who have the worst ability to pay — and who would not be able to claim their right on their own account without the public service. The right is therefore in favour of the extension of the debt regime. These are often of great welfare importance and may relate to significant amounts for individuals. A lot of money is spent on legal aid across public budgets in Norway, both in concrete sums and in comparison with our neighbouring countries. Despite the use of money, legal services in several other countries deal with far more issues than in Norway. The notification provides a good basis for further work on legal aid issues. However, it is a little concrete on a number of points. It is in the Right's view too many loose threads in the message, because many questions are unanswered and left to the ministry for further evaluation. There is reason to ask whether this is due to internal disagreement in the Government, or in four years has been too short to settle an opinion on these issues. The right-hand starting point is that we'll never be done with the design of the legal aid institute. It still needs to be adapted to societal developments. The measurement of the offer is therefore important in the further design of the scheme. The first line service is, and shall be, secondary to the general guidance obligation of the public. The obligation to provide guidance is laid down by law. It is therefore not optional for the administration to provide guidance to the inhabitants or not. Despite both lawmaking and good intentions, all experience shows that it does not work as it should. Therefore, a supplement is important, and therefore the Right also supports several of the outlined extensions to the first line service. That being said, there are several questions we think should be discussed in more detail. These include: important that the first line service is not organised as a public monopoly. If those who constitute the first line service are employed in the municipality, giving advice involving actions against the municipality could be a long way away. Independence in the first line service is therefore very important. Lawyers or other legal counsellors must be without ties to the municipality in order to avoid doubt about loyalty. Furthermore, good control mechanisms must be established to ensure both the quality of the first line service providers and of the service itself. This could ensure the legal certainty and well-being of citizens in the first line service. It is throughout the message that combating poverty and focusing on less resource-intensive groups is an important aspect of the legal aid system we have today, and the extensions we are now discussing. It is therefore with some wonder that I have registered that the instruments proposed are not more focused on combating poverty. This has also been a repetition of the hearing in the committee and in the many requests we have received after the hearing. The notification well illuminates voluntary legal aid work as a useful and good complement to legal assistance over public budgets. Justudents throughout the country also contribute greatly and have proved particularly capable of coming into contact with vulnerable groups in society. Both in outreach activities and in active presence help people who otherwise have difficulties using the other legal assistance services. Against this background, the Right Party and the Progress Party have made proposals to assess the extension of voluntary legal aid measures. I would also like to signal that the Right will support the Left's proposal No. Eight, nine, eleven.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e754	The public aid scheme shall ensure that ‘no legal loss is caused by poor financial capacity or lack of information on their rights’, as it states in the preparatory work of the law which came in 1980. Since then, a number of changes have been made to the scheme, some tightening and some extensions. SV has been working for a long time to extend the public legal aid system both in relation to matters to qualify for such legal assistance and in order to transform the self-employment system in order to allow more people to be covered by the scheme. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure that those who do not have the money to pay for legal aid are fully or partially covered by the State. It doesn't help to have the right on its side if people don't have the money to try it out. It is an important principle of legal certainty to have their rights tested. The government is now proposing to convert large parts of the scheme so that it can reach more people. We fully support this. One of the proposals is to increase the income limit from NOK 246 000 to NOK 325000 for lone and from NOK 369 000 to NOK 600 000 for couples. This will lead to double the number of households – from 600 000 to 1.2 million – being included in the scheme. When calculating income, some actual expenditure should be deducted, so that the actual payment capacity of the individual is the starting point for the proportion of the excess. In the Communication, the Government calls for the deduction of child care and sickness costs. A unanimous committee also believes that further work on the self-sharing system should consider whether there are other deductions that might also be relevant, for example. for persons with a high debt burden. Another important suggestion in the communication is that no lawyer can demand more than the public salary of NOK 870 per person. hours within several new matters where lawyers today can take several thousand kroner per day. hour. This applies, inter alia, to: consumer cases, indebtedness, complaints in health and social matters, and social security cases, certain labour law cases and child abduction. We believe this in SV is important extensions to the scheme. Several legal aid studies show that there are other obstacles than the purely economic ones that make people not looking for a lawyer, such as: lack of knowledge that they have a legal problem or barriers to accessing a law firm. Therefore, the proposal for a first line service with nationwide public service offices is one of the most important proposals that the Government now makes. The proposal has already been under way as a pilot project since 2002 and was evaluated by State Consultant in 2004 and by the Ministry of Justice in 2006. The conclusion is that the trial project has been a success with consistently good feedback, both from those who have received legal aid, and from lawyers. The first line service must be easily accessible. It is also important to reach out to people who, for various reasons, have problems accessing such a service, for example: in the case of asylum-seekers, prisons, institutions and drug settings. SV believes that alternative legal aid measures are needed to ensure legal certainty for vulnerable and disadvantaged groups, such as those in prison. the student-driven legal aid measures Juss-Buss, JURK, Jussvermittingen, Jusshelppa in Middle Norway and Jusshelppa in North Norway. Similarly, the Street Lawyer, a low-threshold service that provides free legal assistance to people who have, or have had, drug problems. The Storting Communication provides a good basis for further work on a public legal aid scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e780	The President will give Elisabeth Aspaker the floor without turn to make any suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e783	I'm sorry that when I had the floor instead, I forgot to bring up proposal No. 7 from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e788	Now it's done. The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e792	First, a brief reflection on opposition and position. I had such a reflection the other day about child abductions. I find that the sitting government is on the same sober plane as I was in a previous phase of my life. You don't get an infinite amount of money from the Ministry of Finance. Then you have to make a proven neutral arrangement. What is actually done, which I think is very sensible, is to learn from the Finnish system and modify it to Norwegian conditions. In practice, this is done by partly extending the coverage and extending the income limits. I think it's a practical grip. I think it's a reasonable grip. I think it's good that it's the grip that's being promoted. I also think it is good that there is a kind of soberness about the production. Then I agree with previous speakers that it is important to look at legal aid as a topic of debate at regular intervals, simply because new challenges are still to come. The left supports the idea of first line service, which has been promoted. We understand why it should be further investigated. We have made some suggestions on this, and part of the investigation can at least look at what we have mentioned. I look at the wording of our proposal, No. 10, it can be seen as if we don't want a first line service. With that proposal, we simply believe that one should also look at getting an hour from a lawyer as a first-line service. If the text created confusion, it was not for that purpose. So I'd like to clarify it now. So it's a theme that, in a previous phase of my life, I got brutally right in the face, because you had collected old fun over a long time. That applies to the salary of defence lawyers. Here a power cap was taken for approx. 10 years ago. Then it had lie and proved itself without special regulations for a long time. I see from the comments from some of the parties that we are approaching a point where something has to be adjusted. It also leads to the Left, instead of jumping to where the adjustment is going to take place, voting in favour of the Right proposal, which is that you have to look at this. It's going to be wrong if, over time, there's a misunderstanding between the pay-out rate and the one that really should be right. But there should always be a reason to go through this in a sober and proper way. The left will also vote in favour of the three proposals shared by the Right and the Progressive Party. It may be useful to look at the legal aid system in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, not because we believe that the sitting government intends not to follow it, but it may be useful to look at it, so that at least you have tested it. Strengthening voluntary legal aid measures is simply a wise way to have low-threshold contact, with ever new aspects of social development. We know that the voluntary legal aid measures have been pioneers for a long time. Having this sensitivity is simply taking care of the good listener posts. A proposal to that effect will receive our support. The same is true of what I suppose everyone agrees on, but as I think it might be good to stress: when you are engaged and not disapprove of any rights, of course you have the civil rights you should have, but it may be that the actual practical situation is not there. Actually, I see it as giving the prisoners these rights as being in good line with the criminal code that was in the government's notice in that area, and that we've dealt with earlier. So some final considerations: I think when you look at the first-line service, whether it's organized in one way or another, you have to be able to address public issues in that service. The public is, of course, great in relation to the lives of people in Norway. Then the service has to be organized so that you don't get into problems with the public, that is, how the public here, which can be – I kept saying – different parts of the "comfort and wear" industry, to shorten it very easily and not use so many words on it, enters into human life, and in what way you have to make sure that you get a sensible legal advice in these areas as well. I perceive that the government is open to just taking this into account. I am also pleased that this message speaks much more soberly about poverty than the representative of Kristin Halvorsen, the current Minister of Finance, did when she put a index finger right in the face of Kjell Magne Bondevik in front of the previous roll-out election and concluded that only by a will-declaration one was rid of poverty in Norway. I think the vast majority of people sitting in this room have a much more sober and realistic relationship with this, and that hopefully it's all over with that kind of index finger. But that this happened does not belong to me of the most high-value moments in Norwegian politics – that it was thought that something that was complicated could be abolished simply by lifting a index finger and saying that it was about a simple will. I think very many Norwegian politicians are concerned about this. I think it is a good expression that we have a good common line in Norwegian policy that we should fight poverty. So we know that it's complicated and complex. The fact that in committee voting there is a reflection on how legal aid should also be used in such a context is good. Let me finally show you, for example. to the excellent work of the Church’s Bymission Street Lawyer, which is simply a co-migrant in the social offices. You don't get any rights other than those you want, but you get them. It's a good expression of a everyday light that I perceive that very many of us have in common. The left then supports the proposals No. 1-3 and proposal No. 7 and addresses the proposals that have been distributed in the seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e813	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has given an explanation of vote and has taken up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e816	I'm very pleased that the committee and the Storting go largely together for the main lines drawn up. It is very important, because there is a considerable amount of work ahead of us if we are to achieve both legislative and budgetary objectives. In the case of legal aid in Norway, the debate around it has to a very large extent been concentrated around how much we grant. I do not agree with those who have to claim that the steps taken here are taken because you are facing a controversial finance department. I believe that the Government has actually provided significant legal aid, both by raising income limits and by supporting low-threshold measures, including. Sometimes, however, we need to be able to ask ourselves the policy question, especially in big messages, about how to use the money, no matter how much money you get. Here we know that we're being granted large sums – about 600 million. kr. If we take the costs of the criminal proceedings, we'll take the billion. It should always be an obligation, whether you are in the Storting or in the Government, to discuss how we manage this money – no matter how much you have to get around the next turn. This message is an attempt to do so, and I see that the political parties in the Storting are also willing to go into that discussion together and look at: Can we get a better use of the money? There are three elements in this that have been leading the government as we have made this message, and that we have very much agreed on all along. The first is combating poverty. It's not done in a hand turn. But when we now propose to expand the scope, when we set up a first-line service, which we think can take away many things, and where we can really resolve the matter early, yes, when we want to continue to strengthen measures like the Gate lawyer, Juss-Bus, JURK and all those who are out with low-threshold offers, when we say in this message that it is a goal to raise income levels significantly, but by bringing up similar with self-esteem in many situations, it also has a very large distribution policy perspective. I just remind you that when there are two in one case, for example. a child-sharing case, and one is just outside the income limit and is not free to bring proceedings and gets into the famous legal aid dilemma, it has been the responsibility of the Government when a new model has been created, that it should be prevented to a greater extent, so that both parties are involved throughout the course and are not brutally set aside because they cannot afford to run a trial, because of process costs. So poverty reduction and the distribution policy aspect are central to this model. The other thing we have pointed out is that we have to lower the threshold in order to seek legal assistance. It has a lot to do with heads and ears, but it probably has something to do with people's perception of seeking legal assistance, going to a lawyer. So being able to get the first line service organized within public service offices means that we are a very important measure to lower the threshold in order to seek assistance. In fact, using such a model does not help 600 000 households in Norway, but 1.2 million households come below the public legal aid rate of 870 kroner and not any other price, even with high self-esteem, there is at least predictability in terms of the price of the hour. It is an important measure to lower the threshold in order to be able to seek help that you know what kind of hourly rates to pay. The third factor for us, in addition to fighting poverty, creating a lower threshold, has been that we want to help reduce the process costs for people, by not creating a system that is much more process-driven, where you get a carte blanche for free trial, for example, and where it doesn't matter to those who own the case, how extensive the case becomes. Therefore, I believe that being able to think about process reduction measures is crucial in this respect. The proportion of ownership will contribute to this, by actually getting more responsibility for the costs of the case if it becomes bulky and large. The first line service is a good example of process reduction, so that the matter can be resolved quickly. Fortunately, many of the first-line services we have already had to go have experienced that the matter will be resolved quickly within the hour set aside, which has helped to save an incredible amount of process costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e833	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e836	The party of progress appears to be illogical in part of free legal aid. The Council of State spoke several times in its intervention now about combating poverty. We've recorded that the Government is skeptical of a man who occupies poverty with self-esteem. Nevertheless, it has been shown that the government has not intended to do anything about this now, when they have not supported our proposal to consider a legal aid model without the collection of self-interest. However, I will allow myself to ask questions to the Council of State if he will still assess such a model in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e841	I think the Progress Party argues strangely in this case. First, you point out that you want a Finnish model. In my opinion, the central feature of the Finnish model is that, as far as I am aware, you have a very high proportion, up to 70 pst. So now the Progress Party has to decide: either you want a Finnish model, or you don't want it. I have to be completely honest, I want a model where a lot more people will get free legal aid in Norway and rather pay a high proportion, because then they will get a low hourly rate. That's the whole idea. This is about giving an opportunity for people who are outside today's income limits to get inside, seas with a high proportion. And then we have to make sure that the bottom is raised, so that those who don't get the props actually get more and more. The government has an ambition to do so, and that the model should be such that those who are the poorest, those who have the least income, should actually also not pay excess.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e848	One of the key points of the Soria Moria Declaration was the abolition of poverty during this four-year period. This has not happened, and now it is rather about reducing poverty. In any case, legal aid notification is an important measure to ensure the legal certainty of people, regardless of their financial position. As I mentioned in my post, there has been a repetition at the hearing bodies that it is believed that the message does not meet well enough, and you point to different groups in society that you believe will not actually get that help through the legal aid system in the future that you had expected. So my question to the Council of State is what kind of comment he has on it – that one should present a message that should be for those who need it the most, and so the feedback from the great importance of hearing bodies is that the message does not make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e857	Now it may well be that the representative Aspaker sees it negatively better than I do, because we have had a lot of discussions with the Law Association and other organisations both before and after the message has been submitted, and it is not continuous in the description of the message that it hits badly. But that there is a discussion about where the limits should go in relation to income determination, and what kind of areas the legal aid should be extended to, I warmly welcome. That is why we have a debate about this, and I must say that the enlargements that are now being wanted, and which are pointed out in the message, are not so small. There are issues of indebtedness, health and social affairs, employment, child Abduction, consumer issues that have gone to the Consumer Dispute Committee and that are very important, as well as some issues of discrimination. I feel that these are important areas. In the case of, inter alia: Prisoners, I totally agree. Those who struggle to get their right must get better help. The first line service has pointed to being a very important instrument, by seeking out prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e864	A first line measure not equal to the first line service as defined in the Communication is the Church Bymission Street Lawyer. The street lawyer simply grants rights to those who are most outlawed in society, for example: in social offices. One would think that the rights you should have, but from my experience in life it is unfortunately not always like this. Management does not always operate according to the ideals to which the norms behind it should refer. The Church's Bymission Street Lawyer is like a kind of co-wanderer to make sure you don't get any distribution in the law, but you get what you're going to have. How does the Council of States see that precisely this kind of effort, which is at least a rigorous poverty response for many of those who are struggling with life, can be strengthened in the coming time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e871	I really only have one answer when it comes to the Gate Lawyer. There are measures that need to be strengthened and that need to be complemented by all possible other schemes. That was the reason why the government chose to go into the street lawyer concept, in the sense that we chose to give money to it, first in Oslo, with a significant amount – sail if we maintained the business at the law firm in Oslo, sail if we extended the income limits, it was important to get the Gate Jurist in place. It is quite right, as the representative Dørum says, that this reaches a very special group of people who would not be reached by many of the ordinary measures. That was also the background to the Government's decision to give even more money to the Gate attorney to establish itself elsewhere in the country, including in the United States. in Tromsø. I believe that if you really want to reach those who are at least the poorest in money, to say it this way – I’m not sure they’re poor on many other things – the Gate lawyer will be a key player in relation to future legal aid in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e876	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e882	I am particularly pleased that the Government is now delivering this message. It states that 1.2 million households will fall under the new scheme. It's a huge expansion. That's good. The first line service, I think, is also an important point in the message. It makes the system more accessible to people. It can also be anti-conflict, and you can save money by getting things settled in the past. I am also very pleased that the principle that the legal aid system should be a social aid scheme and that it is a subsidiary scheme is maintained. The latter is very important, I believe, in order that the legal aid system should not become a resting place in relation to the administrative information and guidance obligation. As many depositors have certainly experienced, some people feel that the public administration is not properly complying with the information and guidance requirements. So it's important that the arrangement we're now establishing for legal aid does not become a sleep cushion in relation to the obligation of government in this respect. But the reason I took the floor is that once again I have a little trouble understanding what the Progress Party really means. They write a kind of tribute to the Finnish model in several places in the form of a note, and at the same time they have a proposal, no. 4, which proposes more of the Finnish scheme. But then, in proposal No. 6, the Government is asked not to have any excesses in the legal aid scheme. As far as I am aware, the Finnish scheme is designed to have a graduated partiality system, as the government here also adds up to it. So the question is whether the Progress Party can explain to me what they really mean: are they in favour of the Finnish system of partiality, or are they against the Finnish system of partiality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e891	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3688]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e908	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e917	Document No 8:85 concerns the introduction of mandatory infant mortality testing. Although the Committee is divided into the conclusion on mandatory city death testing, I am absolutely sure that there is a single committee and a single pool of information concerned with the legal security of the child. There is also a joint committee and a cross-political magnification that in different contexts has pinked the government to have seen the search light on selected in close relationships. Mortgage investigation is part of this. Then we disagree as to what means we can use in relation to both the Constitution § 102 and the European Convention on Human Rights Article 8. It was a joint committee that initially wanted mandatory death-city screening – this to ensure the legal security of the children and also because research could lead to the saving of several small, innocent lives. Once a child has been lost, one is in a very vulnerable situation, and for the Labour Party, it would be desirable to have mandatory investigation, also because everyone is treated equally and no one will feel particularly suspicious. The choice in close relations was one of the main themes that the working party fraction combined with the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice took on at the very beginning of this process. The question of the introduction of mandatory infant mortality testing has been one of the points that have been thoroughly discussed in this context. Losing a child is one of the worst things that parents can do, and I have to admit that it's hard to imagine that close caregivers actually kill their own children. Still, we know that this is happening, and far more often than we like to believe. It is very important to examine the place of death in order to detect any criminal acts. The best thing is to be a team consisting of a person with research skills and one who is to be obsessive, from the Forensic Institute. With two such nationwide teams to investigate the city of death within 48 hours, a few good skills and equal treatment and people who know what to look for. I would like to stress that every autopsy takes place, and is also entirely responsible for the detection of possible criminal acts, and all autopsy of children aged 0-3 years should be conducted at the Forensic Institute. I would like to stress that if there is a suspicion of unnatural death, there is no distinction between being a child or being an adult. It's, and should be, the same legal certainty regardless of age. But authority exercise by the police must have a basis of secrecy. At least as important it's preventive, to be able to uncover relationships before it comes as far as killing. One no longer needs 50 pst. probability of entering; little suspicion is enough. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has amended the regulations so that they are now obliged to notify. The obligation to notify goes ahead of the obligation to notify and a breach of the obligation to notify may result in a loss of authorisation. Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has amended the Child Protection Act so that one has an obligation to report back to alerts. The school and kindergarten shall have detailed feedback. Individuals should receive feedback as to whether this is being followed up or not. The goal is to go from fear of making mistakes to be happy to make mistakes. The Ministry of Justice concludes that such a composite team, such a thorough investigation as I have described here, and a mandatory city-of-death investigation will conflict with Section 102 of the Constitution, which reads: ‘House Inquisitions shall not be located but in criminal cases.’ Then there are those who want to change the investigative team, and those who want to change the Constitution. Finally, a constitutional change is a long process, and we will lose a lot of precious time. Where Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights applies, it shall be shown that other countries are subject to mandatory city-of-death investigation. To that I have two questions: What other country? How is the content of this study? It is precisely because we want such a comprehensive investigation that provides the best possible legal protection and the best possible basis for detecting any criminal acts, that the conflict with Constitution and the EMC Article 8 arises. For example, even if children die in the hospital, there will be a thorough examination of the home. In the choice between having a team composed of one with research competence and one that is to obsessive, from the Forensic Institute, but to have this voluntary, and to change the composition and content of the investigation, but then get it mandatory, I am sure that the best legal certainty gives us children by choosing comprehensive but voluntary investigation. It is such a thorough investigation and composition of the team that has the greatest opportunity to discover any criminal acts, thereby giving the greatest legal certainty to children. On behalf of the Government Party, I request that a petition be submitted for a decision from the time it is annexed to the Protocol to a communication proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e954	There is a very important matter that has been raised by the proposers here, and the Progress Party fully supports both the comments and the proposal. This is a very delicate topic. Violence in close relationships has been discussed very many times in this room, and the committee has agreed on it. It is therefore regrettable that we do not agree on this important matter as well. It's dark numbers that probably haven't come out, and it's very important to focus on this. Strengthening children’s legal certainty in Norway can never be done often enough. Such site-of-death studies have already been carried out in other European countries, and it is regrettable that the Government does not follow this up but is hiding behind the Constitution. But now it's going to be a transmission proposal, and it's at least a little step on the way. I want to focus on a small matter in connection with this, and this concerns the appointment of an assistant lawyer for children who have died. It is a proposal that was raised in the case of victims and relatives, which we had for a year back, and it is also being addressed now. It is an important step to ensure the legal certainty of these children, and I had hoped that the Government could follow up and support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e967	The rapporteur has explained the position of the government parties. For the Right, it is completely incomprehensible that a government that openly boasts of having violence in close relations as a field of activity does not see the importance of measures like this to strengthen the legal protection of the very least of us — young children who have no other to defend themselves when they are their parents and the most important caregivers who commit abuses against them. The right-hand approach is that action must be undertaken by society so that minimum legal certainty is not sacrificed at the expense of adults’ rights. It is difficult to understand and accept that the Norwegian Constitution should be able to stand in the way of measures that can detect serious crime and kill small defenceless children. Norway has taken on heavy obligations both in relation to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and in general human rights in order to provide children with safe and protected growth. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, this clearly indicates that Norway is following other countries and is introducing mandatory site-of-death testing in the case of the sudden and unexpected deaths of young children. In this context, it is a paradox that the amendment of the law that allows the police to enter people's homes in order to check that weapons are kept properly is not considered unconstitutional. But investigating the place where a young child has died, in order to bring clarity to cause, is said to be unconstitutional. The right has taken note of the Law Department’s opinion that it is likely that a mandatory site of death study would be illegal. If this is not a legal package for anything else, the Law Department must be able to be interpreted in such a way that it is possible to end up with a different conclusion from what the Government has done so far. From statistics, among others: In the Child Death Project, we know that in Norway, killings of young children are perpetrated by the nearest family every year. It is the duty of society to ensure that these killings, too, are clarified, and that the one or those behind them are exposed and held responsible for their lies. In this context, the site of death study can provide clear police justification and could also have an important preventive effect. It is quite remarkable that the Government of the revised national budget provides for a voluntary study, when the Child Death Project in its 2004 report is quite unambiguous in its recommendation that only mandatory studies can provide adequate protection for young children. Most of the parents thought it was a good thing to be able to be checked out of the case and be told that there was no criminal relationship. This clarification was important in order to be able to put the tragedy behind. Parents describe it as a relief to have a ‘exclusion of a criminal offence’ in the same routine way that one would do if the deceased were an adult. It can prevent rumors and gossip that add stone to the burden. There is reason to dwell on the following issue: whether the Constitution deals with routine surveys when adults die, to exclude criminal matters, how can it be contrary to the Constitution to do just as routine work when young children die? During this period, cross-political work has been undertaken to strengthen the legal certainty of children. Against this background, there is a major setback and a logical flaw when the Government now establishes a voluntary system of site-of-death studies. Even though the government in this matter has come out of the hope, it should have learned from the jump hill that it is still fully possible to pick up and set a good impact. This has not even been tried by the Government and the Minister of Justice in the present case, and despite clear recommendations from the Child Death Project. I would also like to remind you of and highlight the considerable efforts that the Stine Sofies Foundation has made when they have worked on these kinds of issues. The arrangement of the government is best compared to the parental meeting at school. The parents the teacher would prefer to talk to, will not come. There is good reason to fear that a mandatory offer of voluntary site of death study will suffer the same fate. I guess you shouldn't be a big fortune-teller to realize that parents or other related people who actually have something to hide will hardly accept the voluntary offer, and will do what's in their power to avoid a death-place survey. The Norwegian police have internationally distinguished themselves with their competence and competence in the fight to detect violence and abuse against children. Maybe we should now sweep a little for ourselves? Later this week, the Minister of Justice shall be the host of a European Minister of Justice meeting where violence in close relations has been informed to become the main topic, where a report on current issues and measures in this country is to be submitted. It must be allowed to point out that the government's handling of this matter then comes in a strange light, because in this area Norway obviously does not go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e995	Is the representative of Aspaker going to make some suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e998	I can do that, but I actually thought Solvency Horne, who was before me, had done that. We have two joint proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1003	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1006	I would first like to say that it is very good with such a great commitment to all the parties in this matter. The sudden death of infants and young children is in itself a major tragedy for those who remain, and the question of the cause will be central. We have also seen, in the case of sudden, unexpected infant death and research in Norway, that there has been a strong global trend, and that the figures related to sudden unexpected infant death have fallen significantly, not least because of counselling on infant rental, after research has shown that back rentals are more favourable than magic. So in the wake of an offer to be made – that the government actually establishes something that has not existed before – a debate has been launched that has also resulted in the proposal that is here today. I think the most important thing to stress here is that you actually put in place a system that hasn't been before, and that thus improves the condition both legally and medically in relation to what has been before. I think that from the point of view of the criticism raised by the opposition, it drowns in this debate. It is not the case that previous governments have taken an initiative to put this in place – while Knut Storberget and the sitting government do. In discussions with the Ministry, the government parties have stressed that it must be an objective to investigate as many of the cases of death as possible, precisely with a view to ensuring that there is a criminal record. You can view this from two different tracks. One is the purely forensic trail, which means that something criminal may have happened here – it is important to get to the bottom of the criminal that has happened, and thus to have all the cases investigated if possible. That's the one lead. The second track is that it also has a significant medical side, which has been seen not least in research on sudden, unexpected infant death. When a team – which will consist of forensic practitioners, probably also with pediatric competence, plus some with police competence – is to be involved and examined, attention should be paid to both legal and medical matters. As a result, there has been a discussion with regard to the organisation of activities. Now it seems that it will be at the Institute of Public Health, with competence also in research, that one will organise it, and thus as part of the health care system, but where it is legally also taken care of. With regard to the problem that if relatives make a reservation for a survey, this could be the case in those cases where something criminal is not wanted to be discovered. The government has underlined that if there is a suspicion of criminality, an investigation will be carried out. A request may also be made for an investigation. In this case, the fact that someone is making a reservation against it must be justified and may in itself be a reason for the fact that in those cases it is necessary to investigate. What we're going to focus on in SV, when it comes to the problem, is that we don't want to be the enemy of good here. Now we must not risk the matter being pushed out even further in time, for many have waited for this to be put into system. Then you gain experience with the studies when they start, also related to the objections that have come, in order to see what this gives that has not yet existed. In addition, there is a strengthening that the proposal is now being submitted, so that the Ministry may also assess it in connection with the implementation of the scheme against the objections raised by the opposition. This means that it is with respect for the objections that the case is being dealt with, and it is with respect for the opposition's objections that one seeks to get the scheme started. That's why I think the opposition will be well served to subdue some of the criticism, because you have to realize that the fact that a system is actually going to be started is better than having the legal status we have today. It is not that one can get the impression that the state is getting worse by the fact that the scheme is initially designed to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1023	It is a very important thing that has been put on the agenda. I must, like others who have taken the floor, ask why the Government believes that children between the ages of zero and three who die unexpectedly must have less legal certainty than anyone else. Why do you make a special health care scheme for these young children, when we know that one in five children between the ages of zero and three who die unexpectedly dies of either care failure or criminality. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes to introduce a voluntary health care death centre study – a health team that is not authorised to carry out a mandatory investigation, as the police can do, and as the police do in all other cases where unexpected death occurs, i.e. where the deceased is from four years up, as I understand it. In the context of the State budget this year, the Health Committee wanted the Government to make such an inquiry compulsory and to take a decision on it. The government investigated this and found that a health team could not carry out such a mandatory investigation, because it would be unconstitutional. Ergo concludes the Government that for this reason this must be done on a voluntary basis. The team must ask to get in and conduct such an investigation. If the Government believes that the same legal certainty should apply to all, regardless of age, they had to conclude that the same should be done when a child of four years or more or adult dies unexpectedly. It's completely impossible for me to understand what the government is taking here. We have recently had several cases that suggest that a rapid death attempt may be crucial to either abolishing a suspicion, and fortunately, this happens in most cases, or getting evidence where it is necessary. I assume, like the representative Aspaker, that in cases where there may have been some criminal activity, a health team will not let in at all to investigate the crime. And autopsy is in many cases not enough. Here I personally believe that the government parties must turn around. If they do not do so today, they have time until Friday and the revision of the national budget – that is where the Government formally decides on the matter. The suspension of the revision contains proposals from the opposition parties to make death-place investigations in case of sudden infant death mandatory and to ensure that this occurs. In other words, children between zero and three years of age who die unexpectedly shall have the same legal certainty and regime as that applicable to all other age groups — this should also apply to them. It may be positive that the proposal is now being proposed to the Government. But in that case it must be because you intend to change your position until Friday, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1040	The centre party is busy strengthening the legal certainty of children in Norway. We know that there is a lot of hidden power that is not stopped, or where punishment is not condemned, because those who become the frame are children. Of course, the most defenseless are the very least of them. We think it's well enough documented that even several killings happen every year that are not being investigated because the killer is a small child. We know that in many other countries the investigation of the city of death is mandatory when minors die. The center party agrees with those who say that we should have such a system in Norway too. It has clearly expressed its spokesman on health issues in public debates we have had in the last few years. We think it's a pity when we're now in a situation where a majority in Stortinget wants to introduce mandatory city-of-death investigation, but where the consideration of the Constitution implies that we have to concentrate on the second best solution. The central party is therefore pleased that we have put forward a proposal for transmission. Of course, we support it. It is important that we still have an open debate on this, as we have had in the last year. So what is the way forward to replace the second best with the best? When I read the letter from the Minister of Justice who attached the setting, and the review in St.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009, it seems to me that we need a new assessment of the choice of an arrangement under the Ministry of Justice and an arrangement under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. That's where I think we should start with a new round of items that I hope can be started and implemented quickly. The new system for city death screening, which will be launched from 1 July, is described in St.prp. No 67, currently under consideration in the Financial Committee. As it is today, all sudden deaths among children under the age of three are to be regarded as suspicious and reported to the police. In all of these cases, an autopsy shall be performed. One shall provide a mandatory offer of city-of-death screening in the event of all such deaths. Parents should be able to reject the investigation. The public debate has, among other things: result in another combination of these themes. They shall have personnel with police competence but not directly associated with the police. The doctor to attend shall be a member of the team. The team shall be obliged to report to the police any suspicion that any criminal activity may have occurred. There will also be a general intensification of the obligation to notify the election of the fact that the election is to be held. I believe it is necessary to note that in certain cases it is punishable not to report it, and that health professionals may lose the authorisation in the event of a breach of this obligation. In the Central Party we support the ongoing evaluation of this new scheme. We support her being put into action, but we still want an open debate. In addition, we would like to be provided with information on how to place the responsibility for investigations under the Ministry of Justice will provide a faster and just as good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1056	We who are big-time representatives are representatives of the Norwegian people. That means that we should be listening posts for frustrations and injustices that are discovered. But we are also listening posts for those who have little or no voice – those who do not have the ability to perform the injustices you experience. It is clear that, through the inter-political work done here on the Stortinget, among other things. I've been in, we still reveal that the legal certainty of children is not good enough. I also think it is thought-provoking when we see the revelations that have been within social security, that it is possible to ‘invent’ children, and that their existence is not being checked. It also means that there may be children who exist, but you don't check their existence. So maybe it can disappear children in our society without anyone really discovering it, if you don't have a social network that makes it discover. All of this means that we have a lot left with regard to children's legal certainty in Norwegian society, in line with the fact that we also have challenges for adults. The left has intended to support these two proposals that have been made, on the basis of that argument, and on the basis of the long-standing commitment and work started when we had the Minister of Justice chair in this area. I am very amazed at the answer given by the Council of State. It seems like you're going on an autopilot. Because the proposal comes from the Storting, you're just trying to find a reason to reject it. And this Constitutional Argument is very strange in relation to the other positions the Government has regarding the intervention in private homes. It's e.g. those control mechanisms for the possession of weapons in the committee setting. Today we have rules for intervention in private homes. This does not seem to be as important as it is that you are uncertain whether a child has died a natural death, or whether death is caused by others. Now the Council of State has the opportunity to have a slightly more humble attitude in view of the fact that there can also come good ideas from this hall, sail if the Council of State has not found on that sea. I give him the opportunity – if this is to be turned into a transmission proposal – to have a slightly different tone than the one I perceive in the reply letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1067	If there is one question I think we should all be humble, it is the jam this question. I'm a little surprised at Trine Skei Grande's characteristics of what comes from the department. I had expected something more, to be completely honest. It is true that the Department of Law has – and it may well be that the Left has forgotten it, since it is beginning to be a long time since it was put in the Ministry of Justice – a constitutionally free role to be able to give opinions on legal issues. And I think it would be very critical of me if I did not pass on to Stortinget what the Law Department on a free basis – not under my constitutional responsibility – actually says about the constitutionality of the proposals that come up in Stortinget. That I'm being accused of going on an autopilot, I'm reacting very much, especially because it's hurt, this topic, where we all have an enormous commitment to trying to raise questions about children's legal certainty. I see clearly that these are cross-cutting considerations, and you can choose, like the Storting minority, to say that the legal assessment made is wrong – and that you do not agree with that. I choose in this round to focus on it because I think what you're doing now for the smallest and most vulnerable is a very important step forward to strengthen their legal certainty. It is important to stress that this project is now under way – which was also the subject of the representative, Mr Ballo – but including the voluntary nature of the scheme. I would like to point out that the question of volunteering is a difficult issue in this matter. It must be said that as many parents as possible want this type of study, as the representative of Aspaker said. I think so, too. That this is voluntary, so far there will be no problem if there are many who really want this, among other things. to clarify a suspicion. It is true that in the case of the protection mechanisms provided by the Constitution and by the European Convention on Human Rights, which the Left traditionally aims at – namely privacy and the possibility of protection against interference in one's private sphere – for some such investigation could be particularly burdensome, especially in cases where a child is lost and there is no criminal offence, and where one feels that one is being invaded. At least we have to have this with us – although I believe that everyone who says that most people would view this scheme as useful, and welcome it, is right. In this way, voluntary action will also ensure that such a study is carried out. So a little bit about this that there was going to be a difference between adults and children in terms of legal certainty in this area. I think that is wrong. This is a step towards strengthening the legal certainty of children in addition to the legal certainty of adults because they have a system of voluntary site-of-death studies that they do not have for adults. And it's not like the police are moving out and conducting death-place investigations in any acute adult death. Here we have the situation that we get a system where, although there is no basis for suspicion, we can have a voluntary — but nevertheless — death-place survey carried out. This is, in this way, strengthening children's legal certainty. Then I'm very comfortable making the minority proposal for a transfer proposal. I've always said in this process that I think it's very difficult balances, and I think we should be able to do them on an ongoing basis. Especially when we are launching a voluntary scheme, we should, after it has been launched, assess to what extent it is successful. It is quite clear that, on the part of the police and justice sectors, we need to follow this regime carefully. And I'm going to assume that the police -- in the situations of death among young children, and where access to the Mortgage Investigation Project is denied -- may have an argument to assess the suspicion criterion, in order to intervene. That's why I think it's useful to be able to evaluate this continuously when the project is started, to see to what extent the respective models work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1087	This case is a little strange. We hear that almost everyone who's been up on the pulpit really agrees that that's the second best solution you're going to go for. The best solution would be to introduce a mandatory site of death study now. When the government parties – and the Council of State – now want this turned into a transmission proposal, I want to know: What does this mean in concrete terms? And when, in that case, will the Stortinge get this case back, when there is obviously a majority in the Chamber to make the investigation mandatory now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1094	As I said at the end of my post, I believe that when you start this project now, we will be able to gain valuable experience on how it works. With regard to the process that is taking place, I believe that with regard to this type of crime, no government is going to throw waste on possible changes to the project, not the changes that have been proposed – which I understand, but where we have been presented to constitutional counter-arguments that make it challenging. These, too, need to be able to assess and see whether something can be done to improve the functioning of the established system. However, this is natural to do once the impact of the action proposed and initiated has been seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1101	Although the Department of Law has a specific role in the departmental structure, the Council of State is constitutionally responsible for this department as well. So to the matter itself. When you read the letter from the Department of the Committee, you get the impression that this study is considered by any other study, that there is a kind of inventory study in a home. I think you have to think of this as something quite different, namely that it is the legal certainty of young children you have here. And then I think the limit, even in a legal sense, should be considered to expand somewhat in relation to what has been common in the past in the case of small children. It may be that the development of justice should be in the child’s favor in the future. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees that there may be other ways to organise this, which means that a mandatory investigation can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1110	I don't want to prejudge what might come out of an evaluation of what we're doing now, but I said in the answer to the previous line that I think we're going to be open to other types of models, to the extent that we see that what's in progress is not working. Until then, the fight against this type of crime is too important. When it comes to the issue of the role of the Law Department, I just have to clarify again – since I am accused of going on an autopilot, with reference to this letter – that it is not that we sit in political leadership and in the Government and approve the Legal Service's advisory opinions. It's important for me to stress. I think it's very valuable that the Law Department just has this freedom. In those cases where you would like to think that the solution is obvious, we also need good counter-conceptions. I believe that is what is happening in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1117	I won't follow up with the Law Department, sail if it's tempting. I would like to discuss what appears in the comments, namely that the Department of Law believes that such a check-up would be an intervention in the private space. However, the Council of State has fought through legislation related to weapons that allows the police – sail if no one believes that a criminal act has been committed, and no one believes that it can be a criminal crime scene – to conduct a house survey because you are a gun owner. What is the Minister of Justice's assessment of this? Is it more dangerous that someone is armed, and is a violation of the Constitution at this point more important than in the case of a suspicious child's death, so that an intervention here would be greater than against a gun owner?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1126	The representative, Skei Grande, assumes that the inspection options available to him in respect of the Arms Act are unconstitutional. I disagree. It is, in my opinion, established by a broad majority of the Stortinget also that it is not unconstitutional. That is because the provision of the Basic Law, and in this case the question of house inquisition, is a discretionary assessment. It can also be read in the Law Department’s opinion that this has to be assessed. There's no stencil you put on, and then you get into conflict with the Constitution or whatever. When it comes to weapons, you get a warning, as far as I remember, a certain amount of time in advance before the police arrive. You also need to consider how the weapon is stored. It's probably a little less extensive than what you're thinking about in the context of a site-of-death study. I think it's been the tongue on the scale, given that one thing goes against the Constitution, while the other does not go against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1133	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1138	It's a very important topic to address here. There is a lot of evidence that, following the public debate, children’s legal certainty in practice is too poor and that the systems are deficient since examples come up again and again. The evening post today announces the requirements we set for those who care for our children. We've seen, as Skei Grande mentioned, that social security is paid to children that we don't have the control of whether they exist or not. It is essentially because this discussion is also about the subject of site-of-death studies. I would like to say that, in the opinion of the Centre Party, very important steps are being taken in the summer. The situation is getting far better than it has been, and it deserves great praise from the government. The discussion is essentially whether this is sufficient. We know that important work has been done in this area, among other things. the Child Death Project has mapped out large numbers of darkness. I think this is an area of society where there are many taboos. Perhaps many of us have difficulty imagining that parents, guardians and caregivers can commit these kinds of crimes against innocent children. But the empirical evidence suggests that in the period after 2004, there are between five and ten killings that have not been detected, simply because we lack information, and we lack the procedures to obtain information. The killing of eight-year-old Gjerstad in ours also showed the importance and vitality of site investigation, simply for clarification. That's why, as magnification representatives, we have a great responsibility for getting this information on the table, and that we get a good enough basis to run cases against the criminals in the cases that might happen. The conclusion is that the views of the Centre Party on this issue are clear. It should be a compulsory scheme. It's about the legal certainty for children, it's about generalising a system for those who are so unhappy that they lose their children, and it's not least about a preventive signal, namely that we send out the clear signal that there are some owls in the swamp, we intend to discover it. This proposal will be converted into a transmission proposal. We are very pleased about that. Of course, we will work intently to ensure that this will be assessed and implemented on an ongoing basis. Then there's a question and a challenge to the opposition: I think it's strange if you're now hard on hard and don't accept the transmission proposal, that you make sure that such a good proposal is voted down in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1159	Several have pointed out that the legal protection of children is too poor. Examples of this have also been mentioned. That exposure is unmistakably priceworthy. When I asked for the floor, however, it was because both Elisabeth Aspaker and Laila Davøy were concerned that with the approach chosen here by the Government, children are getting a lower level of legal protection than adults in the case of the site of death. It is a claim that cannot be contradicted. It has also been corrected by the Council of State. I have, through the work of a doctor on a number of occasions, been present in homes where adults have died, and it is, as the Council of State also points out, exceptional that this means that police resources are deployed or, for that matter, people with forensic knowledge have to carry out that investigation. I can count those cases in one hand, over the 26 years I've been a doctor. So what you get here is a team that will be ready to do these tests when you ask for it. It is such a significant legal strengthening of the situation that has occurred. Compared to adults, there can be no doubt that children come out much stronger. So I'm surprised that you stick to that kind of claim, because it indicates that you either don't have any knowledge of how to generally perform deathplace studies in adults when they die in their homes, or that you deliberately want to give a signed picture to create the impression that children now have a lower level of legal protection than they actually get. I also ask myself that the opposition, who has previously been in government, has not got this in place. So now it's going to work out. Everyone agrees that it should be put in place. What is the point of perhaps pushing the matter even further in time, when you can both get a forensic doctor, who is most likely to have pediatric competence, and also a person with police authority, who can be present and conduct the investigation? What is added to this, and which I think is far too few, is research skills to monitor all deaths — at least, I think, almost all deaths in Norway for children under three years of age — so that medical reasons can be found and, if necessary, also contribute on a global scale to ensuring that measures are taken to prevent sudden unexpected deaths. Just because there are two aspects to taking into account here, both legal and medical, these considerations need to be balanced against each other. The government has explained why you have landed on what you have landed on, and has also said that you are going to evaluate the consequences of this scheme on an ongoing basis. Then I think there is very little substance left in the criticism that is now coming from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1174	I have to say that I have not become wiser either after the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo's first post or the second post. I think it is with him, as with the other speakers from the position, very clear through that what the Government has recommended, in a way is a second best-solution. The centre party has even gone so far as to say that they are for mandatory site of death testing. Then it is produced as if this voluntary scheme had to be introduced in order to gain experience. But the truth is that we have a major research project behind us, the Child Death Project, which presented its report a piece out in 2004, where the previous government could not conclude, and on which this government has spent four years before coming to the Stortinget with a recommendation. And then they come up with the solution that the Child Death Project does not recommend, because the project I mentioned concludes that you want a mandatory death centre study. On the basis of that, I and Right believe that it is not appropriate to turn this into a transmission proposal. We want to decide on the matter now. There are basically only two positions here that are possible: either you're for, or you're against. The Storting must be able to decide. I am also concerned about and have noticed the statement from the Law Department, which had a wording saying that you are ‘ready to assume’ that it might be unconstitutional. On the other hand, the Storting is the instance that is supposed to interpret and believe how the Constitution should actually be understood. I think that as it now appears, we in Norway are going to have one age limit — over and under three years — to really have legal certainty that is real enough for the youngest people in this country. In view of this, we do not see any reason to send the proposal to the House. Realities are clear, and it must be possible for the Storting to take a decision on what is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1193	It seems that some representatives of the Judicial Committee also believe that police routinely carry out investigations when a grown-up person dies suddenly and unexpectedly. This is, as the Minister of Justice also pointed out, not correct. All authority exercises by the police must be based on legal grounds, either criminal proceedings or police law. As Ballo said, in the event of death, it is a doctor who confirms the death. Only if the doctor thinks the death is suspicious will the police be alerted. With a death in his own home, relatives can actually refuse the police to come in. There has to be a secret in criminal law or police legislation, so transferring from a health team to a police team would still be unconstitutional. Paragraph 102 of the Basic Law states: ‘House Inquisitions shall not be located but in criminal cases.’ - but in criminal cases. One cannot claim that all creep deaths are criminals. As the representative of Ballo said correctly, we must not allow the good to become the best enemy. Now we have to get moving quickly with the proposed measures. It's actually a strengthening of children's legal certainty. There shall be an ex-post evaluation of the voluntary death-in-cidence study. We will thus receive answers to the number of parents who say no to voluntary investigation. I don't think there will be so many -- if there will be one. We'll get answers to how many of those who say no where the doctor actually reports to the police, and there's still a death-city investigation. Similarly, we will be answered in how many of these cases there are detected criminal acts, parents voluntarily agree to such investigation. We have today mandatory autopsy of children. That's not what we have of grown-ups. Here we take another step further, and give children even better legal certainty than they do. This I found positive, and I support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1211	I think the matter is becoming more and more unclear for my part. According to the last speaker, our police, as I understood it, have no authority at all – even if there is a suspicious death – to go in and demand a death warrant. It can't be right when you can actually go in and see if people are in possession of weapons, as I understood the previous speech said. If you read the revised national budget and what's under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the point is, as I have seen, that what you've examined by the Government is about a health team, as decided by the Government, going to a crime scene. If a child between the age of zero and three dies suddenly, the health team cannot enter and carry out a mandatory site of death study. That is what is in the revised national budget. There's nothing to say that if you had added it, for example. The police authority to handle this, i.e. not set up the team, could have done this in another way. That's what we're really asking: how can that be done? In my opinion, it is in any case suspicious if a healthy child between the ages of zero and three dies. Should it not be immediately reported to the police, and should it not then be investigated at the place of death? The Council of State says that it can be difficult and burdensome. Yes, but I think that in most cases it will be good also for those families where nothing has really happened wrong, that they will be forced to do so through an investigation. For me, it is suspicious if a small child between the ages of zero and three dies. Let's say that a child of four suddenly dies, a healthy child who has never been sick. It will be immediately reported to the police, and the police will be able to come and conduct an investigation. It is incredibly important to get hold of the tracks that may be there. If the Centre Party agrees that a mandatory site of death investigation is to be carried out, it is only to vote in favour of the proposal that lies here, either today or as revised on Friday. That's what we're talking about. We want to get this in place, and then we have to do this the way we see it, as other countries have done. I think you talk a lot legally from this pulpit. It shouldn't be that hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1222	I've been thinking of staying a little bit with the Constitutional Question. Well, we have received an assessment from the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice – the Minister of Justice has an obligation to present it to the Stortinget, and of course we have to deal with it – but it is also such that the Stortinget is initially free to have an idea of how to interpret the Constitution. The size has done it many times. In the end, it is the Supreme Court that has the decisive word. However, from our point of view, this is not least about the authority under which a mandatory site of death investigation may be carried out, and it must be quite clear that the prosecution authority may have the authority to carry out such an investigation. With the numbers we're sitting on today – provided they're correct – we know that 20 pst. by young people who die under three years of age, are subject to criminal penalties. Then there is a question of definition as to whether there are reasonable grounds for suspecting, or whether there is sufficient evidence to allow a person to enter and carry out a mandatory investigation. I believe we should have respect for the Constitution. If it turns out that the Constitution stands in the way of putting in place routines and a law that we all agree on, and that we think is good: well, then it's an argument for next time to look at the Constitution and how it should be understood. At least it can't be that way that it sits down and prevents us from putting into place a system that we think makes sense. So what happens in the hall here today. When the Central Party agrees to send this case back to the Government, our starting point is that we want a change towards a mandatory arrangement for all, even if we agree and also want to welcome the measures launched from the summer of. It gets a lot better from July 1st than it's been before. I'm a little bit questioning to the rhetoric of the opposition, which almost confirms that fact. We get a much better system than the one that's been, and that's why we give credit for it. What I don't understand is why the opposition seems to have earned a vote in favour of the proposal. If this is what you want done in the next round, it can't possibly be any strength in the matter that you put it at the head of this room today and make sure that you get a majority against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1231	And I'd like to start by saying that it's very positive with the strong commitment that has been in this room over the course of these four years to strengthen children's legal certainty. But I also agree with all those who say that it sounds as if the opposition believes that we are taking a step back, and not a step forward. I totally disagree with that. The position has worked on this matter for a long time. The major fractions of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – both in the Health Committee and in the Justice Committee – have had many rounds on this matter. We also have, among other things: has met with Professor Rognum, who – many of whom have been involved – has managed the Child Death Project. We are now following up one of his most important proposals to ensure the legal certainty of children, namely to set up your own team to develop your skills. One of the problems up to now has been that, fortunately, there have been so few deaths among children between zero and three years of age that there have been insufficient skills to detect the conditions in which there has been crime. By establishing these teams, which have been an important issue for Rognum, we are now ensuring the necessary competence. Out of the opposition, it has been made that children will have less legal certainty than adults do. That's not right. We strengthen the legal certainty of children, first by strengthening the routine arrangements through a mandatory offer of site-of-death study, and then whether the death is suspect or not, and second, by the fact that the team also brings with it investigators and obscurants, which will mean getting a study far beyond the health profession. Teams will have persons with the competence to detect criminal acts. I believe that the experience will show that the vast majority of parents who are offered this will accept this. As the representative of Ballo was in the room, the suspicion will be guarded and intensified in the cases that you might say no. The Criminal Procedures Act requires very little grounds for suspicion of criminal prosecution, and the reporting obligation to the police is considerably increased during this government. Today, it is a big problem not to report to the police about circumstances where child abuse is suspected. As represented by Hegø, there shall be a legal autopsy in all sudden and unexpected deaths of all children under the age of three. Experience has shown that these autopsies have revealed the most crime. I regret that not proposal No. 1 from the opposition may be converted into a transmission proposal. I also ask myself why not the opposition wants it. When there was such a serious contradiction, as it did in this case by the Ministry of Justice, the majority cannot agree to adopt this matter. I think it would have been the case if a total increase could have gone in order to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1246	I have to join the previous speaker and say that I think it is sad that the opposition sees itself best served by being depressed, instead of having a dialogue here on the important project to start. I want to comment on some of the things that are made by claims. First of all, from this pulpit it is claimed that adults have better legal certainty in sudden deaths than children, a claim I find very strange all the time we have a routine request for child autopsy when they suddenly die, which is not for adults. Nor is it the case that when an adult dies, police investigations are mandatory. On the contrary, it depends first on the municipality doctor’s warning that there is a suspicious death. Then the police will come. If the police are dead in their homes and relatives refuse to come in, the police have to assess whether there are police conditions that keep their suspicions, which make you go in. That premise is completely independent of the age of the deceased – whether it's 0 or 90, it's completely equal. In addition, we have a routine request for autopsy for children. There has also been a discussion about weapons, about weapons regulations and controls after them. In the case of weapons, the police have an administrative task to ensure that the weapons regulation is complied with. Everyone is applying for weapons, sign that they accept. This is because weapons are to be stored in certain ways, in certain approved cabinets, etc. I think it is a derailment to compare this with a mandatory investigation by this team, and the Constitutional Act § 102. Now it's like all the parties from this pulpit have said that here you want to seek the best possible order. Then it would have been nice if also all the parties agreed to it in practice. This means that you should respect the assessments made by the Department of Law and then seek to find the best possible solution in the further work to be done. It also means that you may accept that you are sending over the proposal so that the government can continue to work on it, and that you will not be able to vote down and allow politics to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1257	I think it might be okay to hang a bell on the cat and say what it is, that there has been considerable resistance within the health care system to this type of study – considerable resistance. I think everyone who has been involved in this matter since the morning is well aware of that. Then I realize that some people want the Storting to abdicate more or less in understanding the Constitution, and only comply with statements from the law department. It's quite interesting that this new attitude comes from the same parties as when we discussed the Basic Law and the right to change the shipping tax, said clearly that what the Storting meant in such a kind of case would be of crucial importance. But it was a slightly different kind of case. Here we are talking about giving children legal certainty the right to drive. Then it might not be so important to challenge the Basic Law on how far it goes in relation to the framework we have. I believe that the legal certainty of children has developed so dynamically in recent years, not least in international terms, and not least in the light of the fact that we have acceded to conventions that give rights to children, that it surprises me that, as expressed in this debate, this is so readily accepted by some teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1264	Compared to the Constitution, there is a great deal of counter-measures in favour of the proposal that came from the opposition. We still want to take the opposition seriously and send it over to the Government. That is why I propose a new proposal: ‘The Government requests the Grand Duchy to bring an action for the imposition of a mandatory site of death investigation in all cases of sudden and unexpected death in infants and young children’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1272	Ingrid Hegø has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to. Laila Bavøy has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1278	I would have liked to be on a transmission proposal if I knew that the government and the positioning parties might have wanted to make changes to what is available today. But so far I don't feel that someone has particularly expressed it. In fact, I have a few questions for the Minister of Justice. I hope he can answer. Is it not correct, in the context of the revised national budget, that the study assessing the grounds for carrying out a mandatory site of death study concerned only the health team? I can't read out what it says, that it was also about the police, if necessary. And so the second question, which is very concrete, is the Minister of Justice fully convinced that it needs a constitutional change to make a death warrant if a child dies without obvious cause?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1287	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1290	First of all, on a point of order: the representative, Heggø, referred to a proposal that I cannot see is distributed in the Chamber. It is necessary to clarify whether there is a proposal to be discussed in the Grand Duchy today. I just want to say in conclusion that it is clear that this is an incredibly difficult and twisted matter for the government parties. I interpret it so that the Constitution stands in their way under 3 years, but not for them over 3 years. When the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen here says that in the vast majority of cases voluntary investigation will work, it is precisely the problem that one unsolved infanticide is one unsolved killing too much. When I ask the Council of State if he might say when the matter will come back, the answer is very unclear – that you should make your experience. This is the experience we believe the Child Death Project has already brought us. It is therefore extremely unclear when we can get such a case back to Stortinget. We therefore want the proposal to be rejected today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1299	Olav Gunnar Ballo has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1302	I have now heard both Laila Davøy and Elisabeth Aspaker, and I understand why they are so insistent. They simply have not understood how this should work in practice. Because if you set up a team for them under 3 years of age, it is not that the police should not be able to request a death warrant if there are suspicious deaths involving children under 3 years of age. Of course, both the police can and should do so. But Laila Davøy explained the matter as if this team were preventing such an investigation from being requested. Of course it won't be like this. In comparison with a 4-year-old, a stronger situation for them under the age of 4, but if there is a suspicious death in a 4-year-old, of course, a death centre study is requested and followed up, just as it will be done for children under the age of 3, only that they will have an additional team available where an investigation is offered in any case. It's a strengthened situation, it's not a weakened situation for them under 3 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1309	I have to be allowed to repeat that I think everyone will do the best in this case. I react a little to the opposition's characteristics, that you have almost not understood the children's needs, or are not concerned about it. This is a difficult matter – clearly. For us, it has been crucial – we see it in the justice sector – to get the investigative apparatus going. It's the most important thing. Several have argued that most will accept this because it is so important, and it is not intervened – in the sense that most will accept it. Then we have to hope that it will help you to do this on a broad scale. But the representative of Aspaker reveals that she misunderstands this whole matter, when she says that the Constitution stands in their way for them under 3 years, but not for them over 3 years. That's not right. We don't have a mandatory site-of-death study for adults. If the police are to enter and investigate, a certain basis of suspicion is required. It has protected the Right all year round, and it protects the government parties. Police shall not be able to intervene without a certain basis. It's true whether you're small or big. What you're doing here is you're going to set up site-of-death studies, which will take place regardless of the grounds of suspicion. We do that for the little children, so that the small children actually get a legal advantage, in my opinion. And then the question, as I see it, is the opposition and everyone should ask on a justifiable basis: Should this be mandatory? So that's where we meet on a barrier, so at least the law department has sketched the Constitution. The representative Davøy asks me if I am almost convinced of that question. The point is that you're not quite sure about the Law Department either. But I think you should take seriously what the Law Department says. That's what we're doing, and that's why I think it's appropriate, when we start a project based on volunteering, to carry out that evaluation on an ongoing basis and look at what the representative Davøy was about, how to organize this team, if any other organisation can play a role against the constitutional law. I ask for respect for the need to be able to evaluate this on an ongoing basis. That is why I think it would have been wise to turn it into a transmission proposal, so that we had just made that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1320	I recorded with some wonder that the representative Heggø from the interlocutory took up a proposal that is not part of the Committee's position and that is not distributed in the Chamber either. Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, proposals to be put to the vote, known to have been submitted before 1 p.m. 9.00 a.m. meeting day. I assume that the President will clarify the status of this proposal. When I asked for the floor, it was otherwise because I have a little difficulty fully understanding the relatively generous discussion about the Constitution in this context. What the Storting is invited to do is not to take a stand for a law decision. What the Storting is invited to do is take a stand for a request to the Government to promote such a case for the Storing. The fact that there is an opinion from the Law Department, which points out that there are problems here, cannot possibly be used as an argument against the Stortinget addressing such a request to the Government. After all, it must be considered as solar clear that if, in the course of the process of responding to the request of the Storting, the Government does not, of course, invite the Stortinge to take such a decision without a constitutional amendment. So I think that this broad debate on the Constitution in this context is relatively uninteresting. In the past, it has been shown in many cases during this period – as the representative Syversen had in mind – that the government parties have had no difficulty in helping to adopt laws in Stortinget, which are in a rather strenuous relationship with the Constitution. Then the government cannot oppose being ordered from Stortinget to continue working on a matter like this. There is a fundamental and fundamental difference between a voluntary scheme and a mandatory scheme. In short, for all those who know the reality of these matters, it can be formulated as follows: Where there is a lack of reason to believe that there are problems associated with sudden, inexplicable deaths, it is naive to believe that some of their own free will will ask for it to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1331	I just want to give my support to the representative Inge Wohnning's assessment of this. I believe that what the opposition is asking for is quite different from the representative who now wanted to pay, where he said that the government could not oppose “to continue working on” this. That is why we are asking for this to be translated into a transmission proposal, because the wording of the proposal is precisely that 'The government is asking the Government to bring the Grand Duchy to justice for the introduction of mandatory site-of-death studies'. – The government is ordered to bring matters forward. But the ‘to continue working on’ this question is, of course, what we have said we want to do, for example. to look at the results of what is now underway and to assess – as in particular: The representative, Ms Davøy, was in the room – if there are other forms you can organize this under to get ready for the Constitution. I must say that I hope that the opposition parties will listen to the representative Inge Wohnning. If you turn this into a transmission proposal, the government will just accept that we should ‘go ahead’ with this, in order to use the pay language theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1340	I guess I'm told there's been some development during the debate. Not all things happen here in the hall, so in that way there's something positive in this. Let me establish a couple of things. If it is the case that the Government must have a request from Stortinget to continue working on this matter, it tells me something about this does not have such a great interest in the Government. I guess one thing also means that you come up with pro- and counter arguments and say that this is how we can do it, or that's how we can't do it, and then you present a conclusion to the Storting in an appropriate way. But if the government doesn't want to work on this on its own, but has to have a decree from the Storting, there's an indication of what interest the government has in the subject of mandatory site-of-death investigation. I would also like to say that at least – if you continue to work on these kinds of issues – you have to look at the relationship between child rights and the old-fashioned house inquisition paragraph, as it has been understood in the Constitution. This is not a question of any study — it is about the rights of small children, who have had a completely different development, both in Norwegian law and in international context, than in the past. It's a very dynamic area, and I don't think, to be honest, that government has given enough emphasis to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1349	The Council of State suggested that I did not fully understand what the proposal for a representative was about. In that case, it would be remarkable, as I am one of the proposers. I think I have relatively good insight into what the proposal is all about, and what's the point of that. But I don't fully understand the logic of the Council of State's argument about adopting the proposal. The parties to the Government agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Protocol. Why, then, is it so febrile to avoid a vote on the relationship between the proposal and the proposal to attach that protocol? Of course, any proposal for a representative annexed to the Protocol is perfectly free to take up and work on it if it so wishes on its own initiative. In this respect, there is no significant difference between a decision to annex a draft representative to the Protocol and a draft transmission to the Government. They want almost equivalent status. However, the aim of the proposal is to ask the Government specifically to promote a case for the Storting on the assumption that there is a clear majority on the Stortinget who want a mandatory death warrant in these cases. What I said was that if the Government in its efforts to comply with such a wish would not be able to introduce this as long as the Constitutional Paragraph has the wording it has today, it has one logical and simple consequence that then, if necessary, it must be proposed to change the wording of the Constitution. It's not more complicated. One cannot seriously believe that a formulation of a constitutional paragraph that has been made for a completely different time and for a completely different purpose in the eye would be an absolute barrier to introducing something that a clear majority in the Grand Duchy is of the opinion that we should introduce. In this case, the Constitution must be open to improvement and adjustment of the wording as in any other area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1358	Hans Olav Syversen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1362	This is really very straightforward from my point of view. We vote for the proposal from the Right, as it stands today. But then, in fact, the Government itself has put forward proposals in the revised national budget on how they want to implement this. If the government parties have changed their view – it seems that they have, and that is positive – they have the full opportunity to present their proposal before 1 p.m. 9.00 a.m. Friday. Then I can promise that the Christian People's Party will subsidiaryly support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1369	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox With regard to the proposal promoted by Ingrid Heggø, the President will come back to this during the voting. [[See page 3689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1388	Allow me to make a few brief comments as the rapporteur on the matter. Firstly, the Consumer Credit Directive is within the scope of the EEA Agreement and harmonised rules in this area are important for the proper functioning of the internal market. This Directive has been the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which had no comments on the proposal. Secondly, the present Directive represents a clear strengthening of consumer rights in relation to credit purchase agreements. It is unconditionally positive that the applicant for a loan is subsequently better assured of the content of a credit agreement. Thus, the borrower himself will have a better basis for assessing whether the proposed credit agreement has been adapted to his or her needs and financial situation. At the same time, the Directive makes it clear that the creditor is to be required to assess the creditworthiness of the consumer before the conclusion of the loan agreement. A unanimous Judicial Committee therefore recommends that Stortinget support the Consumer Credit Agreements Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1399	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1419	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1439	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1459	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1479	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3690]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1496	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1505	Buying a home is a big investment for everyone, most of us. That's one of the big costs of our lives. In Norway, we have taken the view that we want a policy in which as much as possible we should be able to own the dwelling in which we live. When buying a dwelling, therefore, it is that large faults and defects in the dwelling have very great consequences for people's economy, and also for people's lives. This is a market where there are a number of unprofessional players, and the Committee agrees that more action is needed to deal with the unprofessional players in this market. One of the things you want is to: a much more effective supervision, where consumer authorities, the different organisations in the construction industry and the different public authorities are seen much more fully. The government parties have their own comments that they will probably be preparing for. I will just briefly explain the proposals in the matter. One proposal is to extend the guarantee period from six to ten years. We see today that very many of the damage a building may have, very many of the mistakes that may have been made in construction, are not discovered during such a short period as six years, and that it is only in the period between six and ten years that you discover the consequences of any building error. An extension of the guarantee period would make it much more dangerous to make construction mistakes and not take them into account. In addition, the proposers want mandatory construction insurance and mandatory condition report to be investigated, which would also lead to greater legal certainty for the individual purchaser. It is today that if you buy a car – which is also a big investment, but a much smaller investment than buying a home, for the most of us, at least – you get a service booklet that tells the story of the car, how many times you have had problems, and what improvements have been made. But if you buy a dwelling, there is rarely any such service booklet. This cannot be made mandatory, but a voluntary service booklet believes that we could be a great deal of stress both for the seller and for the person who is going to buy a dwelling. We also believe that there is a need to look at different skills requirements for small enterprises in the sector. The left also has a proposal for a clean-up of national standards. Today, we have a conglomerate of complex, different standards in the construction industry. Making this systematized and creating some national standards would have made it much easier to deal with this both for the construction industry, for the tariff industry and also for the housing buyers, so that you know what is actually a good national standard, and when it's followed. I would like to address the proposals in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1522	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1525	The purchase of housing, as Trine Skei Grande said, is for most of us the largest investment we make. It is therefore necessary, as the proposers stress, to have sound legislation that respects consumer rights in a good way. The construction boom, the many defects identified and the strong growth in the housing market have shown that the legislation in many areas is not good enough. It is therefore reassuring to know that the Government has initiated a number of processes and measures to strengthen consumer rights in this area. Last autumn, the Ministry of Justice, in consultation, sent a proposal to strengthen the guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act and to regulate the arrangements for the resale of dwellings under entry. In addition, the Ministry of Local Affairs has now sent proposals for legislative changes in order to prevent problems with low-income housing. In spring, the Tax Court has also handed over its investigation, NOU 2009: 6 State report on the sale of a dwelling. This selection includes, for example: assessed how the use of the state report can make it safer to buy and sell housing and limit the risks to consumers and the number of disputes relating to the trading of dwellings. At all points promoted by the proposers, processes are now in progress to strengthen the consumer rights of Norwegian housing buyers. I am therefore a little surprised at the opposition's handling of the matter. Despite the fact that the measures referred to in the proposal for a representative are mainly being dealt with by the government apparatus, the opposition nevertheless considers it necessary to ask for their introduction or to investigate even more. It must at least be to open doors in most areas here. So let's do that. the opposition’s proposal to introduce a housing service booklet system: in fact, several legislative processes are now in progress with regard to the movement of housing, the outcome of which will be decisive for the necessity of such a service booklet. Maybe we'll get a code that will be even more restrictive than what will result from such a service booklet. The opposition also proposes to investigate construction insurance and mandatory condition report. Both of these conditions have already been investigated. The only proposal in which there is a certain variation in relation to the majority’s position is the proposal to impose a 10-year limitation period. Here is the Government and government parties of the opinion that this should wait until we have seen the effect of the already proposed change to extend the warranty period from two to five years. The Labour Party and the other government parties therefore believe that many processes are currently taking place that will improve consumer rights in the purchase of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1544	Purchases of own newly built dwellings are probably the largest and most expensive long-term single investment that people make. We've opened up our posts with all of them here, so there's clearly a broad consensus on that. When we see that construction errors represent 4 pst. of the value of newly built dwellings after takeover, there is a basis for ensuring that the law provides sufficient care for the consumer. I want to refer to Denmark and Sweden, both of which have a 10-year warranty period. Denmark has compulsory construction insurance and experience is that serious construction errors were reduced by more than 20 pst. We record that there is work going on in the departments with a guarantee scheme, and that there are ongoing processes in the cooling water of the Tax Committee's setting, but we would like to challenge the Council of State when we can wait to see the results of this work. We have been through a period of explosive expansion of new dwellings at a time of shortage of labour and use of unskilled workers. Many have paid too much for their new houses. There is reason to believe that this expansion could lead to an increase in faults and defects that can be attributed to poor craftsmanship and defects and defects in the construction of the house in the years to come. It is therefore urgent to ensure that consumers are able to claim compensation or remedy defects or deficiencies beyond the current five-year limit. I note that, in its response to the Committee, the Council of State argues that, at a time of financial crisis, the construction industry is particularly vulnerable and should not be subject to additional burdens in the form of increased obligations for the failing work carried out. This is a somewhat strange approach to an industry, which is just dependent on providing quality to ensure sustainable jobs. It is currently set of huge sums in crisis packages just to maintain the activity of this industry. Then there is an unfortunate signal from the Council of State not to demand high quality back by the Government, through its policy, stressing the construction industry's own responsibility for the quality and sustainability of the work being done. I therefore hope that the Council of State in its post will now further clarify for Stortinget when we can expect action to be taken to ensure that the industry bears more responsibility for defects and defects, and that the happy owner of a new house can sleep well at night even if one does not discover that the roof structure is flawed or the floor crumbs until after six years have passed. Finally, I find reason to clarify a possible misunderstanding with the Council of State. It is argued against an extended warranty period that consumers are not able to distinguish wear from construction defects. We believe that this is an underassessment and hardly represents any major challenge. Many suggest that the Council of State in its reply is not quite clear that the proposal is linked to new buildings, not second-hand sales between ordinary consumers. I miss the fact that in the course of this proposal, the government parties would take greater care of the consumer perspective and place my trust in the ongoing work to give better rights to new builders in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1569	I am pleased that an overall committee emphasises the importance of having legislation that guarantees the rights of consumers in the movement of dwellings. As others have been involved, this is, at least for some of us, a big and important investment, and many times more important than the purchase of a car, to say it like this! The Government has therefore taken several initiatives to strengthen consumer rights in this area. These include: by the representative of Gjul, it has been shown that the Ministry of Justice and Police has, at the hearing, had a proposal to strengthen the guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act and to regulate contracts for the resale of dwellings under entry. The Ministry of Justice and Police has also recently sent a hearing to the Court of Justice’s inquiry, NOU 2009:6 State report on the sale of housing. This study will discuss, inter alia: different means of increasing the use of the condition report in the placing on the market of dwellings for consumers. As a result, several processes are in progress in this area. With regard to this, when action can be taken, as someone has asked, I just have to say that when something is at the hearing, it is at the hearing! We are supposed to address it when the consultation period is over, in order to promote legislative proposals that will be relevant. I am also pleased with the proposal that is coming, because we need to focus more on this. There are many other measures that are also taken in addition to this with guarantees, complaints schemes and their likes, but I believe that this is an area where we need to have pressure on the design of the law, because it affects people's well-being to such an extent. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee wishes to facilitate an appropriate follow-up to these processes. Priority should be given to the work already under way. The minority proposals could complicate and delay work and could lead to a risk of taking action based on failing premises. It is only when we see the results of the ongoing work that we will have the basis to assess whether there is a real need to assess further action. The plural setting, in my opinion, takes a height for this. The majority of the Committee agrees to follow up the proposal to strengthen the guarantee rules in the Housing Entry Act and, in this context, emphasises that it is not appropriate to consider an extension of the guarantee period in the Housing Entry Act until the effects of these changes have been seen. It is a good example of some of the considerations that apply, that one actually wants to fill in with guarantees, which must work quickly, and that it affects the extent to which these guarantees become effective in relation to the length of the warranty period. Therefore, considering an extension of the warranty period in the housing registration law at this stage could delay the work of the guarantee rules in the housing registration law. With regard to the issue of mandatory status report, the majority of the respondents show that this has been thoroughly investigated in the Committee on Tariffs, as I pointed out before, and that it will be sent to the hearing. I agree with the majority that the assessment of whether a mandatory status report system should be introduced should be carried out in this context. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee emphasises that the practical functioning of the transfer of ownership insurance scheme is linked to the details of the rules of the disposal law. A change of ownership insurance, and it has faced many challenges for many consumers, will ensure the seller against the lack of responsibility it might have under these rules. The Committee on Tariffs and Trade is proposing amendments to the central parts of the rules of the law on disposal. The investigation also includes assessments of how these changes will affect the use of owner-occupied insurance and the level of risk of several such insurances. The majority of the Committee considers that it is not appropriate to carry out further investigations into the rules governing the transfer of ownership insurance scheme now that such a process is in progress, and I agree with that. With regard to the issue of a compulsory construction insurance scheme, the majority of the Committee points out that this has already been investigated in NOU 2005:12 and that it is not natural, in this context, to reconsider this issue. I'm joining this. In this NOU, the sample concluded that it would not recommend an insurance scheme as an alternative to the Housing Entry Act. The committee considered that this law provided for the need to regulate guarantee and insurance schemes for construction defects in order to review the guarantee provisions of the law in view of the extension of the amount and duration of the guarantee. I want to underline it. I believe that this is where we can obtain a great deal of consumer benefit, and that is why we have now committed ourselves to working on this in the future. This review has already been initiated by the Government in consultation with the proposal to strengthen the guarantee rules of the Housing Entry Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1590	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1607	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1616	The representatives of the Grand Duchy of Tørresdal, Eriksen, Grimstad and Sørfönn ask the Government to make the necessary changes to the justice system of the Grand Duchy for children who have been in children's homes, foster homes and special schools, so that children who have been subjected to abuse in Norwegian schools abroad may be included in the scheme. The Ministry has, in an assessment, concluded that it may be natural for the Norwegian schools abroad to carry out an examination of the situation before the Stortinget may decide on an extension of the scheme. In the Annual Report on the Judicial Remuneration, the Presidency says that the scheme needs a review. In connection with the Legal Affairs Committee's examination of the annual notice in Innst. S. No 107 for 2008-2009, the Judicial Committee shall deliver its opinion, including: att ‘you now need a fundamental review of the scheme. There is a reason to see whether there are other groups than those that have been given an extended and adapted scheme today, should also have the same». In a letter dated 3 February from the Presidency of the Justice and Police Department, the Presidency followed up and wrote that they consider it natural for the Government to take the initiative to abolish the scheme. The majority of the Committee believes that the situation of these children and their responsibilities should be clarified more closely before the Stortinget may conclude that this group should be included in the judicial compensation scheme. The committee had a written hearing on the matter and received some recordings from children who have gone to the boarding school in Japan. These recordings made an impression on the Committee and, in the light of this, the Committee considers it natural that this group be assessed in the context of the detailed review of the scheme. It is proposed that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1634	It took 50 years for Grete Salomonsen Hynnekleiv to tell his story of his upbringing at the Norwegian school in Japan. At NRK's Focus on March 31st, she tells us about sexual assaults that took place at school. It's a story that can't be avoided. The teacher — in this case also the principal — attacks several of the students at the school. He was never convicted. Unfortunately, Grete is not alone in experiencing abuse and care failure in Norwegian schools abroad. Over the years many Norwegian schools have been operating abroad. The County of Oslo and Akershus have been and are the supervisory authorities in the schools. There are schools owned by mission organisations, Norwegian companies or parents. Several thousand children have received their primary education in these schools. It's children of businessmen, scientists, embassy personnel and munitions. The Norwegian authorities have approved these schools, given them support over the state budget, and they have had oversight responsibilities. It may appear that this oversight responsibility has failed. The Christian People's Party believes that it is reasonable that victims of abuse and care failure at these schools should be able to come under the Justice Order of the Stortinge. I believe that in dealing with this matter in the committee we have taken an important step in the right direction, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank both the case rapporteur and the committee for taking this matter very seriously. All parties on the Stortinget now support a review of the already existing substitution scheme for orphans, and that the group that has attended Norwegian schools abroad should be considered as part of the scheme. I also believe that the Committee goes a long way in suggesting a state responsibility towards these children who have gone to publicly recognised schools abroad. The Christian People's Party believes that it is clear that the Norwegian authorities have a responsibility, and that children from Norwegian schools abroad who have been subjected to care failure or abuse must be subject to the Norwegian Parliament's judicial remedy system. Norwegian mission organisations have had several schools operating on several continents for more than 50 years. The fact that we establish the responsibility of the state does not relieve these organizations of responsibility. A few months ago, a survey was sent out to 2,500 former students aged 18 to 90. The results of this study shall be published in a report in September. This will provide valuable information on the growing-up conditions of children living in schools. It could also be part of additional information requested by the Committee in order to assess whether that group should be included in the judicial compensation scheme. Should the fact that these children went to primary school abroad deprive them of the right to a settlement? Their situation is not similar to that of the orphans, because these children had parents who, together with the organizations, contributed to a system where children were sent away to school. In many cases, children were sent to school far away in their six - year - old age — mostly day trips away. Once or twice a year, the children went home to visit their mother and father. In the meantime, school staff had the daily care of the children. In several cases, this system failed in total when there was room for abuse and care failure. Organisations must take moral responsibility for what happened. A replacement through the Great Britain justice system, recommended by the Christian People's Party, will never be able to cover the human costs of an infringement. It'll never make up for the betrayal. It'll just as fully give a long-lasting handshake to the ones that apply: we believe you. We're sorry on behalf of the community. By integrating this group, we can repair something from the past and contribute to a better future for those affected. This matter is about society and the state will take its share of the responsibility for abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1651	The extended and adapted justice system for former children with child protection who were at home or in foster homes came on the basis of a longer investigation showing that many of these children had suffered. As a result, they received a higher amount of compensation. They were compensated by just delivering a self-declaration that they had gone to school or lived at the institution. There was no evidence to be used. In retrospect, the debate on children, who have now grown up and who were at different kinds of institutions, has emerged. There have not only been questions about children who have attended mission schools, but there have been questions about children who have attended special schools, and children who have lived in a tuberculosis home. Similar stories have appeared in this context. No investigation has been initiated into this group, but I am informed by the Ministry of Justice that a major effort will be made to follow up what has been the Presidency's requests in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1658	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1679	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1699	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1716	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1733	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1750	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1767	The proposal requests the consent of the Stortningen to enter into an agreement between Norway’s Bank and the IMF to make new loans available to the General Arrangements for the International Monetary Fund. The loan access framework is 3 billion SDRs, i.e. special drawing rights, which are beyond NOK 30 billion. Based on the exchange rate on 22 May, this is equivalent, as I said, to less than 30 billion kroner. This is due to the fact that the lending capacity of the IMF has fallen over the last ten years in relation to the size of the world economy. This must be seen in the light of the fact that the need for IMF loans also fell for a long time. However, the global economic and financial crisis has led to a sharp increase in the demand for IMF loans, and there is much evidence that new countries will need financial assistance for months to come. On this basis, the IMF’s current capacity to provide loans may become too scarce. This will be very unfortunate in the deep global crisis we are now in. The IMF's lending capacity was one of the main points of its work towards the G20 Summit on 2 April this year, where the G20 countries gathered to recommend a tripling of the IMF's lending capacity, from USD 250 billion to USD 750 billion. In February this year Japan signed a bilateral agreement with the IMF on a loan access of USD 100 billion. In mid-March, the EU announced its willingness to provide EUR 75 billion in new loans. Several countries have later made promises of contributions. Following discussions with the Bank of Norway, on 27 March of this year, the Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Managing Director of the IMF offering to start a dialogue on a Norwegian contribution of approximately NOK 30 billion, given Storting’s consent. The Norwegian offer was published on 28 March in connection with the Prime Minister’s participation in the Chile Summit on the progressive response to the financial crisis. The Committee welcomes the conclusion of an agreement between Norway’s Bank and the IMF to make new loan funds available for the IMF’s general loan arrangements and supports the setting of a loan access framework of 3 billion SDRs. The majority of the Committee would also stress the importance of Norway's having clear proposals for changes in the governance of the IMF and the IMF's lending activities in line with St.meld. No 31 for 2008-2009, Credit Statement 2008. The majority believe that this will strengthen the IMF’s role as an effective tool to limit the impact of the financial crisis in many countries. The majority point out that the assessment of the establishment of new stabilisation instruments requires restrictions on the use of structural conditionality, such as privatisation and outsourcing of competition, in line with the report on the use of loan conditions by the IMF independent evaluation agency. The majority will stress the importance of the IMF providing macro-economic space for the low-income countries to pursue cyclical policies. The majority also points to the importance that new loans do not contribute to new debt crises for low-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1786	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1803	I would first of all like to thank the case rapporteur, Heikki Holmås, for the work he has done with annotation. Now I see him just getting into the big room, so I don't know if he wants to explain before me, but if not, I will, as I say, praise the President-in-Office for a positive attitude, for once, and for a good and neutral explanation of the proposal. But I am disappointed that, despite the fact that the rapporteur is positive and apparently in favour of the proposal, he will not support the proposal of the Progress Party. In fact, the case-rapporteur and the government parties could enter the history books by wholeheartedly supporting a proposal from the Progress Party here in the Grand Chamber, where they actually agree with the proposers. As I read the letter from the Minister of Finance, she is even in favour of the proposal for more detailed accounting information. And the whole committee is made up of the following comments: ‘The Committee is of course of the opinion that there should be transparency about the use of Community funds and that making detailed information easily accessible to people is important.’ I do not understand why it is so difficult to support the proposal of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The government is asking for an online user-friendly solution to present the use of taxpayers’ money by enlisting from the main areas of government accounts to the level of entry.’ It's no worse than that. Perhaps the majority will not support the proposal here today because you really don't want to focus on everything the tax money is spent on. Because if most people and the media could go down from key areas of government accounts to levels of entry, we might have needed a big explanation, such as: The United Kingdom then made the main cooperation country Malawi a few years ago using aid money to buy 37 Mercedes-limousines for approx. 200 million. kr. Perhaps the taxpayers, the media and several contributors had reacted to the fact that every year millions of taxes are spent on art projects that are difficult to say are a public task, such as: two museums a few years ago received 50 000 SEK in public support from the Norwegian Cultural Council to perform a concert with twelve tractors from the 1950s and 1960s, or 75 000 SEK in public project support to lower a sculpture on the sea floor at the Traina on the Helgeland coast. The sculpture was designed with materials that made it possible to see its shape through echo sound. It looks like a naked woman's body. – Probably interesting and funny, but absolutely nothing I want my tax money to be spent on. The expenditure database, the web portal, the so-called MAP, as rewritten in the proposal, developed by Missouri in the United States, is considered to be quite successful. Missouri, with its 6 million inhabitants, had 14 million hits on the website until November 2008 – quite successfully, you ask me. As shown in the information from Stortinget’s investigation section, it cost approximately $200,000 to set up this portal, almost $13 million. NOK Norway has approx. One million fewer inhabitants, but the public expenditure, i.e. the state budget, that we have here in Norway, is considerably larger, which would probably cost slightly more than 1.3 million. to establish such a portal here in Norway. On the other hand, the letter from the Minister of Finance states that in some areas it has come a long way in making detailed accounting information more accessible to the people, among others. with the StatRes project, which the Central Statistical Agency operates and further develops in cooperation with the State Financial Management Centres. So maybe it doesn't cost that much more than what the Americans used to do, maybe it's cheaper. It might have been tempting to reopen the debate on the publication of tax lists, which the case-rapporteur in some way put up in the comments, but I will leave that debate. There I see quite simply that we do not agree. But I hope that in this case we could agree on the traceability of the tax money. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to refer to the proposal by the Progress Party. It seems to fall, and then, of course, we will support the majority proposal that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1837	The representative Jørund Rytman then drew up the proposal he referred to. Then the spokesman for the saga, Heikki Holmås, shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1842	I am sorry that I was too late to enter the Chamber in connection with this matter. I just want to say that I think it is a very good proposal that Jørund Rytman has made on behalf of the Progress Party. Working for more publicity and publicity around the expenditure of the state budget is a very good thing. It is simply about ensuring democracy, openness and governance. We are already doing this to a large extent today, for example. through StatRes, where, if you go in and follow the links, you get pretty far down in the budget and the appropriations allocated. I think that's good. I think it's a good idea, and that it's a good suggestion to continue working for more publicity around the appropriations. I also think that the database drawn from the United States is a very exciting page – I had a lot of fun clicking into the money usage of different departments and departments in the administration over there. I also learned that they actually had salary allocations at the individual level. I'm glad that everyone agrees that going in and looking at the payroll payments for each one of them might be something contrary to the personal law we have, and that instead we have an excellent way of getting a discussion about the salary level through the publication of the tax lists, which, of course, also shows the revenue in a good way. What's a little strange is that despite the fact that the entire committee agrees that this is good, and despite the government saying that this is something we're working on, and is going to come back to, you say, well, you agree, but we don't really believe in you, so we're promoting a proposal. That suspicion goes beyond all the other parts of the Stortinget, which are in the notes that we're together about, but we'd better let that lie. The proposal from the Progress Party is being voted down as it is being promoted today, but the intentions to work further are being agreed. This is what the government is working on, so I see it so that this case gets a happy ending with the landfill treatment here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1855	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1872	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1879	This proposal, from the representatives of Leirstein, Rytman, Hagesetter and Tybring-Gjedde, is about getting an annual calculation of a so-called tax-free day. The proposers point out that in some countries and in some environments estimates are being tried to find the day when a taxpayer has made enough money to pay taxes and taxes, and that one after this day can start making money for itself. These environments have calculated that the so-called tax exemption day, for example: for the United States is in mid-April and for countries such as Norway and Sweden at the end of July. The proposers themselves say that they have not had the opportunity to assess the comparability of the different calculations, but at the same time claim that finding such a date would be a good indicator of the development of tax pressures in Norway. We are also aware that the Taxpayer Association in Norway has carried out such calculations for several years. When one sees the rationale for the proposal, and how the numbers are used, it's probably good to say that those who want this type of calculation are people who do it for ideological reasons. They believe that as little tax as possible and as early as possible is the target, while a late date and higher tax is bad — i.e. The United States is good, but Sweden and Norway are good. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the representatives of the Party of Advances and the Right, considers that attempts to calculate it as proposed are of little use and that there is neither a need nor a need to use resources to establish such an indicator. The majority believe that the indicator proposed is based on a reasoning that the taxpayer does not receive any reimbursement of taxes paid. The majority do not share such a reasoning and believe that the majority of tax revenue benefits taxpayers. Indeed, the Norwegian welfare system is based on the fact that the authorities provide their citizens with a number of important services, to which a country would like to compare, paying in full or in part out of its own pocket. For example: hospital stays and education were not financed from public budgets, it would contribute to the date of tax exemption earlier this year. We know that in some African countries there is no tax at all. There they can start celebrating on 1 January. I guess that's not a goal for the Progress Party or anyone else. I believe that such an indicator makes little or no sense, and also notes that this indicator is not used internationally. Of course, the majority consider it important to make comparisons with other countries, but point to the existence of a number of internationally recognised indicators that are suitable for providing comparative analyses and good information on different aspects of tax systems. These are indicators that are quality-secured to ensure the greatest possible international comparability. The representative Rytman stated in the previous case that he was concerned about the use of his tax money for cultural purposes in North Norway. I am concerned that the public bureaucracy in Norway should be informed that they would sit and investigate matters of this kind for my tax money. The majority share the conclusion of the Council of State that it is not necessary or advisable to use resources to establish such an indicator as the representatives of the Progress Party propose. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, therefore do not agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1894	As the rapporteur has explained, the background to this proposal is that an annual calculation of the date of tax exemption will be a good indicator of the development of tax pressures in Norway and the comparison of tax pressures in our competitors. That's the main reason. In addition, this is to make it easier for people to understand that until that date they are, to sharpen it, a ‘slave to the state’. After this day, you work to increase income for yourself and your own family, income that you have the right to have. Research environments in several countries calculate the so-called Tax Freedom Day. In the United Kingdom the day is June 2nd, in the United States it's May 3rd, while in Canada it's June 4th. In our neighbouring country Sweden was the tax exemption day last 29 July. Here in Norway, the Tax Payer Association has for several years tried to calculate the day of tax exemption in Norway. The last few years have been set at July 20, and will probably end on the same date this year. However, going back to 2002 was the tax-free day in Norway on 31 July, while in 2005 and 2006 it came earlier, namely 22 July. Although the calculation from the Tax Payer Association gives a clear indication of the change in tax pressure from 2002 to, for example, 2005 and 2006, the calculation is not quality assurance, as we in Norway have a rather complex tax system, and a complete calculation is resource-intensive. That is why we want the Ministry of Finance to be responsible for such an annual calculation and to do so in the context of the treatment of the State budget. If the revised national budget entails a change in the tax burden, it should result in a re-establishment of the tax exemption date. If the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the official calculation, we will avoid any doubt from the Minister of Finance or others who believe that the figures are not correct, because it is not a neutral or state agency that has carried out the calculation. A while ago, I sent written questions to the Council of State where I referred to a study from The Wall Street Journal and The Heritage Foundation, which produces annually the Index of Economic Freedom. This ranking places Norway far behind our neighbouring countries in terms of economic freedom. The vast majority of countries in northern Europe, such as the United States and Japan. Ireland, Denmark, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Estonia, Iceland, Luxembourg, Finland, Belgium, Austria, Germany and Sweden, are far better than Norway in this area. Norway is in the 28th place. The Wall Street Journal and The Heritage Foundation highlighted in particular the high level of taxation, which reduces Norway. In addition, Norway receives a low level of freedom in the labour market/flexible labour market, including: due to rigid and rigid labour regulations. A third factor that went down was too much public administration, public intervention and public ownership. Other factors in this survey, which was worth noting, are that in 2000, Denmark was at a low level than Norway on the ranking, but in the course of eight years Denmark passed Norway with a solid margin. In this case, the Minister of Finance rejected the ranking because the newspaper The Wall Street Journal is a so-called right-wing newspaper and The Heritage Foundation is a well-known think tank on the right-hand side of the United States. That's why we ask the Ministry of Finance, or rather the Central Statistical Bureau or the State Financial Management Centres, to calculate the annual tax exemption date, so that we get official figures, and don't start to doubt who has done this. In the previous case, we discussed a proposal for a representative on the traceability of tax money. There was a consensus that it would be open to anyone in Norway to see what the tax money is going to do, something the finance minister and everyone in the finance committee are in favour of. In this case, we believe in the Progress Party that most people also have the right to know about the tax burden we have in Norway. An annual calculation of the tax-free day will be a good way to illustrate this to the people. But I understand that the majority in this room is not concerned about. I would nevertheless like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party. Subsidy, we support the proposal from the Right that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1915	The representative Jørund Rytman has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The President records that there are several people who could think of a line, but there is no reason for a line change in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1920	On the right-hand side, we do not need to keep any long post on this matter. I want to take up the proposal from the Right and make a brief comment on it. It is important to clarify that the level of taxation in Norway is too high in many countries around us, in particular the wealth tax, which affects private ownership and Norwegian jobs, and through it also helps to weaken the Norwegian welfare community. Taxes on lower and medium incomes need to be reduced, therefore such an indication of the date of tax exemption could give important attention to the level of taxation in Norway. However, there are no international standards to which a tax exemption date can accurately be calculated, and the countries that have it and to which the representative Rhytman refers often take as a basis a range of different stand-alone research environments, which also rely on different criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1927	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1930	I would like to admit that it had been more tempting with a line. In a way, I got a deeper understanding of the proposal of the Progress Party when the representative Rytman said that they were “slaves for the state” insofar as taxes were paid. That is, of course, a principle that I did not quite read out from the proposal for a representative, but which in a way justifies the proposal a little bit more. One that pays between 30 and 40 pst. tax, as signed, is probably approx. One-third slave to the state. It could have been good to know if this is the principle attitude of the Progress Party, that to the extent that you pay into the community, it's a kind of slave trade, and that once you pay your days with taxes, there are some links falling, and you're suddenly free. Because that gives a different perspective on the welfare community than what I think most other parties have in this room. The fact that we contribute together to something that the whole community has enjoyed, and that not least raises those who don't have the same resources as others, I think is a quality sign of Norwegian society. That's what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1939	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1956	We could probably hold a long philosophical debate on this, whether we are slaves of the state, or whether we are slaves of the life we live. In any case, we are now considering a proposal by representatives Dagfinn Høybråten and Hans Olav Syversen to develop a gross national quality of life target as a complement to gross national product. It's probably a suggestion that many in the first place might meet with a shoulder move. Commentator Elin Ørjasetter wrote the following on the website E24 last Friday: ‘Is the proposal the stupidest or opposite to the most important of the year? At least it opens up more discussion than most other representatives in the Stortinget.’ Whether the proposal is the most important of the year, I shall not conclude with it, but at least I am pleased that the Committee has had a good and broad discussion of the proposal and the issue it raises. We had, in my opinion, a very good consultation in the committee, where Per Espen Stoknes from BI and Asle Rolland from the Statistical Central Bureau helped to clarify the matter from several different points of view. As it emerged from the consultation and to which the proposers also refer, on several levels work is underway on finding indicators to measure quality of life as a complement to gross domestic product. There are in particular three different international projects to measure progress ‘beyond GDP’ or gross domestic product, which are worth looking at: the global project ‘Measuring the progress of societies’, carried out under the auspices of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Eurostat’s work on developing a new index for the EU, and the Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress, appointed by France’s President, Sarkozy, with Joseph Stiglitz as leader. The latter, the Stiglitz Commission, recently produced a preliminary report that points out that it would be natural to measure the national product of the future in three equivalent sizes: classical GDP, environment and sustainability and quality of life. It's an approach that I share, and as an overall committee also thinks is interesting to transfer to Norway. As the Committee’s consultation has shown, this is also fully feasible today, and it can provide meaningful policy-design data because it could meet a need for knowledge of values that are not available in traditional economic data. Especially in view of the fact that human capital represents 82 pst. of our future national wealth, it is important that we have a broader basis that just strengthens the knowledge and understanding of human capital. I also believe that measuring national quality of life can be an important complement to distorting the content of growth in a more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly way, thus making a sensible contribution to solving one of the greatest challenges of our time. Back to Elin Earsets. She concludes her comment as follows: «The belief in happiness measurements can either be seen as incredibly naive. Or incredibly authoritarian. If the Ministry of Finance bureaucrats are going to decide what makes us happy, we're really going to run. But the proposal can also be seen as one of the few that really addresses the most important issues of policy. Just by being authoritarian enough to say that something makes us happier than other things, politicians conduct politics. And that's what we've chosen them for." I don't want to be naive or authoritarian, but just conduct politics. When a joint committee welcomes the proposal and proposes to attach that protocol, this does not mean that the proposal is put in the drawer, but that we are open and searching for sensible ways to supplement the gross domestic product in order to improve, if possible, the quality of life of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e1986	I agree with the rapporteur that we have had a good deal to do with the matter, and that it is an important matter we are now dealing with. We know that it has already been researched that rich people are more happy than poor people, as the proposers point out. But there's also something we know that the heads that come at the top of one's own house and home are starting to be smaller. As the proposers, the Government and the Red-Green agree that ‘policies can do more for citizens if the main objective is quality of life than if economic growth alone’ is meant to mean something. In the 2009 Perspective Communication, we wrote the following about our main objectives: ‘The government will pursue a policy based on justice and community. Our task is to strengthen, renew and further develop the Norwegian welfare society.’ Everyone should have the same opportunity. It is not that everyone should be equal, but that all people throughout the country should have the opportunity to develop their abilities and live good and meaningful lives. Then work for all, sustainable development, a fairer distribution and strengthening of welfare systems must be in place. But there are important conditions that are not captured in the various measurements that exist. It's voluntary, it's unpaid work, it's nature, and it's environment – and more than that. GDP does not capture this well enough, which in turn can lead us to leave to future generations less of this kind of capital. There is a lot of research and different indicators to measure, so we may not need to reinvent the powder. It is also not what the Committee asks for, but we must, as the majority of the Committee says, ‘have a broad discussion of the measurement of quality of life, including the further development of the work on sustainable development indicators’. Measuring happiness is not easy. There will probably be things that will bring happiness to the representatives of Højbråten and Syversen, but that do not necessarily give me the same sense of happiness – and vice versa. But we all know that if it's the representative Høybråten, the representative Syversen or me, we're people. We need security, we need proximity, we need warmth. We need to feel that we belong and are in common with family and friends. That's where I think we're pretty much all alike. As politicians, we can make decisions and grant money that gives people that kind of capital, or rather, gives people good lives, so that they get happier. When we spend money on e.g. setting up volunteer centres is not easy to measure. Then at least user studies say that it reduces loneliness, it creates the sense of community, it gives proximity and it gives networks. When we protect nature from expansion, we know that it gives people the opportunity to live outdoors and to use nature. Many feel that it gives them good lives. When we build kindergartens, we know that it gives parents security for the most beautiful things they have, namely their children, and that they feel satisfaction by taking care of the children. But very often these are experiences and feelings that are expressed verbally, that cannot be measured in dollars and ears or production results. That's why I think this debate is important, because sometimes we're going to ask ourselves – perhaps more today than ever before: what is the good life? Everyone is in a hurry from the farm, and the world is going fast – not just our lives here on the mountain, but people's lives in the world: what is the good life, and who has good lives? I believe that when we focus on this, we become more attentive and action-oriented with a view to lifting up all those in the world who obviously do not live good lives – and often because of the way we live. It's not a sustainable direction, either for the environment or for people. I saw a drawing in the VG in 1997, I think it was, by a very thick rivet lying on a sofa with a nisselua on its head. So the niece says to the world, "I'm so tired that I'm so annoyed." That drawing I think says everything. It is a good picture of how we have become, both to what is close to us, and – I am not in doubt – to what is removed from us. We can't get there that we don't care. Then we will all live poor and contentless lives. So I look forward with pleasure to the further debate in public space and in the work that the Government is going to do to make us manage to lift this up. Happiness in life is often the little things. A lot of the little things are usually going to be something big. Finally, I would like to quote Arnulf Oberland’s ‘En Hustavle’: ‘There’s a happiness in life which cannot be turned to conductors: The fact that you're enjoying another one, It's the only joy. It's a grief in the world. which cannot facilitate tears: The fact that it was too late, when you understood this. No one can do the rest of the time. Stand by a grave and complain The day has many hours. The year has many days." Also for Elin Oerjasets, I hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2044	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers, who are raising a very important debate, and also to the rapporteur, who was not tempted to be a bit flustered by such a matter, but was very serious about this. I think this is a very important matter. Money can't measure happiness, I think we all agree on that, even in the richest country in the world, there are many unhappy people. I guess that shows that that's true. I give talks sometimes, and then I often use an example that goes a little bit into this. In 1970, I started first class at Jong School in Bærum. Young school was a whole new school then. At the time, we had found no oil or gas, and we were a relatively poor country in Europe. We were not poor, but we were relatively poor. At the time, we had a secret hall, we had a school kitchen, we had a janitor, we had someone who liked the track for us, we had teachers who set up in the 17th May train – we had all that as a first-class student wants. Today we see that this is not the case. We have become richer and richer – and we can afford less and less. It's a fact that I've been trying to analyze a little bit. Everyone says we're getting richer private, but we have public poverty. But at the same time we're spending more and more public money, so the answer is not just that we're going to spend more public money. Money doesn't necessarily solve all the challenges we have as a society. I do not have all the solutions, the Progress Party does not have all the solutions, but there is no one else in this Chamber who has all the solutions. Therefore, one should be a little humble about exactly what this proposal addresses. The Progress Party has its own additional comment on the matter. We believe that there are some quality of life barometers that you can use – not just talk about climate and general things, which you often have a tendency to do, but about more concrete things like the development of crime, the quality of care for the elderly, whether people feel they are getting the health care they need, whether the dissemination of knowledge at school is at the level you should have, etc. Other things you should look at in such a case are the important, fundamental values on which the human rights of the United Nations are built, and which are still a challenge in terms of right of expression, individual freedom, pluralism, secular rules of law, equality and equivalency. All the things that are absolutely crucial to our society are things that cannot be measured in money. You won't be happy if you build walls around you, no matter how much money you have. Happiness also affects family relationships. It's not easy to measure it, but it's obvious there's a lot of dissatisfaction out there. It is not quite right that Sund said that it is typical Norwegian to lie on the sofa and be sat, as the caricature showed. You may be reasonably saturated, but you don't necessarily have to be so happy for that reason. That is the whole point of this proposal. The Nordics may feel that they have lived a relatively heavy life, even though they have relatively good advice. It is about solitude and everything that we cannot necessarily adopt politically in this Chamber, but that is important to take into account in the debate. That is why I think this is a good proposal, where you try to find barometers that are as neutral and objective as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2057	I will begin by commending the Christian People's Party for the initiative that has been taken. It is commendable that the Christian People's Party puts such a thing on the agenda. There is absolutely one thing that should have received much more attention. I think we from the Storting and the Financial Committee have done what we can to draw attention to this matter. I also register that the Norwegian press today has referred to the representatives Syversen and Høybrätten in a small NTB message in today's online newspapers, and that is positive, although we should have wanted this matter to have been referred to much wider in the press as well. I am in the illustrious corner and will therefore also fully support the case rapporteur, whom I think had a very good post, and who has also written good comments to which the entire committee has joined. It is right, as the representatives Højbräten and Syversen write in the proposal, that there is no necessarily any contradiction between having a goal of maximising value creation to fund well-being and create jobs and focusing on the quality of life and human need for security and happiness. I expect that it is a goal for all of us who sit here in the hall, who choose to engage in politics, to contribute to a more well-functioning society. That is why this is absolutely a debate to which we, as elected representatives of the national Parliaments of the country, must contribute. There was also some of what the researchers said during the hearing in the committee. One thing is that this is an international and important debate, but this is also a debate that needs to be matured and developed. Here we have to know our visit time, which the representatives of all parties have to contribute to. This is an important start and mark on an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2071	There will be an interesting discussion in the future when selecting the indicators for the measurement of quality of life. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight some points that we need to take with us in the further work. It is important to remember that the indicators to be selected and the weighting to be given to each indicator are in no way obvious. It is not immediately easy to find a general understanding of what is increasing, and what lowers the quality of life in a society. It also shows the comments in the vote on this proposal. When there is so much disagreement about what quality of life really means, it is of great importance that such an objective be the subject of a wide and public debate. In order for a quality of life indicator to have some value at all, it must have democratic legitimacy and popular anchoring. Then we also have to assume that the perception of what quality of life is changes over time. It's an interesting and good idea the representatives Høybråten and the Syversen address in their proposal. However, it is important to remember that BNL will only be a supplement to GDP. Too many people are still living in poverty, and income disparities are still too large. Differences in income in Norway, measured by the so-called Gini index, fell markedly after this government took over in 2005. The government has also put in place targeted measures to reduce poverty, and in important areas we have succeeded, but that is a long way to go. For SV, the main objective is to have fair distribution, smaller differences and a solid community of good safety networks in Norway. The quality of life and freedom of people continue to depend heavily on the level of income, and in this way gross domestic product, together with measures of size such as poverty, income inequality and unemployment, remains the most important indicators we have for measuring progress. With the reservations and concerns I have raised here, I nevertheless join in the development of quality of life objectives, in line with the comments of the majority of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2086	First, thank you to the case rapporteur for the work on the matter, which has given a unanimous opinion – and I would like to say a very good attitude. I would also like to thank all the parties that have contributed to getting such a unified attitude, which I think is actually a never-ending milestone in the process of developing what should be the goal of which our society should go. It was such that when GDP was launched, there was a great debate about it as well. Was that the right way to measure the development of a country? I think most people will agree that it has its value, absolutely, not least what Lund Bergo had in relation to basic goods, and how to make sure that as many as possible get it. But as it was said during the hearing – and I think it’s quite interesting – from the researchers, GDP today is more irrelevant in their opinion than ever to measure the evolution of society, what makes a society move forward, and people experience a better life in the society they live in. It was a very clear conclusion from both researchers, and it also fits well with the work of the Stiglitz Commission. We have received an interim report – and it is therefore the President of France who has ordered this – that points to the same and that, in future, there will be three equivalent objectives of social development: traditional GDP, environment and sustainability as part No. 2 and quality of life as part No 3rd@item: inlistbox I am very pleased that the whole committee thinks this approach is right, and you give the government the task of continuing to work on this until next year's budget. In my view, it is quite clear that if the focus is on GDP alone, it also gives impetus to supporting only GDP growth. Then you focus on it in your work, and it's, as we agree, and as the researchers agree, a very small part of the full picture in terms of quality of life, in a society in the future. I think that both Eirin Kristin Sund, the rapporteur and others have contributed well in terms of what gives a good life. It is not that it can be adopted, but in our policy design we can help to facilitate it. We can give a framework that makes society go in the right direction. That is what Elin Ørjasette pointed to in his commentary article. We are very pleased with the setting and look forward to the work the Government will do at this point. I don't know if it's with joy, but at least we're looking forward to the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2101	This is a very important matter, which has been discussed by many. My soul is more optimistic now than a year ago. One has to see it positive in any situation. The financial crisis has led to crises in many areas, not only in terms of economic conditions, but also in terms of ideologies, and how to organise society. Any crisis provides a basis for change. However, I am conditionally optimistic, because we see how continued consumption growth in Norway and in other countries seems to be a prerequisite for avoiding unemployment and a prerequisite for people to have income from their work. So how far we've really come, I'm going to put big question marks on it. I was as lucky as a student to experience 1974, with the then oil crisis and the associated food crisis. It's been 35 years. At that time, there was a heated discussion at our universities and colleges about not only market economy versus plan economy, but many of us were also engaged in market economy versus resource economy. There were many who were concerned about the assumptions of a green everyday life, a green wave, and it was even those who arranged for a car-free day. They were the strong trailers of renewable energy instead of the consumption of storage energy. It was those who were strong supporters of decentralization in society instead of centralization. They were the ones who were very calm about the noise, and it was they who were strongly weighing safe food versus food with additives, and associated allergies. Experience has shown that from 1974 to today – 35 years – we haven’t gotten that far in these questions. I'll say we've gone in the wrong direction. But, as I said, crisis provides a basis for reflection, and rethinking comes as a result of the greatest crises. The Centre Party is committed to international regulation and economic organisation and welcomes the treatment of the Stiglitz Commission at the UN. It is said that gross domestic product needs to be complemented by indicators on the environment, sustainability and quality of life. What is now central in Norway is the Norwegian follow-up to the Stiglitz Commission. I would say that if this were to lead to changes in the Norwegian social organisation and in the Norwegian everyday life, there would be political disagreement if there were proposals that were serious. It will probably show new policy lines. Therefore, a unanimous committee can be both a strength and a weakness. It has to much more thorough things to do, seasily. The financial crisis commission that we understand the Government will soon set down, some of us hope that will lead to different political schools, in an economic sense, that those facing an alternative view will not be exposed to the traditional techniques of rule, by being teased or ridiculed, that the hegemonics of the iron triangle Statistical Central Bureau, the Bank of Norway and the Ministry of Finance may be somewhat muffled, and that it will be possible to get the sound of the ear for other points of view, which are really contained in the proposal. There is little agreement on the concept of ‘quality of life’. It will probably always be, because it depends on the individual's situation and also on what dreams you have. On the part of the Centre Party, we place the emphasis on a new place for the concept of ‘quality of life’, which must be based on a level playing field between peoples. In a global context, it will have to mean that there are groups in Norway that have to expect a real income drop in the years to come, in order to get this on a new track. What we are discussing here has broad popular support. But, as I said, everything is relative, in the sense that one must have a temperament. There has to be the balance between different groups that make room for this. Finally, I just want to say that this is a major challenge for academia in Norway, that one dares to address these questions in the way that one did in the 1970s, dares to put this under debate — and during critical debate — and present it with the necessary strength. It'll be a demanding process for us, but it's essential that we do it. The centre party is very pleased that the proposal has been put forward, and that the discussion is in progress. The question now is whether we dare to take it seriously, with the necessary consequences that will result.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2116	It's a well-known truth that we're getting more of what we're measuring, and if we're measuring first and foremost the economic sizes, that's what the debates and the conflict lines will focus on. We know that in terms of objectives of good social development, there are alternatives and supplements to gross domestic product and other economic-oriented objectives in use internationally, which are now partly also used by nations. There is an international debate on these issues, and there is an ongoing international development, to which the Committee refers quite rightly. I am very pleased that the Norwegian big business is taking hold of this, and that there is a broad consensus that this international trend should also be part of and relate to us. I believe that this will strengthen our democracy, because it will bring our political agenda and our agenda as a national assembly more into line with what is the people's agenda. That's the whole goal. The goal is not to adopt the good life. The representative Sund made an excellent contribution, for which I thank. She pointed out, quite correctly, that we want individual perceptions of what is the good life. But there are some basic common features, because people are people, and because we have some basic needs like people in a community, that society cannot adopt, but that society can provide. That's where it's interesting to measure more than GDP. It's where it's interesting to ask people what they think is most important in terms of quality of life, in terms of good life. I think this debate is a good illustration of what such an indicator can contribute to, namely, slightly different debates, which set a slightly different agenda, but at the same time focus on what is important in the lives of individuals and in society. That's where I think we have some way to go. The position put forward by the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee is a very good basis for moving forward. I thank you for the agreement given to the proposal through the comments in the vote. I'm looking forward to the Council of States. She has the opportunity to be the first finance minister to present a national budget with a slightly different focus, for the 2010 national budget, it is now clear that it will be Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen who is presenting it. I have great expectations that we can get a little further, as the Committee asks, in the feedback that the Government will give under the suspension, in the 2010 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2133	I don't have much to add to the debate itself. I agree with the representative Højbrätten that this was a small breathing room in a large number of other things in the main hall today, because there is a much more searching tone over the mission that lies as a follow-up to this Document No. The 8th proposal by the representatives of the Christian People's Party. It's not that strange, because there's no perfect measuring instrument that we can now just ease in and say that now we want to assess national happiness. But there's no reason to use it as an excuse not to search for such instruments. We have done an important new job in terms of the indicators we have for sustainable development. It has some of the same perspective, because it's limited what you can measure through a gross domestic product. You can, for example: do not measure what you do with natural values and which you are not able to pass on in the same way to the next generation. You don't appreciate it as a loss on the way to development. We are going to follow very closely what is now going on in the international debate on this. We're taking the assignment that an overall finance committee wants us to work on. So I'll be a little careful to promise that we'll come up with a perfect model for measuring happiness in the national budget for 2010, but we have to help pull the question a little bit further. I agree with those who say that what you're measuring is to a large extent what you're following. It does not just apply in this area. This applies to national tests at school, as to what we think is good care for the elderly, etc. It's going to be very fast, so what you're measuring is what you're driving by. It is therefore important to have other types of quality objectives for policy-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2147	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2167	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2187	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2208	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3693]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2228	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2248	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2268	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2288	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2308	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2328	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3694]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2348	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2368	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3695]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2376	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2398	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing proposals No. 4-6, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 8-11, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 7 is included on pages 10 and 11 of the vote, while the other proposals are distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2431	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Eight, nine and eleven from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2462	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose an increase in the rate of free legal aid which ensures the satisfactory quality of legal assistance services.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2478	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2507	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2554	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included on page 2 of the configuration, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the hall. As regards proposal No: 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, there can be no voting in the Grand Duchy, as it is a proposal to amend the law and belong in the Odelstinget. The proposal thus lapses. Inge Wohnung has asked for the floor for the order of voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2570	It is quite unusual that the Stortinget is invited to decide on proposals that have been promoted from the pulpit at the end of the proceedings. When it can't be formally, probably, rejected, it's because it's actually a transmission proposal, as you'll see from the wording. But it creates an even more unusual situation, because the Storting has a very solid tradition that transmission proposals are unanimous, and that they come from the fact that those who have made a proposal agree to change them to a transmission proposal. This was expressly rejected in this debate, and as far as I can see from the situation we then have, the three governmental parties wish on their own to promote the same proposal as a transmission proposal. I do not recall in the hurry that there is a precedent for anything like this, and under no circumstances do I find it to be commendable if you are a member of a clean-up procedure. I would say that the most natural way is to vote alternately between proposal no. 1 and the majority voting by the Committee, which shall be designed to annex that Protocol. It would have been the usual way of feeding. What the government parties may wish to do with this transmission proposal is irrelevant to the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2577	The President can only note that the proposal has been put forward in the debate. As Mr Wohnning quite rightly said, it has a form of a transmission proposal, but it is a proposal that has been put forward. What is an alternative vote is to vote on proposal No. I would like to point out to the House that the Commission is not in a position to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2580	It may be difficult to use the expression ‘voterer over’ for the point of a transmission proposal is precisely that by definition it is not contested. That's what this proposal creates is the inexhaustible situation. But voting on the transmission proposal can under no circumstances be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2585	That is the procedure in which we consider in connection with proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Can the Stortinget accept that we are doing it the way the President proposed, namely that we put proposal No. 1 up against the setting, and then we take a position on the way in which proposal No. Three? I can see that there's a consensus about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2606	Proposal No. 3, from Ingrid Heggø on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, is a transmission proposal and reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government bring proceedings before the Storting against the imposition of a mandatory site of death investigation in all cases of sudden and unexpected death in infants and young children.’ The President will propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2634	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the issue of biometric passports to remain a task for the local police and to prevent the centralisation of this service.’ The left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2655	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 10 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a conversion of the delivery procedures in the case of passport issues in order to ensure that passports are either delivered at the personal presence of the police, or that passports are sent to the holder by order.’ The left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2675	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit without delay an assessment of the extent to which the EU Professional Qualifications Directive affects national legislation, as well as an assessment of the extent to which Norway’s EEA obligations indicate an obligation to accept services from non-resident weight companies. The Government is asked to submit any legislative amendments as soon as possible in order to meet our international obligations.’.» The left supports the proposal. The voting boards showed that 62 votes were cast against the proposal of the Party of Advancement and the Right and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.12.33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2688	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2693	The correct numbers are then 61 votes against the proposal and 40 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2701	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan Arild Ellingsen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government, at the latest in the context of the submission of the State budget, to establish the posts provided for by the 2001 Stortingen in the course of the adoption of the previous law on watchkeeping.’ The left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2720	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2746	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether it is possible to impose competence requirements and a minimum requirement for small construction enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2760	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to bring forward a case to strengthen the consumer rights of Norwegian housing buyers, inter alia, by introducing a 10-year period of warranty and a voluntary service booklet for housing. Obligatory construction insurance and compulsory condition report have been investigated.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2806	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 26 May 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for Dad to work up the entitlement to the parental quota on an independent basis.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2825	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grand Duchy of Olemic Thommes on behalf of the Right and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 26 May 2009: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch an overall review of the various agents and supervision in order to transform some of the agents into supervisory bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2903	During the debate, Jørund Rytman put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an online user-friendly solution to present the use of taxpayers’ money by enlisting from the main areas of government accounts to the level of entry.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2928	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Rytman, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 2, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2951	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:105 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2968	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2973	The numbers are then corrected to 69 votes in favour and 33 votes in favour. The Committee's position is thus favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e2996	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 11 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals with the necessary legislative changes to enable a separate board of State pension fund – Foreign.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3016	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that specially organised schools for disabled persons can apply to the Ministry for rent compensation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3035	There is a vote on the proposal of Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up as soon as possible an overview of the subsidies received from the government, both the State, the counties and the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3054	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the school performance in the national tests is a compulsory part of the annual report on the state of primary and secondary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3073	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to ensure that all private schools providing secondary education in combination with top-level education are treated in a non-discriminatory financial way in relation to public schools with similar offers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3092	The vote will take place on the proposal from the representative of the European Parliament, Ms Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government is asked to present a case in which the challenges of inactivity and lack of physical activity are monitored and analysed. This review shall be the starting point for the competence requirements to be set for the management of physical and physical activity in the school.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3111	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Dagrun Eriksen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for national standards on school teacher’s density.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3130	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case of full economic equality between private and public kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3149	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to facilitate the predictable and stable further operation of the Student Children’s Gardens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3168	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to defer the transfer of financial responsibility for the kindergarten sector to the municipalities until the objective of full needs coverage has been achieved and full economic non-discrimination for private and public kindergartens has been established.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3187	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2009: ‘The size asks the Government to propose guidelines that require all municipalities to have income graded parents’ payments for kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-15.ana.ud426e3211	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
