ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e30	The representatives Torbjørn Andersen and May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the meeting of the alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge from the time of 3 February and until further notice, under the permission of the representative of Øystein Djupedal. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application is examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the South Trøndelag County, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik, are invited to meet during the leave period. Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik is present and will take the seat. Three permit applications are available: From the Workers' Group on sick leave of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen from 3 February onwards and until further notice From the Left-wing Group on sick leave of the representative Gunvald Ludvigsen from 3 February onwards and until further notice From the Workers' Group on care leave of the representative Terje Aasland from 3 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Sogn- und Fjordane counties: Bjørg MikalsenFor Telemark County: Lise WiikFor Troms County: Knut Werner HansenLise Wiik and Knut Werner Hansen are elected to the Lagting for the time they meet for the representatives of Terje Aasland and Tove Karoline Knutsen respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e104	Bjørg Mikalsen, Lise Wiik and Knut Werner Hansen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e110	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and the rest of the week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e120	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e123	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Olemic Thommesen and myself, I will put forward a proposal for a review of regulation in the field with a view to strengthening private rights. On behalf of representatives Martin Engeset, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to strengthen the rights of landowners to compensation and in the proceedings for protection and expropriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e130	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e134	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to the Government not to introduce the planned regulation of police working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e139	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e153	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e164	In this case, it is a majority position and a minority proposal. I assume that the majority position, from the Workers' Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Left, will be justified by themselves. I shall explain the views of the Progress Party and the minority on this matter. The right to individual level in the Social Services Act adopted on 1 January 2009 does not capture the concerns of the proposers. Current legislation has a specific content to ensure cooperation, interaction and coordination of different services. In other words, it's not a plan for individual follow-up. Today's legislation also does not require when an individual plan is to be made available. The Party considers that an interaction where individual follow-up is rapid and a requirement for participation will lead to more people clarifying their situation. In a letter from Minister of Labour and Inclusion Dag Terje Andersen to the Labour and Social Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘Telemark Research fines carried out in 2005-2006 a survey of practices using economic benefits and social service conditions, Report No. 232 2006. The report shows that social services use conditions to a large extent. The report also shows that conditions are applied to all types of beneficiaries. Young beneficiaries are the most frequent groups to which they are subject, followed by immigrants and long-term unemployed. The use of conditions appears to increase according to the report.» When the Council of State emphasises that the use of conditions seems to increase, it is right to study the report of Telemarksforsking Boø quantitatively. On the other hand, if one assesses the quality of the measures, it is clear that the conditions used most frequently do not contribute to a significant increase in job probability, as is also apparent in the Telemarksforsking Bøs conclusion in the report, where it states: ‘In other words, we see that the social service has extensive use of conditions, but these are mainly conditions that require relatively little of the clients.’ This shows that many municipalities are demanding and that their use is increasing. Since more and more municipalities are demanding, we assume that this results in good results for society and for the individual user. The introduction of the qualification programme has led to a statutory obligation for all municipalities to offer the programme, but this has not been followed up by any statutory obligation for the individual to participate in the programme. In the same letter of reply, the Council of State writes: ‘I agree with the proposers that it is desirable and important to make demands on beneficiaries of social assistance and that they should receive the necessary follow-up. It may help to keep the system open to the population, but, in particular, it may be important for the beneficiary by allowing the conditions to function as qualifying and contributing to the individual’s exit from a social welfare situation.’;» Nevertheless, the Council of State concludes that it is not appropriate to legislate on the requirement for activity. It seems something strange to me. The purpose of the proposal for a representative is not for everyone to have a qualification programme with their own benefits, but for everyone to have a statutory right to an individual follow-up plan and a general obligation of activity. This is also supported by the fact that there is a very high number of people receiving economic social assistance as the main source of income or as the only source of income. For these groups, a statutory right to an individual plan after three months, in combination with a general activity obligation, will help to reduce social security dependency and increase job probability. The scheme with requirements for activity is voluntary. As a result, the scheme varies from municipality to municipality, and from office to office, which seems inappropriate and unfortunate. I am therefore addressing the proposals to which I have referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e195	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e198	The right proposes a mandatory individual plan for social assistance recipients after three months, and an activity obligation that meets you in the form of a requirement at the moment you submit a social assistance application for the first time. The reason is worrying that a large group of people become beneficiaries of social assistance on a permanent basis. The majority share this concern. The majority are also familiar with the many positive experiences of different forms of education and training. This is precisely what is the main reason for the reforms we are currently implementing: Nav reform, new qualification programme, simplifications in the social welfare system of the people, easier access to labour market measures, consultation of changes in the social services law, and, last but not least, increased influence on users and their needs. However, where the majority do not support the proposals for a mandatory individual plan after three months and activity requirements from day one, it is because the proposals are unbalanced and break with a fundamental premise in the new reforms, namely the transition from a bureaucratic regulatory system to a discretion-based system, where decisions are taken close to users and in cooperation with users. We have already decided to remove some of the constraints of reason that were in our own budget lines, we have resolved in legislation on social benefits and measures and strengthened user involvement. The idea is that competence and common sense should get better conditions. Central authorities, including magnification, government and directorate, will end up with detailed management away from users that we have barely seen. It is almost that one can wonder whether the parties behind the minority position in this case have missed this very important point. For it is not the case today that there is no opportunity to impose conditions, that individual plans are prohibited, but it is the first line that assesses whether and when appropriate. We want more of this, not less. I therefore think the proposal from the Right is a total record bomb. It goes in the opposite direction to the decisions that the right itself has taken. Because with today's proposal, it is not the first line to address the user's needs. It shall determine by means of square legislation where ‘all beneficiaries of economic social assistance’ are cut over a comb and with a ‘general obligation of activity’ for all — back to regulation and bureaucracy. This is all the more incomprehensible since the proposers themselves have explained the great differences between beneficiaries of social assistance. The letters of the Council of State underline this further. The number goes down, but it's not the main point here. On the other hand, it's the fact that 21 pst. receive social assistance for only one month, that the average social benefit is 5,3 months, and that almost 60 pst. receive social benefits for a period of six months. It's an old word that warns against shooting sparrows with cannons. That's a good advice. Rather, let's use the forces on those who really need it instead of introducing a new bureaucracy. Conditions are too small, claim minority and refer to research. I guess it's drawing the research results a little bit well. As far as I can see, the said reports do not say anything about why conditions are used little, nor about how much more they should have been used. This may be because it was considered not appropriate for some of the users. Or perhaps because there have not been enough good enough measures to refer to? Now we're increasing those possibilities. We should allow the reforms to take place before we start to reverse them in our efforts. Good governance is not necessarily synonymous with frequent regulatory changes. Good management may as well, or rather, be the ability to long-term and trust those who are going to do the job outside. Finally, I am not really very surprised at the attitude of the Right and the Advance Party in this matter. It merges into a pattern. I'm basically more surprised that the Christian People's Party has chosen to hang out on. So at the same time, I will end by giving a little reward to the Left, which was not allowed to tempt this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e215	40000–60000 people live on economic social assistance and have it as their primary or sole benefit. So there's a large group of people who depend on social assistance on a more or less permanent basis. There can be little doubt that this is contrary to the intentions of the social services law. Social assistance shall be a short-term benefit, an emergency assistance during a transitional period. It'll never be that the qualification program with the extent it has, or seems to be able to get in the foreseeable future, will be able to solve the challenges for the group we're talking about here. By using the Social Services Act to make demands, you can help people faster. To make demands is to show care. With an obligation to work from auxiliaries, we will also have the opportunity to make a tailor-made offer. I find it difficult to see that this proposal could lead to something more bureaucracy than it already is – rather the opposite. At least it will produce better results, and that is what must be the goal of the whole aid, that it should help people to live a more dignified life. The study from Telemarksforsking Bø is used and misused to a significant extent. It is claimed that the report shows that social services use conditions to a large extent. Well, what the report at least shows is that activation and job clarification conditions are used to a small extent. The most frequently used conditions do not contribute to increasing job probability to a significant extent. Telemark Research Bø writes: ‘In other words, we see that the social service has extensive use of conditions, but these are mainly conditions that require relatively little of the clients.’ The majority, who oppose the proposal, justify the fact that, already today, Section 5-3 of the Social Services Act provides for the possibility to impose conditions on the granting of economic social assistance. Yes, it does. And how did this paragraph get into the law? I've checked a little bit of the story here. In 1991, the Stortinget was to deal with a revision of the social law. The case was, however, exposed and thus became a central theme of the local election campaign in 1991. Not least, there was a dispute with the Right's proposal that social assistance recipients could be assigned to municipal work. The most striking thing was the dispute the proposal created within the Workers' Party, where the Municipal Association threatened with the Labour Court if the proposal was adopted, while the Labour Party's mayor's candidate, Rune Gerhardsen, used the election campaign to promise to initiate coercive measures regardless of what the Stortinget decided. The Labour Party government at the time tried a political sanctuary, by promoting a bill in which the Right's proposal was rejected. But despite this, she was positive to the idea of the election campaign. At the first reading in November in Stortinget, she finally flagged by opposing the proposal. But she and the government suffered defeat in the Grand Duchy by the adoption of the Right's proposal with the support of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. It's part of the story that it's okay to bring with it. At that time, access to make demands was introduced. Today's debate is parallel to the situation in 1991. The working party was first opposed, but later became too. This will probably also be the case with the proposal we are considering here today, because it is positive that the Council of State gives us support in many ways in terms of the intention behind the proposal. He wrote in his reply to the Committee: ‘I agree with the proposers that it is desirable and important to make demands on the beneficiaries of social assistance and that they should be followed up as necessary. It may help to keep the system open to the population, but, in particular, it may be important for the beneficiary by allowing the conditions to function as qualifying and contributing to the individual’s exit from the social security situation.’;» That's basically very well said! I could hardly say better myself. Then we basically stand back with just one important question: Do we believe that a law on the requirement of activity and the obligation to follow-up will help more people out of a hopeless life situation? Right definitely means yes. Governments say no. Actually, it's a little funny when we know what strong belief the red-greens have in lawmaking as a tool in society building in many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e236	First, I would like to say that I agree with the article from the representative Lise Christoffersen, who I think put the matter in the right perspective. The issue is whether you have faith that it is people's opportunities and inherent abilities that need to be strengthened, and how best to do so – whether it is the whip or the carrot that is to be used the most. I think that if we're in disgust and run by others, it very rarely leads to a change in our own lives, and at least it never leads to a way of life and a way of life. I think that's what we need to start talking more about when we talk about people who live on social assistance, because what we know about that group is, among other things, that they are on average healthier than those who have disability benefits. I think that part of the increase we're now seeing in disability is that Nav has found some of these sickest ones again and has given them disability benefits. And that's good! I don't think making a stronger pressure on the individual in itself will lead to change. But I'm absolutely convinced that when the Nav offices and social services that make good arrangements around the individual, whether it's social assistance or hopefully the qualification program for most, many more will have the opportunity to reverse a difficult life situation. But I also think that it's largely because we don't create a system that's more and more based on the kind of thinking that the Right stands for, but it's good to get the system that's now called Nav, to become a system where people don't shrink and be discouraged, but are encouraged to find their own abilities and the desire to participate. I'm concerned about this because I'm absolutely convinced that someone needs a puff to get started. But I'm also sure that if you're going to be able to accept such a message, it's not the whip that's important to live in such a marginal situation that you do if you've lived on social assistance for a long time. The reason is that you have a trusting relationship with the auxiliary equipment you meet, and that they have a reasonable arrangement that allows you to see light in the tunnel and know where to go. I just want to remind you that the Church's City Mission and other non-profit organizations in a lot of cities have a lot of such actions for people living on social assistance, places where people can go and earn a hundred or two without getting social security benefits. And do people come there? Yes, they do. Russed people and others who have a terrible hard time go there because they're motivated by it, not because it's a whip, but because there's a carrot there, and because that job opportunities make them also able to get a status in society, which they sail very quickly notice very well. I mean we have to move along that line and not along the coercion line. It is important to stress that, over the last 20 years, fewer people have been receiving social assistance. The decline has never been as great as the last year, and the individual recipient now receives something more than before, reports the SSB. What's worrying is that one of three people who get social assistance is less than 30 years old. It's also true that not many people live on social assistance over a long period of time. One in three declared social security and retirement as the main source of income when they asked for social assistance, and for almost half of them, there is a disability pension. In that situation, it's a little pointless, I think, to impose on them the obligation of activity. There are also very few people who receive social assistance continuously for three years. So I think it's important that you don't now draw a wrong picture of the situation, but put in good tools that make more of those who live in such a difficult situation get the opportunity to master it, get into activity and get a better life than they have. I believe that part of this debate is about a notion that it is really quite easy to go to social assistance, and that it is something that some people ‘chosen’. It's a description that I want to take a great distance from. People who live on social assistance have a very difficult time. They want good help, but they want first and foremost opportunities. And it's our duty to give them – so that they get the endings to meet, and get an activity offer, a health offer and help for work training that allows them to get the most out of their difficult situation with their own help and of their own desire.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e253	I am aware that someone would say that this proposal from the Right is a bit like turning open the doors. Some would argue that the right to individual level is already legal for those who need long-term and coordinated services. In addition, Section 5-3 of the Social Services Act states that there is access to conditions for the granting of economic social assistance. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal. The right to individual levels of the Social Services Act shall ensure cooperation, interaction and coordination of different services, but there is not necessarily a plan for individual follow-up. Today's legislation also does not require when individual plans are to be made. The Christian People's Party believes that an interaction, where one gives individual follow-up quickly, as well as a requirement for participation, will lead to more people clarifying their situation. Telemark research In 2005-2006, a study on the use of social welfare benefits and conditions was carried out by Bø. The report concludes with: ‘In other words, we see that the social service has extensive use of conditions, but these are mainly conditions that require relatively little of the clients.’ For the Christian People's Party this gives cause for concern. It is important to see the individual human being and not underestimate the resources that many have. It's about human dignity and taking people seriously. The introduction of the qualification programme has led to a statutory obligation for all municipalities to offer the programme, but this has not been followed up by any statutory obligation for the individual to participate in the programme. The Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee — as others have also quoted: ‘I agree with the proposers that it is desirable and important to make demands on beneficiaries of social assistance and that they should receive the necessary follow-up. It may help to keep the system open to the population, but, in particular, it may be important for the beneficiary by allowing the conditions to function as qualifying and contributing to the individual’s exit from the social security situation.’;» The Christian People's Party agrees. I am therefore disappointed that the government parties do not take the consequences of this and vote in favour of the proposal. The aim of the proposal is not for everyone to have a qualification programme with their own benefits, but for everyone to have a statutory right to an individual follow-up plan and a general obligation of activity. This is also supported by the fact that there is a very high number of people receiving social assistance as the main source of income or as the only source of income. For these groups, a statutory right to an individual plan after three months, in combination with a general activity obligation, will help to reduce social security dependency and increase job probability. The Christian People's Party believes that the law should signal delimitation, and that it can rather design procedures that may differ from the rule in obvious cases where neither individual follow-up plan nor obligation of activity, at discretion, is considered necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the proposal for a representative, where the Government is asked to «propose proposals for amendments to the social services law, where: All beneficiaries of economic social assistance are guaranteed an individual follow-up plan within three months. A general obligation is introduced for the activity and follow-up of people receiving financial social assistance.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e283	I believe that there is a good intention behind this proposal for a representative, because of the concerns that are present in all the committees, given that we have a large group of people who need long-term and perhaps some permanent social assistance. The question is whether we need additional tools to deal with these problems, or whether the law covers the issues we are discussing here. The background to the proposal for a representative is the desire for a guaranteed individual follow-up plan and a general obligation of activity. Then it is important to look at the law as it is designed. It already gives you the right to an individual plan. It is stated in the Social Services Act § 4-3a. Access is granted to conditions in the paragraph. It becomes a little strange when we have a new law that is in many ways an innovation in which we have the ability to coordinate three different areas of service, that we do not give this law time to work and put into practice, and that we have confidence that the people of the Nav offices are able to provide a maximum of individual help. I think this is under the thought that the beneficiaries of social assistance are a uniform group. With some experience from that area, I can at least say that's the opposite of it. This is a highly heterogeneous group. It is strange that the Nav reform that we have adopted should be followed up with new working tools that involve detailed management of the process in each Nav Office, when the reform provides opportunities for the development of qualification programmes for people who are becoming dependent on or who have become dependent on long-term assistance. The law, as I see it, is an innovation in that it gives rise to the use of judgement to a greater extent than before – something that a good part of us have called for. It provides for the coordination of offers and just sewing together a single individualised, customised offer out of what was previously more offer. The proposal from the Right then becomes strange in view of a debate that we have had here earlier on the administrative reform, where the Right clearly expressed the desire to decentralize power and strengthen the municipal level. This is going the opposite way. For the Central Party and the undersigned, it is important to give the law time to evolve at the local level, to give it the form we have intended, and to give individuals a place and an offer that the law actually has the opportunity to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e296	I agree with the proposers that long-term reception of social assistance is a problem, and that close individual and obligatory follow-up is essential for many to be able to be lifted out of the social welfare situation and become self-sustaining. What I disagree with, however, is that there is a need for legislative change to ensure such follow-up. In my opinion, the existing legislation captures the interests of the proposers in a sufficiently good way. Today's laws contain an obligation for individuals to do everything they can to support themselves, to allow them to impose conditions on activities where appropriate, and to establish individual plans when the beneficiary needs long-term and coordinated services. In addition – and in my opinion, most importantly, to get the group we are talking about, working – new initiatives and instruments in the management of labour and welfare are being implemented or are to be implemented in the current year. The Qualification Programme is one of the main areas of activity of the Nav Offices in the coming years. The programme is a very important tool to get people who have been out of work for a long time or who lack experience in the workplace into work. The target group of the Programme is persons with significantly reduced labour and income capacity, who have no or only limited benefits in terms of social security. This is largely about people who are currently dependent on economic social assistance as the main source of income over longer periods of time, i.e. the group of representatives from the Right is concerned about. Nearly 5,300 applied for the programme in 2008. At the same time as the programme is being phased in, we have launched a research-based evaluation to respond to the programme's contribution to achieving the objectives set for the action, in particular if the programme contributes to the creation of more people in work and activity. The recently adopted rules on redundancy payments enter into force in the autumn of 2009. From then on, everyone with needs, including those receiving social assistance, is given the right to have a job assessment and a specific activity plan on how to get into work. In my opinion, this amendment meets the wishes of the proposers for an individual follow-up plan. In addition, I can mention that my department last week put forward proposals for a new social services law in the labour and welfare management at the hearing. The law will facilitate better coordination of services for the users of the Nav Office by bringing together the mandatory municipal services in the Nav Offices into one law and providing for cooperation in the Office. In order to strengthen legal certainty for people dependent on social assistance or in need of a qualification programme to get into work, we propose that the county should monitor the soundness of its services. We have a major reform during roll-out and an up-to-date and organised regulatory framework for the challenges ahead. The main challenge now must be to bring reform and action into line with the objectives set. In this context, the competence and follow-up of the local Nav office are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e321	Several municipalities have introduced requirements for social assistance recipients. There may be attendance in the morning; it may be snow-moking for the elderly; it may be mowing or other things. This has led to a decrease in payments, because some social welfare recipients have found that they might as well be able to go to work if they still have to attend. This is particularly true of young people. Many municipalities say that they will not make demands because the organisation of work is too expensive and that it does not give anything again. Of course, such thoughts will not help the individual, and it is particularly worrying that it will affect young people. The Council of State states that the appropriateness is essential. Is it, then, the economic situation in each municipality and whether it is considered difficult to organise or not, to decide whether it is appropriate or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e330	The introduction to the question by the representative shows that the current law is working. Thus, there is an opportunity to assess the individual claimant in relation to the possibility of applying for social benefits. That's exactly the purpose of the law as it is today. What is the strength of the wording of the law today in relation to what is now proposed is that it is an individual assessment in the local apparatus. It has therefore given the results to which the representative refers – some municipalities have good results. The starting point is precisely, as the representative Samuelsen said, that there is quite a difference between those who are applying for social assistance. So now we have the opportunity to evaluate each of these individually. Nor should one ignore the fact that some of those seeking social assistance may be in a life situation where there is no number of demands, which is the defect factor. In that case, the offer may be adapted to them in a way other than those required by an individual plan in order to start a different development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e337	I am pleased that the Council of State is not as unfine as some of those who have participated in the debate here today who are deliberately trying to suspect the intentions of our proposal. I'm glad the council doesn't. I record that the Council of State is committed to justify its refusal to our specific proposal that he does not consider it appropriate, at least not now. That's all right. But my question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State rule out the possibility that a legislative requirement for activity and follow-up can later become applicable when you have more experience with the new legislation and the qualification programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e344	I can only answer for the government that is now sitting and hopefully continues to sit forward. I see it as little time to introduce regulatory changes in the sense that are now being discussed in connection with this Document No. The 8 proposal, because it's possible today, after an assessment, to make demands. Telemark research has demonstrated that demands are being made to a large extent, but we are committed to assessing the individual social welfare beneficiary as an individual. It is those who have daily contact with the local Nav office – as all municipalities get it – who are able to assess it. For some, demands may be required to be a necessary tool to move on and on to a positive development, but there may also be social assistance recipients who have sufficient requirements and who may be in a different situation of life. And with today's formulation, there's room for a local assessment of the individual user. I thought maybe the Right also was concerned about having the user and the individual in the center. In this context, it looks like we're most concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e353	I think most of us think it is good that today there is an opportunity to develop an individual plan for those who need long-term and coordinated services. However, today's law does not require the availability of this individual plan. Does the Council of State not think that the faster a person can get started with help, the faster the applicant will get back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e360	Today, it is an obligation for the social welfare system, once co-located in Nav, to provide such an individual plan. But I repeat what I said in my previous answer: we need to be able to evaluate people based on individual needs. Some of those who receive social assistance have a rather challenging life situation, and what we're concerned about is that it's those who deal with the individual case, who are best placed to assess what serves our common purpose of helping people back to activity, based on a local assessment of the individual client. I would also like to stress that when we now see more than 5,000 applicants for qualification measures last year, I think it is a result that surprises most, given how many have gone on long-term social assistance, which has now received a permanent wage base with commitments that need to be followed up, in order to overcome a difficult life situation. I think we're in on a track that will give us a positive development in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e367	I feel that the answer I received instead was an answer to something other than what I asked for. In the case of individual plans, I am very much in agreement with the Government's response. But my question was this: when, for organizational reasons, a municipality does not want to make such an offer because it becomes too expensive for the municipality or it does not have the capacity to organise the scheme, that means that it is not the individual assessment of the individual social welfare beneficiary that is being made, but an organisation in the municipality. A law would have meant that all the municipalities would have made such an assessment. An individual assessment of the individual could, of course, conclude that there was no basis for making demands on the individual, but it should therefore be a general assessment. Wouldn't that be the right way to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e374	As I said in my first answer – which I think was an answer to what the representative asked for – this shows that the individual municipalities have chosen to organise this in working groups, if we can call them that, i.e. in teams that have different tasks in the community, and that it can be a good solution in some places. In other places, it may be a good solution to have agreements with local employers, enterprises, against protected activities. So there can be a variety of solutions that give the ability to provide the activity training that for a large part of the social welfare recipients will be the right solution. We believe that with the law we have, with the possibility of requiring different obligations from the social welfare beneficiary in order to receive social assistance, we give the opportunity of the diversity we have in Norway and the individual needs that exist. It may be that the situation, for example: in Fauske is something different, and it may be something different to organise the same offer in Oslo. That's the diversity we think it should be room for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e381	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e386	The majority in this case have a strange attitude towards Storting's tasks. When you don't like the proposals, you call it procedure. But for the Storting to think something about the obligations of social welfare recipients and, for that matter, their rights, is not proceedings. To call that a discharge. When the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, Lise Christoffersen, says that there is competence and common sense to govern the decisions, I cannot agree more. There is no one who is more of a believer than the Right, but that does not prevent there from being rules at the bottom. Our intention of this proposal is just to legislate a right to an individual plan for follow-up and obligation of activity. It must be possible for Stortinget to believe something about it without it being rejected as a case-by-case procedure. It seems obvious that rapid individual follow-up, activity, participation and performance requirements, combined with individual rights, are a quick way to clarify and a way back to work and better opportunities to live on their own income. The fact that social welfare beneficiaries are not a homogeneous group, as the majority points out, does not weaken the weight of the fact that there should be clear targets at the bottom of legislative and granting authorities. The fact that the target group is heterogeneous means that judgement is to be used differently in relation to rights and obligations, but not that rights and obligations cannot be defined. It's therefore mysterious to me when the same majority emphasizes that 70 pst. social assistance recipients are repeaters, who do not want to participate and make the most of this possible improvements. I would like to say a few words to the representative Karin Andersen, who says that the Right's proposal involves a particular idea of social welfare recipients. It does. It implies the idea that it is desirable and important to make demands on the beneficiaries of economic social assistance and to provide follow-up. It can help to maintain the disintegration of such social welfare schemes in the population. We think it's important to them that they get better qualifications and get out of their social welfare situation. If anyone thinks that this memory of a quote from the Council of State's letter to the Committee, that's quite right. So the Council of State agrees with us, and I can't agree with his comments any more. That is why we have promoted this proposal. It's just so sad that the majority has come to completely different conclusions along the same lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e397	As the Council of State and several of my co-representatives have made clear, there is no need for the proposal that the opposition is promoting. The possibilities of setting conditions and following up on the way they are called for to create an individual plan lie there, but the reasons for addressing the different measures must therefore be in a local social assessment linked to the individual. With that opportunity, combined with the qualification programme that has been set up, we believe that there is a great and improved opportunity for many of those in social assistance to get into a better life situation. But then this must be based on an individual assessment that does not rely on Stortinge’s having given certain rules on how this should be done, because then some of the variations that need to be introduced here in relation to the situation in life break. As the Council of State also says, many of these people do not lack demands in life – these are some of the most demanding lives at least I know about. Something that there might have been greater reason to look at than going along the line where everyone is going into the same method, is the fact that three out of four of those printed out by child protection, are going straight to social assistance. There are people we know who is, and as we know, have lived a very demanding life, and who probably need something quite different from this kind of law change in order for the improvement in their lives to become real. That's necessary, because there's a lot of bad lives that start that way. We had a seminar at Stortinget last week. There was one from the Association Alternative to Violence who said that the road from the injured child to the disadvantaged adult is paved with binding research. I think that's absolutely right. I think there's reason to make greater demands on the authorities, on how we treat these people that we find again as social welfare recipients -- some of them out and in through a long and difficult life. If we're really busy doing something about the situation of these people, there's another approach that goes through better offers, that helps that it's the individual seafarer who's going to be allowed to improve his life, not some kind of demarcation that the Christian People's Party surprisingly takes on today. It surprises me very much that it is said in this situation to people who may have the most difficult lives we can imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e407	I found it necessary to draw a picture when the representative Karin Andersen started talking about children's protection. It's a theme I'm reasonably engaged in. Just that group is perhaps the best example of an individual group that had deserved the law to set up an individual plan, as we actually propose in our proposal. I cannot, with my best will, understand that Karin Andersen can argue against it. Otherwise I am glad that Karin Andersen in his second post added a completely different tone than in the first. In the first post, she was injured to repeat what has been her technique in a number of debates in the past, namely first to engage in a profoundly unfair caricature of the policies of political opponents, and then to take a strong distance from and argue against positions that you do not have. I am glad she in her second post let it be, and hope that she will not continue with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e414	Right-wing proposals are not needed, says the representative Karin Andersen in his second post, and I think that is a good idea. It has also been said by the Council of State that he believes, and that is what the Speaker of the Right in this matter, Martin Engeset, has said that he accepts in many ways. Then I am glad that Andersen's representative does not repeat his characterisation and suspicion of our proposal. We have the same commitment to the people involved, to the representative Karin Andersen. She reveals this often and strongly in Stortinget and elsewhere. It's very profitable, but I don't think it gives us any chance to question our intentions with the proposals. When she's factually on the other hand, as she's now been in her second post, I think it's all right. Debates at levels other than that, I think we should not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1908]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e437	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e446	Through this vote, the Storting will deal with a proposal by the undersigned, Bård Hoksrud and Per Sandberg, proposing that a separate notification on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation should be submitted. The majority reject the proposal – they do not want to talk about it. The parties Right, Christian People's Party and Left will attach the proposal protocol – they will not mean anything about it. The Progress Party is promoting proposals for such a large-scale communication. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party. I remember the following: Before we started with national transport plans, sectoral plans were developed, the last time in 1996–1997, when, among other things, they were drawn up. post St.meld. No 38 for 1996-1997, Norwegian Air Navigation Plan 1998-2007. The document provided a broad discussion of objectives, the role of aviation and challenges during the 10-year period. It also made its own major messages on maritime transport and rail, as well as its own document on the basis of transport policy and on the balances, priorities and planning frameworks for the transport sector during the same ten-year period, 1998–2007. It is not certain that one major national plan, as we have now had a time in Norway, is an unconditionally better solution. The Progress Party believes that it may be useful to complement the National Transport Plan with sectoral messages in order to have a more thorough discussion of good solutions for each sector. In the treatment of the national transport plan, the dominant focus is on roads and railways. The treatment of the plan does not allow for more thorough treatment of important issues for individual transport sectors. The Progress Party also believes that there should be a perspective communication on the different transport sectors, with prospects that can be expected to run 30 years in time, with important national targets and associated strategies being set. On this basis, the Progress Party has been asked a number of times to receive a new aeronautical message. First we've been met with rejection. However, in the 2007 state budget, it was said: ‘On this basis, the Ministry of Transport will start work on developing a strategy for Norwegian aviation. The aim of the strategy is to provide an overview of the situation in Norwegian aviation and to assess what measures may be taken. should be put into action. Security shall be of the highest priority.’;» In June 2008, there was a separate strategy note, the report ‘The Strategy for Norwegian Aviation’. In the foreword, the government wire says: ‘However, the strategy will be an important input into the National Transport Plan Report for the period 2010–2019, the Aviation Strategy is an independent document allowing for more in-depth discussion of aviation than the National Transport Plan.’ [[...]] In these green times, it is clearly not important and not ‘in’ to talk in depth about aviation. The proposal by the Progress Party on an aviation message is important, it is necessary and it is relevant – yes, it is actually urgent. The development of aviation, with the emergence of new companies, new routes and the fall of established companies, is a major change in aviation. Notice from the board meeting of the SAS group yesterday on a new strategic device for SAS with a new issue of SEK 6 billion underlines the need for an aviation notification. This once again raises the question of Norwegian ownership of SAS. We recall that this is among the circumstances the Progress Party wants to assess in a big deal about aviation. The document created by the Government is a good document. There has been no political treatment; it has been presented in a press release. I stress from the letter of reply to the Council of State that issues relating to the strategy, which lie outside the national transport plan, will be addressed by the Government ‘renewed in other contexts’. We believe that a good context to do so in is its own big message, which addresses the challenges and opportunities that lie within the aviation sector in the years to come – an area that is in great development. We are once again promoting the proposal – we have done it before – to remove the passenger roof on Back. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e485	The President then perceives that the representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up proposals No. 1 and No 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e488	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e493	The proposers in this case want an opportunity to debate the aviation policy in Norway and propose their own notification. This is the occasion for a major communication on the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, and it will be shortly. This is a good opportunity to discuss aviation in conjunction with other forms of transport and communication. For me and the Workers' Party, a separate big message about aviation is completely out of date, because it will bring us back to a situation like that before 2002 with a plan for each transport sector – a backward step. Having said that, I must admit that I and the Workers' Party disagree with the opinion of the proposers of the challenges facing aviation and therefore the whole background to the proposal. One example is the criticism of the solidarity scheme in which Avinor uses the revenues from a few large airports to keep the many small ones alive in our long country. The system is good and crucial for the districts, and the Labour Party sees no need to discuss that scheme. But we know that the Progress Party wants such a discussion. In a newspaper essay with one of the proposers, Per Sandberg, in the World Gang last May, it became clear that he wants fewer airports. Under the heading ‘25 Norwegian aerodromes shall depart’, he argues for a halve of aerodromes. People in the districts have probably noticed these consequences of the Advance Party's desired aviation policy. The Labour Party wants good communications throughout the country. The proposers will also deal with the Moss Airport concession Rugging over the table here in Stortinget. I understand that they hope there may be political gains to pick up such a proposal, but many will probably reveal this and see that there is an attempt at completely irresponsible proceedings. So briefly summarized: the National Transport Plan proposal from the Government will come in a month, and then we will have the opportunity to discuss the major lines of transport policy throughout the spring. In addition, the majority of parties disagree with the views of the proposers on what are key challenges in aviation, and we have no intention whatsoever of dealing with any concession request in the main hall. A natural consequence of this summary is that we recommend the proposal rejected in Stortinget and ask for an understanding of this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e506	From the Right-wing side, I would like to say that there are important and strategic issues for the development of Norwegian aviation that are addressed in this proposal for a representative. There are issues that should involve everyone who is involved in aviation policy and that it still needs to be modernised and developed in line with users’ expectations. So the Right is ready for a broad debate on these issues, but we think such a debate is getting better and more nuanced when we know the Government's strategy paper, the National Transport Plan, which is coming in the near future. Otherwise, I can tell you that we in the Right have already begun to develop our own national transport plan, where we will of course also address these questions. The Council of State says in a letter to the Committee that most of the issues mentioned in the proposal for a representative will be addressed to the NTP, and we have confidence in that. So, from our point of view, we do not want to go into the reality of the many issues raised in the proposal for a representative, as close as one point, and this is an emergency situation, namely developments at Moss Airport Rygge – both in the interests of non-discrimination and in the interest that, in most respects, competition leads to better services for users. This is the main right focus, and therefore we believe it is important to have a quick change of the terms of the concession on the Back, as regards both the passenger roof and the opening hours. That is why we believe it is right to deal with this issue today. Finally, I would like to address the proposal where the Right is co-rapporteur and which has not been promoted in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e519	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e522	These are turbulent times in Norwegian aviation. As the representative of Sortevik also pointed out, there were quite dramatic signals from the SAS board meeting yesterday, and I just want to say that it will be incredibly important to have a good debate on Norwegian aviation when the national transport plan comes. Unlike the government parties, the Christian People's Party believes that several of the issues raised in the proposal for a representative are important and deserve attention. I think it's a little strange when the majority writes in the vote that they do not share ‘the opinion of the proposers of what are key challenges to aviation’. A number of issues that the proposal for a representative touches on are central to Norwegian aviation policy, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. It's a relationship that you have to have an active position to any party. Rejecting important challenges is to take it far, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. We agree with the rapporteurs that there is a need for an offensive and modern aviation policy. At the same time, we have noticed that the Council of State, in its letter to the Committee, goes a long way in promising that the conditions mentioned in the proposal for a representative will be included in the national transport plan. We choose to trust that that will happen. That is why we believe it is natural to await this plan, and we are therefore co-sponsors that the draft representative should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e531	The left considers that the representative proposal addresses several important issues in Norwegian aviation. However, this is a comprehensive case, and it cannot be seen in isolation. The government has announced that the national transport plan will be presented in a short time. It is natural for the Government to take the recordings with it in connection with this work. The Left also argues that the Government proposes that the Storting should have a wide-ranging review of aviation issues related to NTP. The left is concerned with good communication across the country. The network is important in this way. Cross-subsidy within Avinor and public purchases of air traffic ensure this nationwide network, which has been visited by several people here. This is important both for people and businesses in the districts, how many do not have other options. It is also important for the business community in central Europe. Large parts of our resource base are in the districts. These are resources that create values for the whole country. The current system of Gardermoen as the hub of the national airport network is a good system that contributes to good offers and good communications. In the case of private airports in the East, the Left wishes to welcome them as an addition to the Gardermo. The left believes that it is important to facilitate diversity within the aircraft structure even where there is a market basis for it. Sandefjord Airport Torp and Moss Airport Rygge are important in an interaction with the country's main Gardermoen airport. The left considers that these two airports should have similar concessional frameworks and otherwise as much economic and operational framework conditions as possible in relation to Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Moss Airport Rygge has indicated that the aerodrome is discriminated against by introducing a roof on the number of passengers. This airport is the only major Norwegian airport with restrictions on the number of passengers. The left will therefore change the concession for Moss Airport Rygge. With the existing concession, there is a manifest imbalance between the permitted number of flight movements and the permitted number of passengers. Left supports the proposal set out in the decision to raise the passenger ceiling and allow late landings in special situations. The aerodrome may thus also serve as a reserve for the Gardermoen in the event of fog at the latter aerodrome. In conclusion: Locally, as an environmental party, the Left has been concerned for a long time that the waste water from the airport would contaminate Lake Van, which is also a drinking water source. As they now see it locally, this is well taken care of, but you have to keep track of where, and the left will follow closely in this area. In addition, at local level – which has my full support – they believe that when the airport first lies there, there is little environmental benefit in the fact that people from Østfold transport themselves to and from Gardermoen when they can fly directly from Rygge. Eastfold Left has been clear on, for example: in the county council and towards me, that they wish to clarify the operating framework by applying for the necessary changes to the concession. This is important in order to reintroduce the democratic process through a new concession round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e549	No one should doubt this government's willingness to ensure a good flight offer throughout the country. We keep up a fine-skinned airport structure, bets on the purchase of air routes on Wolfy routes and has an active role in European and international cooperation in the field of aviation. This is because well-functioning aviation is important for the country and to ensure growth and development throughout the country. In the proposal, representatives Sortevik, Hoksrud and Sandberg Reginingen are asking for their own notification of aviation policy, based on the strategy for Norwegian aviation that I presented in June 2008. In the past, the Government presented its own sectoral plans for each of the transport sectors, including: for aviation. The size pointed out at several times that the sectoral plans did not allow Stortinget to see transport policy in an overarching context. In St.meld. No 4 for 1996–1997, the 1998–2001 long-term programme, announced to the existing government that it would present a holistic plan for road and road traffic, aviation, rail, ports and ferries. The proposal was approved in Stortinget, cf. Inner. S. No 211 for 1996-1997. Two major messages on the national transport plan have been submitted so far. I am now finishing work on the third plan, which covers the period 2010–2019. In June 2008, I presented a strategy for Norwegian aviation. The background to the strategy was the turmoil we experienced in Norwegian aviation at the end of 2005 and the beginning of 2006. The aim of the strategy was to identify strategies for government policies in this area over the next few years. The proposers refer to a list of things that they do not think are sufficiently clear in the strategy, and which they think should be clarified in a separate notification of aviation policy. In general, I will show that the strategy is doing well for today's situation and discusses challenges and actions at a superior level. The strategy was not intended to provide detailed solutions to all issues. But I would also like to point out that the list of proposers shows that there is real political dissatisfaction between the Government Party and the Progress Party in a number of areas, including in relation to aviation policy. For me, it was an intention that the strategy should not be involved in undermining the role of the national transport plan forecasting tool in the transport sector. I was therefore aware that the strategy should not be presented as an own big message. Instead, the strategy has acted as a response to the transport plan’s staging message. Otherwise, the strategy takes up themes that are specific to aviation and that it would not be natural to include in the transport plan. This last applies to others. issues outside transport policy. I also aim to provide an owner’s message about Avinor in the spring session. In addition to the national transport plan, there will be ample opportunity to discuss different aspects of Norwegian aviation policy. Most of the transport policy issues that have been addressed in the strategy will come back to me in the transport plan, where they will be dealt with in a coherent transport policy context. In addition, as I said, I intend to send a big message about the company in Avinor. It is also made a theme from the opposition that the airport of Rygge is in a discussion about extending the concession terms. The concession for the airport at Rygge was given in its time by the Bondevik II government. Both traffic and other targets for the airport’s operations were then determined. In response to the requests from the municipalities around the Airport, Østfold County Municipality and the company myself, I have said that I am prepared to conduct an assessment of the concession upon application. It also states that the contents of the Airports tariff regime should be assessed. As far as I know, the cork department or the Air Safety Authority has received such an application. We have notified concession holders that we want a meeting to go through the scope of the concession process. It is important that such a concession process is properly managed so that all sides are evaluated. I've been open to do that, but it can't be done by an urgent decision. It has to be done through a process where we're going to take seriously the challenges that Rygge is facing, and put them into a social and good context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e575	Two things: When the Council of State in a letter has replied that the Government will come back to issues outside the strategy, outside the national transport plan, it is the notification of Avinor’s activities, or there are other matters that will be addressed by other means, including: With the Storting? Then, of course, the reference to yesterday's earthquake in SAS is a good example of the fact that the framework conditions and the situation in aviation are changing quite dramatically and quite quickly. The second thing we have pointed out is concerns about aviation safety. It was a big look in the Evening Post on Friday: «More fluke than any ante». We have referred to the report that came from the Directorate of Administration and ICT last November, with a total of seven recommendations related to the lack of competence of air traffic control authorities. What will the Council of State do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e584	When it comes to the situation in SAS, it's a group case that I can't, of course, go ahead and discuss with the Storting. It is a matter which the SAS Group itself, together with its owners, including the state – the state ownership is managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade – must resolve. But of course, the developments we see in SAS could have implications that are important to discuss with Stortinget. It will only be possible to continue to show us, as we are today ensuring that the operations of SAS in Norway will continue. When it comes to aviation security conditions, I would like to stress that what is otherwise in transport policy is paragraph No. 1st@item: inlistbox It will also, of course, be discussed in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e591	Governments highlight the document Strategy for Norwegian Aviation as an important document in the development of NTP. From the Right, we believe this is an interesting document, and we therefore support that view. However, we also believe that many, by far the most, of the issues addressed in the proposal for a representative are important in this respect. The Council of State has referred these questions to the NTP treatment, although it now indicates that she disagrees with many of the themes, as they have been presented. They are, however, interesting for the political debate. I would like to ask the Council of State: can she confirm that the issues listed in the proposal for a representative are dealt with in the national transport plan, which is presented in a month's time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e596	I cannot say that all the themes listed in this Document are. The 8 proposal, will be recorded. For example, airspace capacity, in total domestic and regional terms, is referred to as a challenge, which we will come back to in the owner’s message about Avinor, where it belongs at home. I'm forced to sort what's here -- what's naturally going to be the right home in the national transport plan, what's going to be the right home in the owner's message, and what's going to be natural to record, for example. in the context of the budget. I must be allowed to sort it a little and come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e603	On 19 November 2004, the previous government, with the Minister of Transport from the Left, granted a concession to operate civil traffic at Moss Airport Rygge, on which the Council of State was also involved. The concession was granted after a broad democratic process in which all interests had an opportunity to be heard. My question to the Council of State is: Will the current Minister of Transport do the same with regard to the challenges we face with regard to the passenger ceiling, which has been debated around?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e610	Changing the concession terms implies a whole process, because it has implications. We have to look at the consequences for noise, for commercial reasons, for the role of the aerodrome in the overall airport structure, for environmental considerations, for business development, etc. All of this is relevant for inclusion in that discussion. Therefore, a thorough and broad process is required. It is the Air Safety Authority that is responsible for conducting the investigation, so the application will be sent there. Then it's the Ministry of Transport that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e615	I think it's a little special that the Council of State says that these are things that you will come back to in connection with the national transport plan, and that safety is in the high seat and number one in aviation. In that case, I think it is something special that the Department chooses to hold back a report that slaughters in many areas or is very critical of some of the activities and execution of the Air Safety Authority, and that includes, among others, the following: firm inertia: accidents still open in the 1990s are in the safety of the Air Safety Authority. The question to the Council of State is why she does not come back to Stortinget and properly informs about the type of serious reports that you get to know about, and why she actually chooses to withhold the report and only publishes it after massive pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e622	I would say that the representative of Hoksrud is making something very wrong. It is important for us when we get a report, that we go through the report and the premises he's set up, with the Air Safety Authority at ease and at ease. It has never been our intention to keep this report away from the public. The most important thing we can do with this report is to make sure that the points made there are followed up and corrected. I'm on it. I would also like to stress that at no time has there been a risk that Norwegian aviation would be insecure. As is also the case in transport policy, as I said, the most important thing is to ensure the safety of passengers, as well as ensuring that we have a well-functioning aviation sector, which at the beginning of my period took quite a lot of time and effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e629	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e635	I would first like to return to what the Council said in the reply to my reply when it came to the report from Diffi – that it was important that the department sat down and spent time looking at the things that came out. Now it is like this that the report was quite a long time in the Ministry of Transport without anything happening. It was only when the report began to be sought and some critical questions were asked, that the report was published. I find it very critical that things back to the 1990s are still open to the Air Safety Authority, that they are not corrected. This clearly shows that it is important to get this debate, that we have a proper debate on Norwegian aviation policy. My fear is that if you are going to discuss this in connection with your national transport plan, it can quickly drown in the discussion about road sections, routes and other important things that people are concerned about. My fear is that aviation security is actually becoming a very small part of the big discussion. There is also some background to the desire to have a broad discussion and a broad big message that actually addresses the challenges facing Norwegian aviation. The representative of Sortevik and several others were concerned about the situation, among other things. SAS, which is now in need of additional filling, is considering cancelling with 3,000 employees in the company. This is a serious situation, and it shows that Norwegian aviation, along with international aviation, is facing major challenges. That's why we want to discuss this. It is a little regrettable that the Workers' Party's counter-argument in discussing this is that it will come back to it in the context of the national transport plan, and therefore they do not need to take these discussions now. They say that NTP is coming soon. Yes, we have now experienced that NTP has been exposed three times, and the signals suggest that it can actually go a little further before the national transport plan comes to treatment in Stortinget, based on the deadline as per. Today is true. It could be interesting, when the Council of State is here today, to know when the national transport plan finally comes to treatment in Stortinget. Then the Labour Party representative goes into attack on the Progress Party because we want another way to finance this and believe that the cross-subsidisation system is a good way to finance aviation and the regional airports that don't have any profit. The problem now is that you have a government that is not very happy in aviation, and that actually wants to impose many restrictions on aviation. This means that those airports that are currently not profitable will face greater challenges when those airports that are per. Today is profitable, but as with the sharp decline we are now seeing in air traffic, it will be less profitable. So there's a risk that you'll get less passenger traffic at the airports. This is why it becomes more important to take on the challenges and ensure that you get a government purchase – which you have on the railways, which you have on maritime transport and which you also have in aviation to some extent – so that you are sure you get the offer and the service you want, including in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e648	I refer you to the report of the Directorate of Administration and ICT on the competence of the Air Safety Authority. I'll briefly refer from page 2: ‘In this evaluation, we conclude that the problem is both about varying administrative competences at individual level and about systematic weaknesses at organisational level.’ This is the supervisory authority responsible for ensuring the flight safety of all of us travelling by plane in Norway. We are concerned that it is being followed up in a good and thorough manner and is not being covered and put in a drawer in the department. A small comment to the representative Fall: when we want sector-specific discussions through our own documents, large-scale messages, it is in the view of the Progress Party not to go back, but it is to complement a national plan, as we now know the planning system of the national transport plan, to look at the specific sector challenges that each transport sector actually has. By doing that in supplementary documents, we see that we're not introducing a backtrack, but we're doing things better. We make it possible, in a much more thorough and thorough way than we are going to do in the NTP treatment in the Storting, to look at the specific strategies that are needed to meet the challenges that are specific to each sector. Now I am very pleased that the Council of State started by stressing the importance of a good flight offer throughout the country, and that it is obviously a strategy for the Government. But the strategy note has not been submitted for political treatment. That is what we want. We believe that this is a good document. We're glad that it's come, we've actually been asking for something similar for a long time, and was first rejected on it. We are pleased that the Government has drawn up a strategy on something as important as Norwegian aviation, but we want it to be a broad political treatment of it, and we believe that we can best do that by getting an additional message, a separate big message, about aviation. We would like to draw a parallel: maritime transport in Norway has been treated as calmly as aviation is about to become. This underlines the fact that two key sectors are in fact in need of specific and specific treatment for their areas. Finally, on Rygge: We do not experience the proposal to remove the roof as a procedure. We see it as an important signal from Stortinget if they want it to, and state that no major airports in Norway will have passenger roofs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e664	I feel the need to deepen a bit and link some comments to SAS, which have been mentioned by several people, because it is an important matter. Of course, when it comes to the issue that has been announced today, there is a withdrawal of the Stortinge's approval. I am sure that Sylvia Brustad, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, will carry out both good information and communication and, of course, ensure anchoring and decision in Stortinget before the Government enters into anything that obliges the Norwegian State. I am, of course, as Minister of Transport, most busy in the transport policy aspects of the case. There is no doubt that SAS has a central role in Norwegian affairs and that the interaction between Onderøe and SAS provides a seamless supply for both domestic and foreign travel. So what I have understood and am informed about is that the business strategy means that SAS will focus on routes within the Nordic region and to and from the Nordic region, that the internal network in Norway should be kept up with the new business strategy, and that SAS, as in the past, will of course need to assess route provision/frequency on business terms. It is also important to note that Norway, which buys services from Onkøe on the regional network, will continue to operate with Onkøe as a company, with the same role as it is now, and, in this way, the business strategy provides a basis for the good maintenance of the route provision in Scandinavia. It is important for us that we have a good offer both from SAS and other airlines competing in the Norwegian market. In the case of the diffi report, this concerns the extent to which the management competence of the aviation oversight system can be enhanced. It doesn't have consequences for aviation security itself, it's important to establish. This is about the administrative competence of an organisation that has moved, which has had to build up quite a lot of new skills, and which I think is about to establish itself with the weight that it is going to have competent. But of course, we are now looking carefully and not least following up what is pointed out in the diffi report. However, it is important to distinguish a little here between the type of competence a set of question marks, so that we do not now doubt that Norwegian aviation is safe. I mean, there's no reason. We shall follow up from the department's side to the supervision of the administration of the establishment and, where appropriate, inform the Storting on these matters in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e673	I am pleased that a large number of people here think that aviation discussions, aviation strategy and aviation policy are at home in the national transport plan. It will be a step back if you don't see aviation together with both road, path and ferry and have a complete look at the challenges of transport. It's good that it's the Progress Party that's going to be standing alone about that. The other is the content of it, and as the representative of the Fallet said, and as far as the Council of State was concerned, it is a real disunity, among other things. when cross-subsidies are involved. So the point of progress is that it's going to be state-owned purchases, on the same line as the railway and other areas as it was called. I think we should be very happy that we're able to keep up this cross-subsidy within aviation. This means that aviation is largely self-financed. If we're going to put it on the state budget, it's a challenge, because within a given framework, it's going to go against something. What are we going to reduce in the transport sector to finance it? The second is that our entire airport structure will become more uncertain when one is going to depend on the government budgets. We see that it's always a challenge for Avinor to do this cross-subsidisation and self-financing. That's why the government has clearly signaled that a non-profit should be paid, and one has increased the loan options for Avinor. So changing that system I think would be a future weakening of the aviation structure we have. So a little bit to SAS. I think the strategic features that SAS itself is now doing are quite correct. They will focus on the core business, regular services to and from Scandinavia, they will reduce leisure traffic, on which they have a significant deficit, and they will try to sell away some other business that they have engaged in. For us, as the Council of State was also in, that is what will be decisive – not ownership primarily, but that we have SAS with its good route provision in Scandinavia, both within Scandinavia and between Scandinavia and other countries. I hope that what SAS is doing right now is helping to strengthen and consolidate the transport supply that SAS has, and that we, as users, are all totally dependent on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e684	Two things in the end. One concerns security, and I refer from page 3 of the same report, the diffi report: ‘The supervision consists of a large number of new and inexperienced inspectors and is still working on recruitment to Bodø. It is common to assume that it takes at least two years to train an inspector. This means that supervision will also be in an exceptional situation in the coming years [[...]] If this is what the Evening Post referred to last Friday, that the Air Safety Authority spends 15 years following accidents, and that half of the advice from the Hawaiian Commission has not yet been taken into consideration, there is reason to take a closer look at it. So for cross subsidisation. The Progress Party believes that the option, namely state purchases of services, is an excellent alternative and is used in other transport sectors. But that's a bit of a paradox, for example. illustrated by the inauguration of the representative of Rudihagen, where he expresses the functioning of this system and the importance of maintaining a number of aerodromes, that at the same time the Government and other parties which have joined the so-called climate agreement have as one of their objectives the suppression of the use of air transport, i.e. passenger traffic by aircraft, in South Norway and the replacement of it by other means of transport. After all, the main economic nerve of the cross-subsidisation system is being attacked. And then you have to say it as clearly as you choose to criticize the alternative of the Progress Party to cross-subsidy, which is state purchases of services. So finally – and then there are actually three things, but I forgot it instead – to the representative Fallet, who referred to a look-up with Per Sandberg in VG last year: what he said was that when we get a well-developed highway network across the country, also to North Norway, it will be possible to look at the airport structure in a completely different way from what we can do today. And that's something quite different than how the representative Fallen tries to represent it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e698	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e706	The increase shall then be added to the number of cases. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e713	During the debate, Kenneth Svendsen has presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e744	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 3, from Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e770	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the conditions of concession for Moss Airport Smoking are changed without delay. Limitations in the number of passengers are removed and the opening time is set to 0 p.m. 06.00 to 24.00, however, to allow landing after 06.00 to 24.00 24:00 if late arrival.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e784	There will then be no alternative between the setting and proposal No. 2, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03.ana.ud227e842	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
