ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-19-lower.ana.ud2391e452	Since this is the last odelsting, the President will take the opportunity to say a few words. Ladies and gentlemen. Since 1814, the Constitution has stipulated that Stortinget should divide into two departments – Odelstinget and Lagtinget – when it deals with legislative proposals. That's the way it's been all year. From 1 October 2009, Odelstinget and Laginget will go into history. Following a decision in 2007 to amend the Constitution, the Stortinget will no longer operate in two different departments when dealing with legal cases. This will end a long parliamentary tradition. The inspiration for the proposal to divide the Storting into two departments during legal proceedings brought to the Eidsvollsförmällse. from the American and English institutions, although the results in us were quite different from the two-chamber systems in these countries. In some respects, the Norwegian system is unique among the world's democracies. There are no other examples of a country choosing a national parliament first, and of subsequently dividing itself into two departments for the treatment of certain types of cases. Now, of course, when noddling and laying are closed, it is primarily a national historic milestone, but also a small historical event in the international parliamentary context. In a note to the Adler-Falsen Constitutional Draft, the names odelsting and laying say that they have the advantage of being derived from the ancient languages of the country. If it's Odelstinget, it's called in particular: "Freedom of nobility was the freedom of taxation of the former; by the right to decide, even voluntarily, the taxes which it will grant, the people shall in a manner regain their freedom of nobility, and the assembly which, in the way of the nation, determines the fees and fees, therefore seems to be entitled "Odels-Things of Norway." Otherwise, it is emphasised by several representatives at Eidsvoll that the intention of the two-part division is to ensure thorough and well-considered legislation. Jacob Aall expresses it quite beautifully in his memories: "However, it was most appropriate to give cause for Serne's careful treatment by dividing things into two sections, thus providing a more careful discussion, a more serious consideration during a period of time, and stopping decisions that were in vain." In Storthing's negotiations, the first odelsting meeting is: «Aar 1814, Tuesday 11 October, after Norway's convoked supreme Storthing, corresponding to the 74th section of the Basic Law, had settled in Lag- und Odels-Thing, the members of Odelsthing were, with the exception of Professor Krogh, who had a history of sickness, meeting in what they assigned to Locale in the learned Schools Building in Christiania, for, in accordance with the Constitution, to select President and Secretary.» The school's building was then Christiania Cathedral School, where the Stortinget held its meetings until 1854. The president was elected sorenographer Wilhelm Frimann Koren Christie, and every eight days he was re-elected – throughout the session. The same thing happened in Stortinget. So he was president of both the Storting and Odelstinget. The first three laws which were dealt with in adjoining and laying under the Constitution were finalised in October 1815 on the basis of a government proposal. The first two concerned economic conditions. Rules were laid down on the use of border waterways by Norwegian and Swedish citizens, and a charge for the sale of ships was lifted. The third case concerned a more fundamental issue, namely the imposition of a ban on the use of torture and mutilation or the denunciation of property and property as punishment. Especially in the first half of the 1800s there was a power struggle between the two things before the law came to its final form, and a power shift in favor of the Odelstone was noticeable quite early in the history of the Storting. Among other things, asked questions about the ability of the laymen to promote legislative proposals and to participate in the negotiations in Odelstinget, and a tendency to consider Lamentations as a place of banishment applied to some. The first woman to speak in Odelstinget was – naturally – Anna Rogstad. It happened on 26 June 1911, and the tax law of 1911 was on the agenda. In view of today's effective closure of the debates in Odelstinget, it is worth noting that the debate on the tax law went over almost a month, taking up 660 pages in the negotiations. Rogstad had several articles in the debate. They were concerned with non-discrimination between men and women in tax matters, and she was also impressed by some amendments. It took a long time for the women to take their place in Odelsting's management. In total, we have had four female odelsting presidents: Åshild Hauan, Inger Lise Gjørv, Ågot Valle and Berit Brørby. Women Vice Presidents: Aase Lionæs, Jorunn Ringstad and Berit Brørby. Finally, the new legislative procedure ensures that the Stortinget will continue to have a thorough decision-making process before new laws are adopted. The procedure is largely based on the one we have had — with a multi-stakeholder legal process, but the process becomes less complicated. At the same time, all representatives – not just members of the Odelstinget – are finally given the opportunity to promote independent legislative proposals for the Stortinget. All representatives are also given the opportunity to participate in what has traditionally evolved into the main debate on the issue of the law, namely the first reading of the case. It has been said that laws are the highest expression of state will next under the Constitution. This means that the State is required to follow a more circumstantial procedure before citizens can be imposed on obligations, serves as a security against arbitrary or ill-considered decisions. The adoption of laws in a particularly thorough way in Stortinget is a sign that Norway is a state governed by law and that citizens have certain guarantees of legal certainty. We might be able to make a little reference to it about. 1 000-year-old Frostingsgesetz at such a time: By law, the land will be built and not be destroyed by illegal means. That's what the Constitution requires Stortingen to provide. After 195 years we have to be able to say: by law we have built the country, and by law the country will continue to be built – even without bulging and laying. I thank you for the cooperation, for the debates, for the assistance of the Vice-Presidents and the Vice-Presidents to implement the meetings – and to all of you: Thank you, for a good collegial tone. I declare the last odelsting of history before the end. [[Standing applause in the Chamber]] Does anyone ask for the word before this meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
