ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e22	As the representatives have seen, today the Afghan flag is outside the big business. This is because the President of the National Assembly of Afghanistan is on official visit to Norway. We welcome President Qanooni and hope that he will have a good visit here in the country. [[Applause from the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e28	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Sven Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Svein Roald Hansen are unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e35	On behalf of Bent Höie, Gunnar Gunnersen, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Olemic Thommessen, André Oktay Dahl and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on strengthened rights for children, young people and adults with communication difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e40	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e43	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Robert Eriksson and myself, I would like to propose a plan for a worthy and comprehensive care for the disabled, with a focus on the individual – consisting of 54 proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e48	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e71	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – Heidi Grande Røys – Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Inge Wohnning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e86	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. This government has made Norway a record of spending money in most areas, including health, and especially in the hospital area. At the same time, for some years, the Workers' Party had a slogan that said, ‘It’s the results that count.’ It’s a very good slogan – it’s the results that count. The results so far after four years are that the health queue has increased only from the first quarter of 2006 so that today we have 265,000 queues – the 65 000 are in the last two years. The waiting time for treatment increases and for several patient groups it increases significantly. As late as today, the Official Journal of Bergen has a large notice of a rather dramatic increase in the Health West. Health business deficits have increased. So they're going to add up to $24 billion. At the same time, we are constantly getting messages from patients who experience that the only way they can get health care at all is to pay for themselves, because then you get outside the queues. Rogalands Avis told me on March 28 about a woman who had to borrow $188,000 to pay for surgery in a private hospital to get allowed to work again and make the effort she wants in society. In Hurdal there is a woman, Liv Marit Tangen, who was told, after she had worn out heart fibrillation problems for nearly ten years, that it had no purpose to stand up on the waiting list because the waiting time would be more than three years at the Rikshospitale. On the principle that there are results that count, is the Minister of Health satisfied with what his government has been able to achieve in the field of health in four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e97	Satisfied no, but it is a fact that so many Norwegian patients have never received as good health care as this year. If you measure it in relation to how many patients there are getting help, if they are satisfied with the help, and if the statements after they have been treated are filled with satisfaction, I am satisfied – in the sense that we are helping more and more people to get good help. But I'm not satisfied in the sense that there's still a way to go. That's why we're working on major health reforms. That is why we are constantly moving towards further developing the health service. I have noticed that the Right answer to all these questions is private solutions. The last time I met the payroll in the hall, there were atrial fibrillation, i.e. heart fibrillation, which was the big thing and the question of using e.g. The celebration clinic to solve that problem. I've gone positive into this and looked at that possibility. The situation is that in Norway the professional environment is linked to atrial fibrillation very small. Here in Oslo, for example. two games that can treat atrial fibrillation. Then the solution to the problem is not to move one of the doctors out to the Celebrating Clinic. All you do is you're probably going to get a million more dollars in salary. The problem of waiting times, waiting queues, when it comes to access terminals, is not a lack of private offerings, but that we are not able to apply new public health care procedures, so that we can build up capacity. Moving doctors from public health to private health services does not solve any problems. It only leads to greater costs. Therefore, the interaction reform is the answer to many of the challenges that wages are facing, not privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e106	I am pleased that the Council of State has corrected the loss he made during the interpellation debate on the Feiring Clinic, where he was injured to misinform the Storting. That he has fixed it is very good. Based on the principle that there are results that count, there must be a cross-thinking for the Council of State that under this government the purchase of private health insurance has increased by 130 p.m., and that the only way people can get out of the hopelessly long waiting periods is to borrow, if they're not so well-informed that they have a solid private economy. We have historically never been closer to a classed health system than we are after four years with a red-green government. Is this a result with which the Council of State is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e113	I believe that there is a very wrong representation of the Norwegian health service. I think that any international expert who had looked at the Norwegian health system would have said that there is one thing that does not characterize it, and that is that it is classed. So the Right now gets to live in its own reality. But once again, I take the Right proposal seriously and see if the solution model is the right one. The last time the pay was in The Storting and told how to solve the health care crises, it was about privatising the treatment of atrocities. It doesn't solve anything. The problem is not lack of resources or lack of private offerings. The problem is lack of professionals. There will be no more people being treated for atrial fibrillation if one of the two doctors at the Rikshospitale move over to a private hospital. There's an equal number of patients being treated. All you've done is you've doubled the investment costs of an advanced medical device. It illustrates that the Right Medicine is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e120	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e124	The right has proposed better quality assurance of the Norwegian health care system. We have proposed a significant bet on rehabilitation to stop turning door spaces. We have proposed better national governance through new governance methods. We have suggested that we have more health care where people live. Governments have dropped a sample. It is so far his contribution to the further development of the Norwegian health system. At the same time, there has been an increase from 40,000 to almost 100,000 people who have taken out private health insurance. All the private health institutions tell about more and more people who pay out of their own pockets. Last week, Rogaland's newspaper told about a lady who had spent NOK 138 000 after four years of search. She wanted to get back to work, and the health service couldn't help her. Then I expect more factuality from the Council of State to answer as to why he does not use the available capacity to cut the queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e131	There is a wrong analysis of the health care challenge. It is not that health care challenges are solved by starting to work in private hospitals with doctors who are currently working in public hospitals. The major problem for the Norwegian health care system is that we, for example: In 2007, 550 000 laydays in Norwegian hospitals were used to treat patients who could have received treatment in the community health service. It is building up the community health service, dealing with the interaction reform, which will be presented as a proposal in June, and implementing it, which is the solution to the challenges in Health-Norway. It's not that when the kidneys have failed in a diabetic, the solution to the challenge is to choose which hospital he's going to have dialysis; it's to provide a health care system that doesn't lead to kidney failure. There is a wrong analysis that underlies the Right Health Policy, and it is not corrected by the party leader trying to produce it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e138	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e141	I don't think we're going to throw the different analyses back and forth in this room and say there's the exact science and the exact truth. What is a fact is that there are many people in line waiting for treatment. Then it is our job, and also the task of the Council of State, to ensure that as many as possible are treated in the Norwegian healthcare system. That is, we must have a capacity that is in line with the need out there, not that we boast that never before has so and so many have received treatment. That should be in line with the need that is out there. It is a fact that over 265,000 people are in line. It is a fact that when, for example, within the Health East area, letters in connection with radiological investigations are often stated in the letter that, due to the very few agreements, it takes three months before you get an hour, but if you pay it yourself, you can have an hour tomorrow. It's a classroom health care service, where those who have money get help. What will the Council of State do in this regard?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e148	I very much agree with Harald Tom Nesvik that we must have a capacity in relation to the need. What's the need? In 2007, we had 550 000 lay days in Norwegian hospitals. Every seven lying days, patients who were strictly not in need of hospital treatment agreed to be treated. They were in a hospital because the local health service was not present. Then is the answer to the challenges of Health in Norway to build up the community health service. The need will be even greater in the future because age will become such that the types of patients that are unnecessary in hospitals will be more of them. With mental health protection, it's the same thing. It is no wonder that there is a cry for treatment places, beds, in mental health protection, as long as we have a non-existent municipal health protection. The answer to the challenges of mental health protection is to build up municipal health protection. That is what this government is now betting on, and it will already be shown in the budget for next year a path towards building up the municipal health service. The hospital crisis must be resolved outside the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e157	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e160	We woke up yesterday to the news that the elderly are being laid at 1 p.m. 14 in a nursing home, and elsewhere we hear about patients closest in line to get out of the dungeon in the morning. The treated elderly are in hospital because there are cows to fit in the hospital. But not only the queues are growing, but also the need for more staff in hospital homes is obvious. Yesterday, the Minister of Health said to TV 2 that they have provided 12 000 new employees in the care sector. It's probably right – there's a little discussion about how many people actually got – but these haven't come to our hospitals. So my question to the Council of State is, how will the Minister of Health ensure that we get more employees in the hospital homes, so that patients get up in the morning and don't lie in line, and don't stay in bed from the clock. 14 to the next morning?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e165	Let me take the last one first: that someone, as it's said, is now starting to spend older hours. 14 in the afternoon, and that they must lie down the next day, I believe that there is nothing to do with appropriations for the local government sector. Every municipality can afford to have a better offer for the elderly than that. It is a matter of priority, and it is unacceptable if there are municipalities that do. There is a breach of the quality regulation, and the Health Authority should definitely go into these kinds of cases and charge the municipalities that do such things. It is unacceptable, and it has nothing to do with the number of people employed in the care sector. I believe that every municipality must see: what is most important first? To carry out municipal priorities in such a way that you start laying down the older hours. 14 in the afternoon, we don't find ourselves in. It is not correct, it is a breach of the quality regulation, and it should be strictly charged by the Health Authority if it so decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e170	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e173	Health cows do not consist at least of a weak patient group, and there is no doubt about numbers here: 4,000 drug users are in line for treatment today, and the addicts are not the group that shout the highest. Although the Minister of Health has said that intoxication is a field of activity, he has accepted that a new drug post with ten places for young adults under construction in Healthy Förde, which is finished in September of this year, will not be used this year. Recruitment of staff to the new drug post takes at least six months. If a clear signal is not given quite soon before a start date, the drug-use mail due in September will not start up until long, well out in 2010. So my question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State guarantee that the new drug post under construction at Nordfjordeid in Health Förde will start early in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e178	I agree that the drug field is one of the areas where we've come short, and I think we can quickly agree that none of us can beat our chests and say that we've really cleaned up the drug industry. There we still have major challenges, that is precisely why we are systematically focusing on the drugs sector, and I think that is a great deal of political agreement on that. We've got a rush plan. We are using more and more resources to get good capacity in the drug sector in Norway, so the government has also stepped up its efforts in the drugs field every year. Now we're 685 million. kr above the level we were at when we started the rolling stock. This summer we get Rusakutten in Oslo, we've now put in $30 million. kr in Oslo through the Church's City Mission to improve the offer to the weakest. Then there is more, and therefore there will be further escalation in the roadmap in 2010, and then we agree that we will jointly create a new drug plan for the coming years. So the rush field is put on it, and there is a need for it, because the gaps are big.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e186	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e189	I see that the council stays standing, and he probably does it right in!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e194	I took the chance to stand here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e199	In the last half of the year at Stortinget, in a number of different question hours and different cases, I have had the impression that the answer from the Council of State has been: the answer is interaction, what was the question? I also think that within a number of fields the Council of State is in on something, and that it's a way to go, and we have a lot to pick up. But then you start to look at the work that's going on, and we start to trick, a lot of us: what's going to happen? And not least, when will it come? Last week you could read in Kommunal Report that you want to take from the hospitals and give to the municipalities, you talk about up to NOK 20 billion, you talk about intercommunal companies, and you refer to Denmark. Denmark has a municipal structure of 55 000 inhabitants per year. municipality, and I look forward to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa starting to coerce Norwegian municipalities – that will be interesting. But what's going to be the main challenge here is, when are you going to know what is going to be the content of the reform? In these days, the state secretarial apparatus travels around and tells the regional health businesses what to do, we read that the Municipal Report has been invited to the office of the Minister for Health together with the Minister for Municipal Affairs. The only ones that don't seem to get any information are we in this house. It is this house that in its time is actually going to make decisions, and the Council of State itself has said that perhaps already in the budget for next year you will see some effects of this. I have the following two questions to the Council of State: Is it correct that the Council of State plans to present this matter as a communication on 26 June, as it has been claimed? Is that correct? Question 2: Will the Council of State take an initiative to come to the Storting and give a provisional explanation of what this work actually contains? For this is a difficult reform, one that takes a long time to prepare for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e208	What is correct is that there will be a big message in June on the cooperation reform. And what Harald Tom Nesvik is also right in, is that in working on this message, we have led a very open process. We've always made visible what we're thinking, and we've been discussing with Health-Norway, everything from user organisations to employee organisations, what's their input into a sensible interaction reform. We listen and learn, and we discuss with the whole of Health Norway. And then we're going to sum that up. We're now in a phase where we're about to end this round. We're driving and summarizing, and we're driving and concluding. The conclusions will be far on the way during April, and then we will present it to the Stortinget in June. Then I see that it is of course challenging in the sense that the Storting is unable to deal with this before the summer. No – but the Stortinget lives after the summer too, so that when the Stortinget gathers for the autumn, you will be able to get rid of this message. If the choice results in a change of government, the new government will have to decide whether to leave the message in the Storting. So the government will clarify its policy in the form of a big message, which will be relatively concrete in a number of areas on what the government wants to make of changes in Health Norway over the next four years. I believe that it must be an advantage for the government to clarify its policy before the elections. It could have been interesting if the opposition did the same – what is the alternative to the policy that the Government stands for? But that's not my job to get done, it's probably more Nesvik's job to get done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e217	That's what you want. That's why you ask the matter to come earlier, so that the Storting actually knows what it's about. That's also why I ask the Council of State to come to Stortinget and at least give an explanation of what we can expect in the way of making this structural change. Because this is a big change. It is profound in terms of the possibility for hospitals to plan, the municipalities to build up an apparatus against this, intercommunal company – a variety of things. That's why I challenge the Council of State once again on my two questions – because the moment of presentation is also very important, since the Grand Duchy separates on 19 June: Is the plan for the Council of State to submit the communication on 26 June? And will the Council of State come to the Storting and give a preliminary account of what we can expect? For the Committee of Experts of the Minister of Health, they should now be done with their work – at least after what has been announced in the past. And: The Council of State has itself been responsible for the implementation of the Nav reform in the period 2005-2008. We've seen it fall apart in a lot of areas. What will the Council of State do differently to better succeed in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e224	We're working as hard as we can just write this message. And we'll put it forward as soon as it's done. We don't need to finish it, and then we don't have to give it up. The point is that we believe what we're presenting, and we want to get it out as quickly as possible. I am very pleased that Nesvik has taken on board that what we are doing is a major change in Health Norway. And that's exactly what Health-Norway needs: not more private alternatives, but major structural reform changes. If we can get done before June 26th, we'll put it forward before June 26th. When I now say that we will come to Stortinget with a message in June, it seems strange to me that we will come and explain before that time. After all, we want to present comprehensive policy in the Single European Act. And then all political Norway will have access to the notification and the Government's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e233	There will be follow-up questions – Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e236	Yes, many people are waiting for the interaction reform, and while waiting for it, some things are happening out in Health-Norway. It is said that intermediate departments are something to be invested in in the future. Palliative care in municipalities is something to be invested in in the future. The same applies to diabetes teams, who are to serve the municipalities, and to dialysis at the local level. All these things have been cut in Eastfold in the last year. The intermediate department, which had been up for three years, was unfortunately closed down. The diabetes team had to cut significantly, and they were to serve the municipalities during the last year. In the case of the palliative branch in Ashim, it is now estimated to cut in places. Dialysis treatment should now be considered back to the hospital as per the press. Some signals are given that are in conflict with the planning available. Has the Council of State now become so concerned with the paper version that he cannot steer Health Norway in the right direction at the same time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e245	This illustrates the need for the interaction reform. We see that there are a lot of sensible measures that should have been implemented and that are being tested in Health-Norway, but then you don't get it because it's in conflict with the system. These departments, which come between levels, are trying to establish through good local resources, where the local health business and the municipalities are trying to set up. But then there's always a discussion about who's going to take the bill, who's going to be responsible for hiring staff, and how it's going to be organized. That's what we have to clean up. Today we have a Health Norway that is wise against the system. We have to get the system in line with what's wise. That is why we need a reform. I think the examples of Giltun's representative are an illustration of why we need to make major structural changes, in order for good patient care to be economically viable and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e252	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e256	After all, it is to the extent that he promises that the Stortinget – at the end of the day – will get to know the rest of the country through active marketing. But it's a little bit of a time. I interpret the Council's response so that 26 June is a well-founded assumption, i.e. just one week after the Storting broke up. This government has been sitting for four years. Interaction was investigated when the Government joined. So you've spent four years getting there, and then you don't want to put anything forward for this big thing at all. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is a very versatile politician. He has had a lot of nicknames in the course of time – well deserved – but I am afraid that the name that can stick to him is "Selection Hanssen". And that's probably not what he'll be most happy about. For the point so far with what he has done, is to stay both the Storting and the users talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e265	If it is true in the words “Dear child has many names, ” you must live with many names! So I think that's going well. No, interaction challenges in health care are not new. That's why I'm very happy and proud to be part of a government and be the Council of State in a department where we're now really coming up with a big message that structurally takes care of it. Interaction problems in the healthcare system had also occurred in the previous four-year period, but in that case, the right representatives of the government and the double-tits did not do anything structural about it. It has taken time for us to bring this message. But we're coming with it -- unlike what you did in the last four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e272	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e275	Governments have created high expectations for a health reform aimed at providing a strengthened community health service, which is intended to provide a more comprehensive range of services, and which should be more sensible in the interaction between hospitals, permanent doctors and community health services for the rest. The Christian People's Party will have such a reform and make high demands for such a reform, for now is the time to exonerate, and the time for action has come. We would like to focus a little on the content of the reform, because there have been signals that resources will be transferred to the municipalities – that is necessary, because there is a great need for competence in the municipalities. But there is also a need for inter-municipal cooperation. It is unclear to us how the Government has intended this, and my specific question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State believe that it is possible to implement the interaction reform that is coming soon, with the municipal structure that is in place today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e282	The answer to that question is yes, I believe so. But it's quite obvious that we're going to build a community health service that can't be found in every municipality in the country. To that it becomes too extensive. Therefore, the smallest municipalities will have to cooperate with neighbouring municipalities on how to provide the new services. In a number of large municipalities in Norway, the new municipal health service will be able to be implemented on its own. But it's quite obvious that, for example, in my own home district, which I believe the representative of Tørresdal knows – Inner Namdal – where there are many small municipalities, you have to get a municipal cooperation to build up the municipal health service that is described in the interaction reform when it comes. But it has long traditions. I think that is possible, and therefore I think it is possible to implement the reform with today's municipal structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e287	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e290	When it comes to the interaction reform, at least I can tell the Council of State that the Left supports it. We have. But what we know is that if we're going to move more treatment to the primary site, we need a change in funding. We also need a changed municipal structure – I think so. I know that the Council of State has been in Denmark and beggars to Danish solutions and interaction there between primary and specialist hospitals. They've led over 10 pst. of the specialised health costs of the municipalities. In Norway, the Council of State is probably talking about 20 p.m. But if you don't have a changed municipal structure and think about intermunicipal companies, there'll be some quasi-models, I think. So I would like to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State think about the interaction reform and should lead to the municipal structure in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e297	I do feel that I answered that question when I answered the question from the representative Tørresdal, that – and that will be, as things look now, the government policy – we aim to present an interaction reform that we believe will be possible to implement by the smaller municipalities cooperating on the tasks they individually are too small to solve. This means that very much healthcare will continue to be in municipalities, i.e. the health home, care services, etc. But then, if you look at decentralised teams in psychiatry, decentralised teams in the field of drugs, the construction of local medical centres, district medical centers, it's clear that the smallest municipalities in Norway alone will be too small. Then you have to cooperate. We see that Kommune-Norge seizes those possibilities now. There are a lot of applications within the Ministry of Health and Welfare to carry out trials – Mid-Telemark, Dalane, etc. So Kommune-Norge is doing a great job establishing cooperation patterns, and I believe that as a good model.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e304	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e307	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The Minister of Oil and Energy has repeatedly said on this speech that Enova is the Government’s main tool in the renewable effort. It is good to have such a tool when you have had three oil and energy ministers and three different renewable energy support systems over the three years of the government. Worse still, the most important tool, Enova, does not function in relation to wind power development. Let me quote the statements of the CEO of Enova, Nils Kristian Nakstad, on TV 2 last Monday: ‘We feel that the industry has been the subject of somewhat unpredictable framework conditions After 2010, there is no money on wind power in Norway. [[...]] It is unforeseeable for the industry, and we think it must be natural to clarify it quite quickly." Governments are aware of their response to TV 2 on annual budgeting and that the Government has started a step up in the field of renewables. But there's a connection between support system and expansion. And when we haven't managed to build a single windmill under this government with today's support system, it tells me that we have a system that doesn't work. I think you have to have a seat in the red-green government so you don't get it. So my question is: When will the government start listening – listen to the wind power builders, who are dissatisfied, listen to the opposition, who are impatient, and listen to Enova, the government's main tool in the context of the renewable effort, which needs predictability? When do you start the listening process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e325	I don't see any great need to listen to an opposition that sailed little on renewable energy when it was in government. I think it's a point to listen to the wind power industry, which has just mentioned predictability as an important area. It's easy to see that we've had ambitions about different regimes in this period that there's been changes, which has made the industry just want it. Now we're spending a lot more money in the field of renewable energy, and we know that new rounds are going to be published this year in terms of wind power. That means we're now adding a race for the wind industry that's better and more predictable than it's been in the past. When it comes to the question of new objectives, I have to say that if there is one time it would be quite special to set new objectives for the wind, it is right now. We now have the largest renewable energy project ever in Europe under debate. We are in the middle of a discussion on how to implement Norwegian adaptations to the EU renewable directive. We are going to make an action plan to meet the commitments we are going to conclude with the European Commission and the EU countries. Going out now and in a way short-circuiting that process will be completely meaningless. I am concerned that we should have predictability, we should have an offensive policy on wind, but now there is a job that needs to be done first. It is to define the adaptation, implementation and practice of the EU's renewable directive, and then we will have to go in and discuss the implementation in the individual areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e335	The Council of State says he will have predictability, that he will take the criticism from the wind generators that there has been no predictability in this area. But then I have to ask the Council of State: What predictability do you now promise the wind power builders? You point to the EU's renewable directive, an important directive, which I hope we will be introduced in Norway as soon as possible. But it becomes too easy to hide behind this when Enova now says they need predictability for 2010. They need to know what they will be guided by, what framework conditions and support systems they will provide to wind power builders in the dialogues they have. What is the response to the Council of State in terms of framework conditions and support systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e340	I believe that what is easy is what the representative Holten Hemdal is now presenting here in Stortinget, when she believes that we should go into and set concrete objectives in an area before we have run the process of implementing the EU's renewable directive. It's a tough thing. It will have a major impact on the concrete implementation of the renewable energy effort in Norway over the next 10, 12, 15 years. Going in now and taking out parts of it because it might be opportunistic, I believe it is completely wrong. I think it's a pretty straightforward entry point. As far as predictability is concerned in relation to what is now happening in the field of wind power, we have increased the scope of Enova yamt and thought, from the far too low level it was on when the bourgeois parties crashed in this country. That means there is more money available. We have said that the wind industry has a new opportunity to produce good projects in May. There's more money in the pot when they're going to be executed. It is a predictability that is also reported to the industry now through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e347	There will be follow-up questions – Dagfinn Høybråten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e350	The red-greens took power with the slogan: we have a majority, we don't have to negotiate, we can just act. Now we've had two state councils in this questionnaire whose party has been in the departments they run, for almost four years. This has happened very little, but at the end of the period, both government councils are going out with big views, which are going to be carried out in the next period, when, hopefully, you do not have a majority. Understand who it is who wills! What's the situation, is that the centre party is now going out with big wind in the sails; I'll say it must be the blue breeze, because there's no connection between what they're now promising, and what they've actually done. As late as February, I asked the Council of State if he was going to bet on a state company for wind power. To that he replied that he had currently no plans. But now I read in the paper that at the Central Party's national meeting this has become a hub – and perhaps the Center Party also needed – in the wind power plant, that the Council of State in February didn't see any reason to investigate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e357	I believe that the representative here is completely wrong. While the representative of the Højbrätten government delivered 1.2 TWh per. year in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, this government delivers over 2 TWh. So this government is delivering twice as much in terms of climate challenges, renewable energy and energy efficiency as the government of which the High Seas was part. Then I think it's relatively special to come to this hall and say that what this government is doing is nothing, when you have a very specific reference point to deal with, which is half of what is now being delivered. I believe that we are now on the right track in getting the renewable energy ahead. I think we are on the right track in terms of energy efficiency improvement. I believe we are on the right track in addressing the climate challenges that we are now seeing around us. Then it is quite correct that the Central Party's national meeting has made a decision to establish a company, State Wind. Now, we're supposed to be based on that national meeting decision in the process against Soria Moria II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e366	There's little reason to be impressed by the red-green government's alleged commitment to renewable energy so far. There has been a lot of talk, but very little action from the red-green side on the renewables. This is not good. We have the largest wind power resources in Norway across Europe, Norway has the largest reservoirs of hydropower in Western Europe, and our country has enormous untapped potential for bioenergy. Nevertheless, so far very little has happened in the last years within the renewable area of the country if we compare ourselves with, for example. Sweden or Finland, and that is not good at all. Nor is it just wind power generation that lacks good enough framework conditions in this country. Recently, we saw figures from the NVE that showed that the development of small-scale power plants has almost stopped completely in Norway. Then my question becomes: can the Council of State be clear that he will now work to include small-scale power plants in a future green certificate market with Sweden to improve the framework conditions for this part of the renewable area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e373	With regard to the negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate market, where I believe it is very important to succeed in finding a solution, I am also concerned about the place of small power plants in it. So I think the representative understands that in the more concrete negotiations that are going on, it is not natural to have a public debate about it. But that a green certificate market will be an important contribution to renewable energy in Norway and getting up and running a new production, I fully agree. Therefore, there is also one of the things that I now spend a lot of time on. We've had meetings about it – it's been a short time since the last meeting – and I'm going to have a lot of pressure on that matter beyond spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e378	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e381	What characterises the Ministry of Oil and Energy is that there have been more government changes than there have been windmills built. We have Europe's very best opportunity to expand, with the considerable wind power resources available. It's not going to be done. This is due, inter alia, to: that Jens Stoltenberg and this government have torpedoed green certificates. This is because the climate agreement has not been followed up to put in place a new and better support system. This is due, inter alia, to: the process time increases, mostly in the whole of the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the NVE etc., in relation to renewable energy. Now is the time for action. We've had enough talk. Even Enova doesn't know what the support system is like, and how much money they have to deal with next year. The industry is screaming for predictability, after a long-term, good support system. When is the State Council planning to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e390	As I have answered another question earlier here in the Question Time, I believe that the most important thing that is happening in relation to the long-term discussion of the major framework for renewables in Norway and Europe is going to take place around the debate on the renewables directive and its implementation. It's a demanding process, also professional. However, in relation to what is happening in Norway now, I believe that the use of investment aid, as we have done – and we are now spending a lot more money on it, also on potential projects on the wind power side – provides opportunities for wind power producers to realise projects. Now that we've gone in this year with extra money, an extra call-out round, it's precisely because my ambition and the Government's ambition is to get the good wind power projects going. Then we see that there has been a huge increase in costs within the projects over the last few years. Then we also see that there have been challenges related to capital as a result of what is happening around us now. But now that we spend so much more money into Enova's budgets and into the prohibition effort, it also means predictability and investment in relation to the wind power industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e395	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e399	It is interesting to hear that when the Council of State gets justified criticism of the lack of commitment to renewable energy production, it refers to things he and the Government were really against. Reference is made to the expectations of a green certificate market together with Sweden, which the Government does not want, but which came into place in the climate agreement. One indicates that a marine strategy for offshore energy production is to be established – a scheme originally agreed in the Stortinget, but was included in the climate agreement. And then it refers to the renewable directive to the EU. It is part of the story that the Minister of Oil and Energy was the last energy politician in Norway who said that someone wants to join this. There have been pressures both from the opposition and from their own ranks. My question is: When will the Council deliver what is in the climate agreement, as well a framework for renewable energy production as green certificates would have been?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e406	We have chosen to use investment aid as an alternative to what the representative addresses. I believe that with the increase we are now seeing in the use of investment aid on the Enova framework, that is a good alternative to what we are working on further. If the representative of Kvassheim is concerned that I'm going to tell you more about what we've done, this is a very good opportunity for me to do it, because I'm proud that we are now able – in three years – to deliver 6 TWh in the renewables and energy efficiency. I'm not sure if the representative Kvassheim is equally proud of an average of 1.2 TWh per. years, for which the representative Kvassheim was responsible when he was part of the civil government in the previous period. I find it strange that the representative Kvassheim is so offensive in the Stortinget and criticises a government that delivers twice as much renewable energy, energy efficiency and climate action as he did when he was part of the bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e413	Then we go to the next main question. Gunnar Kvassheim can be standing...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e416	...and so can the Council of State. It was an interesting idea to follow the Central Party national meeting. During periods, it appeared to be a Norway championship in double communication. The country meeting took decisions in areas that the party has voted against in Stortinget, and it was a single play that was neutralised and zeroed out of party leadership. One of the areas that one wonders about is the newest position on prohibitive energy policy – if it were to be put in place, now it would take advantage of the opportunities. So this is in an area where there has been a standstill for three and a half years and a public offensive has been called for. Here, there are great and unique opportunities that have been met with a poorly adapted support system. It is right that more money is spent, but it is set aside for systems that do not trigger new prohibitive energy production. And there's a bad government there. In the numbers referred to here, you take one with heat and energy efficiency. In fact, in the case of wind power and small-scale power, developments are going in the wrong direction. It is a coherent industry engaged in, and is strongly critical of the Government's arrangements. What happened at the Central Party’s national meeting was, in effect, a framework criticism of the government’s lack of results in terms of renewable energy policy. And worse than that: it was a ramsalt criticism of three leading central party people who have been sitting and running the Oil and Energy Department during the period of this. But what we understand, after listening to the round that has been going on today, is that the visions and promises given at the Central Party's national meeting have nothing to do with the Government's energy policy and the Government's energy ambitions; it's a scheme for what the Center Party wants to fight for in opposition after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e427	I totally disagree with the analysis, the allegations and the opinion of the representative Kvassheim. Firstly, as I said in my previous answer, using the term ‘standby’ in this area is wrong. And the representative Kvassheim will see that there will be extra mistakes if he takes the time to compare what he has been responsible for as part of the previous government. I think it is very alarming to use this kind of statement about a bet that represents the double of the representative of Kvassheim Sjögl. With regard to the involvement at the Central Party national meeting, I believe that there was a very good line in it in relation to the escalation in the renewable sector that the Government is now facing. We have stepped up year by year in our government period. The national meeting of the Central Party wants to step up more in the coming period, and the national meeting's message to the party management is that it is an important area for party management to take part in government work in the next period. Otherwise, when it comes to double communication and national meetings, I think maybe the representative Kvassheim has a little more experience with it in relation to different types of country meetings than what I have. But I think in concrete terms that the national meeting we were part of was an extremely forward-looking national meeting, because it was dedicated to transforming into the green economy, creating green jobs and building on the work that the Government has now begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e436	The problem with this national meeting is that it was four years late. That's what the government should have worked with from day one. They've got a lot of recordings in Stortinget that could help to get a broad consensus on such an offensive. It's right that it's set of more money, but the option to the previous government with support for Enova and green certificates would give more money, and what's even more important: better results. The wind industry and the small power industry judge this government's efforts north and down, and indicate that the previous government provided better adapted solutions. So now the Center Party has come up with a new interesting idea. What seems to be shortcomings in renewable energy policy are several state-owned companies. It is therefore in a situation in which Statekraft says that they are paying for renewable energy projects abroad, because the support system in Norway is too poor. Does the Council agree that what we lack is better framework conditions, not more State actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e445	The representative Inge Wohnning said earlier today that there are results that count. So do I. That is precisely why I am still equally surprised at the high sound level and the great commitment of the representative Kvassheim, considering what results he can refer to. I still think it's just as special just to jump over what you've contributed to, and to be the Supreme Judge of what another government has done, which has obviously delivered at a completely different level than what the representative has been on. It does not serve a Norwegian political debate to have as random a fact in an important area as renewable energy in relation to the future climate work. When the representative believes that the Central Party's national meeting was four years late, which I have said is completely disagreeable with, I must say that the commitment to the Left is at least obviously four years late, compared to when they sailed into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e450	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e453	This is going to be pitiful, freckle. The councils have one single answer: we spend more money, and we do more than the previous government. Yes, since the previous government has increased tax revenue by NOK 250 billion. It should just be missing that you don't spend any more money! Since 2005, technological developments in renewable energy and oil price developments have created completely different framework conditions. You can't compare with the history books. You can compare with present time, and see what you get in other countries. Unfortunately, investors in green power are too low in Norway because they do not have market income in sight that is good enough. These are market revenues, for example: through a new licence regime, which those investors want. I remember that the head of Riis-Johansen, Prime Minister Stoltenberg, stood here and parked the green tax regime because it became too expensive on an ordinary basis. The problem was that he had miscalculated. He had used ten times too much on the effects. Do the state councils repent? Or would the Council of State wish that the Government had taken hold of what had been the sustainable, redeeming solution already three years ago? Then he wasn't the Council of State for this, so he must be allowed to do something for himself... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e458	In relation to the process that went around green certificates last, there was a natural end to the process as a result of where the case was then. Then we have taken the initiative to re-open the negotiations. I think we have good processes with Sweden now. But as I said earlier in this room, I think you should be honest with me that it is demanding to combine two different energy markets with different energy carriers into the market. It's also part of the job that we're now up to. My ambition is to get this round of negotiations in place. That would be very good. Otherwise, I completely disagree with the representative Sponheim when he believes that seeing what the previous government did is ‘wretched’. I think it is entirely relevant to compare the priorities of the budgets. In other respects, the representative Sponheim has boasted very much of the tax reliefs that the previous government carried out. It is obvious that there is a priority made by the previous government — that it was more important than investing in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e465	Take responsibility, you!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e471	Torbjørn Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e474	The representative Gunnar Kvassheim pointed to what the Council of State had said at the Central Party's national meeting in Ålesund recently. I noticed some of those statements with the greatest interest. Among other things, he said: the Council of State that it may be interesting to transfer concession powers to the NVE regional authorities today. It is in so far as the Progress Party has proposed for many years to decentralise the concession authorities for micro, mini and small power plants up to a certain size. We know that the time for concessional treatment is often four to five years in terms of this type of power plant. To create maybe a new give and debureaucratize this by getting permission to build micro, mini and small power plants, I think it's important to get a decentralization. Just that I noticed that the Council of State was at the national meeting. Can we now expect a rapid initiative from the Council of State to create a decentralised concession treatment for micro, mini and small power plants in this country? I'm waiting for answers with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e479	I could give you that answer, and it could be short. I can answer it nicely, because it's already done. I have been informed by Stortinget in the past that the concession treatment of the smallest applications has been transferred to the county municipalities, with NVE as a case manager at the regional offices. So that's a positive answer, and it's already done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e484	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e487	I had believed that the Council of State would have had a greater degree of propriety. Here's a unanimous big deal that's determined that green certificates are the best solution for getting more renewable energy. It is this government that trains that work and has previously shot down the same proposal. This government is responsible. It's this red-green government policy that doesn't work. There are problems that arise in the sector by sector, for which the Council of State is responsible. And it is quite right as it was pointed out: Small-power builders are now told that they will not receive their applications before 2011 at the earliest. The problem is that the government looks backwards, continuously. You hide behind giving more money, but you don't change the policy in the right direction. Norwegian companies invest abroad and not in Norway. We have a huge growth in renewable energy in the United Kingdom, in Portugal and in Sweden. Does the Council acknowledge that he is a member of a government that is unable to deliver new renewable energy in Norway when this field is growing violently in the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e492	I understand that representatives of the bourgeois parties that had government power last are frustrated at being reminded of what happened then. But it is clear that with the statements that come in the Storting today, about what is done and not done, it is not to avoid that there must be any comparisons. And then it is processing capacity and NVE that are now being brought forward by the representative of Skovholt Gitmark. Now we've doubled the resource usage to NVE. NVE employs case handlers, who they did not have the opportunity to hire during the previous ageing period. We have delegated the decision-making authority for the smallest cases to the county council with a regional NVE system as case manager, as the previous government did not. We do something in relation to processing capacity that was not done. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark should deal with this in the same way as the representative says that the policy does not work: well, it actually works so well that we deliver twice as much in this area as the representatives of the government of Skovholt Gitmark were able to deliver in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e499	The councils are beating their chests and saying we're on the right track. We are on the right track today when we are told that StatoilHydro and Statkraft are joining forces on a sea wind farm outside the United Kingdom – with a production of 1.1 TWh to supply 220 000 households. Why do they do that? Yes, because the framework conditions are too bad in Norway. In the first place, the Council of State has a list, probably over 2008. It says last year we had a production of 1.1 TWh wind power in Norway. It's the results that count. The Council of State is responsible for that result. Is the Council of State in this picture satisfied with the fact that our industrialists rate abroad, and that we are able to produce only 1.1 TWh in Norway. Is that a result the Council of State is satisfied with for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e506	Now that we spend more money in 2009 than in 2008, it's of course because we want to achieve more than what we achieved last year and in the years before that. So I want more for wind power. Otherwise, I've been waiting with interest for how long it was going to go before the question of StatoilHydro's involvement in England came up, because that seems to me to be an interesting test of the commitment to renewable energy. I perceive that Holten Heimdal defines as negative what State Power and StatoilHydro do today. I totally disagree. I think it is brilliant that Norway's largest company, an oil and gas company, today is taking steps into the renewable energy world and spending DKK 5 billion together with Europe's largest renewable energy company, to expand for renewable energy production in Europe, and also to increase the level of competence, which in turn will enable them to become large on Norwegian soil when we are also going to participate in the offshore adventure in terms of wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e513	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e518	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Minister for Finance, has been withdrawn. Question 7, by Knut Arild Hareide, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, respectively, to the Minister of Justice, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 2, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Question 13, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Knowledge, lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e537	From the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Minister for Finance: ‘Heartdal Red Cross in Telemark is one of many voluntary teams affected by today’s VAT regulations, a regulation Freedom Norway considers to be a ‘tax on voluntary activity’. For example, the rules impose the extra costs of buying snowmobiles on the Red Cross. Will the Council of State ensure that voluntary teams and organisations avoid this tax burden in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e545	This question has been withdrawn. We're going to go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e553	I would like to welcome the State Council of Storberget back to work here in Stortinget. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘From the police, we now hear that for manpower reasons, Spaniards are being transferred to uniformed order service. This means that their identity will become known and that they will not be able to return to their exploration activities. Does the Council acknowledge that this is a problem, and how will the Council of State ensure that police investigations can continue with undiminished strength in the fight against crime in general, and drugs in particular?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e569	All first, thank you very much. It's nice to be back. At the outset, I would like to state that the administration of the police districts and most of the special agencies has been delegated to the Police Directorate. It concerns the allocation of resources, internal organisation and follow-up of results. The police directorate shall make an annual financial allocation to the police and officers' seat on the basis of a reunited resource allocation model, with which the respondent is also familiar. This model shall contribute to each police district having a share of resources that is proportionate to the tasks and local conditions of the district. It is the responsibility of the police officer to establish both the annual work framework and the means of operating and investing in the framework assignment in order to ensure the best possible police service for the entire police district. The question raised by the representative, Aspaker, is really about the disposal of police forces, and this is a matter for the law enforcement of police officers. This includes all categories of crew, including survey resources. Based on a police evaluation, it is the responsibility of local management to allocate tasks and competences to maximise the optimal use of resources. The deployment of teams in police districts will therefore reflect the priorities that police officers need to take in relation to the overall activities of police districts in order to maintain security for the population. Organised crime in general and serious drug issues in particular are a high priority in the police. This applies to all police districts and special agencies. The manning situation, which lies at the bottom of the possibilities of dealing with this type of serious crime, has been a challenge for several years, mainly because it has been trained for a few police officers. If we're going to have a scout, we're going to have to train police. This has been taken up by the Government, and I would like to repeat: it is, therefore, that this government educates more than 640 more policemen than the previous government did. It's a good tool to create more police force out there. In addition, we have chosen to increase the police budget by over 2 billion kroner since we joined. And by January at the latest, the police districts were given a budget that would enable them to now employ between 400 and 500 additional civilian teams, just to get more police officers out in operational service. That's about. 300 more than the right asked for just before Christmas. This is what I am concerned that we will succeed in. I'm going to go out with the Oslo police later today to hear and see how to dispose of it when you empty the warehouse for policemen, put in civilian detainees and get more policemen into the streets. This will also help to increase the number of people being surveyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e586	It is not an unknown matter that, in so far as it is the police officers who control their crews, but I now have to do with a government council that does not refuse anything, and which in many other contexts is very clear on what he thinks is right and important to prioritise. I believe it is important that both the Council of State and the Grand Council clearly indicate that the drug problem we have in Norwegian society is serious and will grow larger if the police do not dispose of their resources in such a way as to make it possible to get it off the hook — deflect, take backers, make seizures — and thus prevent the spread of drugs. So my question to the Council of State is: how will he make it clear to the police director and the police officers that this is a priority job? For losing the fight against drugs, I think it will have some social consequences and bring some costs that we do not understand today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e593	I fully agree with the representative of Aspaker that priority should be given to the response to the obvious drug sale that we see in particular. Oslo. That's also why I met the police officer in Oslo last night, just to make sure that the funds and the 100 posts that Oslo will now receive help to deal with some of this obvious crime. It is also important when we have more mobile police posts and more people in place, that we respond with firmness and strength. And I'm glad that the sellers are being resolutely held in custody, that they are punishing those who buy, that the level of punishment for those who move in this environment is rising, and that those who have a foreign background and have nothing to do here are actually getting the reaction after custody and punishment, namely expulsion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e600	Some time ago, there was an alarm from Swedish drug police because it was thought that Norwegians were unable to respond to alerts, etc. in the way you should. Similarly, the Tollvessen on Svinesund complained that you have knowledge that you would like to share with the police, but as there is not always any police at the other end to accept and follow up. Does the Council of State see this as a problem? Will he take further initiatives to ensure that both communication with the police authorities of other countries and communication between police districts and between Customs and police is even better at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e605	That's what I've taken the initiative to do. The representative knows very well that the government has come to port and is ready to sign, among other things. the cooperation agreement referred to as the Prüm Agreement, which will contribute to a much closer police cooperation, in particular between European countries, including the Nordic countries, and which will contribute to a much greater use of DNA. This applies not only in drug cases but also in other serious criminal cases. At the same time, I would like to say to the representative Aspaker that one thing is to point out the problem that we need resources, but think of what it would have been like if we had kept to the low level of police training that the Right did when they were in government! Imagine what it would have been like if we had followed the Right recommendation on only 160 new positions in the police! In this way, I am happy that I am sitting in a government that has helped to raise the crew situation with as many jobs as you will now have, 460-300 more than the right before Christmas thought was advisable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e612	We're going to go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e618	‘Refers to a girl being imposed 30 days of conditional judgment for having received too much in social benefits. The background is that the girl called Nav's office in Alta and told me about the incorrect completion of the message cards. The amount of NOK 52 510 has been repaid. Despite this, she is judged to be grossly negligent fraud. The attorney general informs us that he will not deal with individual matters. What will the Council of State do to ensure that King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker receive equal and fair treatment of the judiciary in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e625	Within the framework of the law, it is up to the prosecution authority and the courts – not to me as Minister of Justice, nor to the Stortinget – to deal with individual cases and to provide for possible review of judicial and non-judicial criminal decisions. It's a very important principle. But it is our job to ensure that the principles of non-discrimination and legal certainty are respected. The law is based on not making a difference between King Solomon and Jørgen’s hatmaker. When we draw up a new penal code, which is now under treatment in the United Kingdom, it is such that it should apply to everyone – and so did the old one. The law shall be practised under the flag of non-discrimination and legal certainty. It is the prosecution authority that decides to sue under criminal law, and it is the courts, as a final instance, that decide this. It is the King of the Council of State who is the head of the prosecution authority, but in practice it is to challenge a competence that only the prosecution authority has. In conclusion, I would say that much of the legal work that is now in Stortinget, nor does it bear the impression that there should be any difference between the king and the hatmaker, rather the opposite. We are expanding many of the fields of action of criminal law to include, in particular, the crime affecting the most vulnerable, namely violence against women and children. It is a very important legal certainty perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e634	It could be humane for once to relate to the present and not to a future as to what might be adopted on the Storting. So here we have a case with a girl who has reported that she has made a mistake with her registration cards. At the same time, we have a situation in Norway where two former prime ministers have been paid too much pension. They're in the same situation. They say they will pay back, and they will not be charged. So objectively, it is quite clear that there is a discrimination between Jørgen Hatter and King Solomon. That's why it's a little sad to hear the Minister of Justice say that this is going to be a random treatment at the various police offices through the prosecution authority, and that this is going to be allowed to go its own time. I assume that the Minister of Justice actually has authority to intervene when there is a serious mistreatment of people in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e641	The Minister of Justice has no opportunity to intervene with the Public Prosecutor’s Office in criminal proceedings. I think we should be very happy about that. I think we should also be very pleased that the policy does not govern the prosecution decisions, nor does it govern the decisions of Norwegian courts. Then we would have a situation where you could just use Storting's Question Time to draw up individual cases, and then there would be a policy in the cases. This does not mean that when you create both procedural rules and substantive rules, you should not be aware that the law should work the same for everyone. This is the starting point for the legislation that we have – and that the Progress Party has supported all the way – and also for the legislation that we are going to have in the future, at least as long as the government in which I sit is responsible for criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e648	What ultimately gets very wrong in a preventive perspective is the signal effect that this sends out to society. When a person on an independent basis chooses to listen here, I have made a mistake, I have filled out my registration cards wrong, and then in the next round to get a charge and then get convicted of gross fraud with money you have already paid back, in my opinion, this will be perceived as very wrong in society, because people clearly see that here we have a discrimination. I agree with the Minister of Justice that it is not the policy that should govern on a case-by-case basis in relation to the Norwegian judiciary. But it's also true that when you clearly see that something works very wrong, you actually have the opportunity to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e655	I have no further comments, except those I have already given.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e660	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e666	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 states that it is appropriate to give priority to E18 on the Tvedestrand-Arendal route in East Agder, subject to toll financing. The wording of the transport plan has created enormous expectations throughout the county. Assuming rapid local planning and trajectory, when the Council of State considers that the start of work on the Tvedestrand-Arendal road section can be started at the earliest, and how much State funding does the Council of State think it can be expected for the project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e675	I have noticed that the joy is great in the county over the E18 review in the NTP, and I share that joy. When the road Kristiansand–Grimstad is finished, it will be even clearer how bad the road Arendal–Tvedestrand is. So I'm busy getting started on planning fast. In the National Transport Plan Communication 2010–2019, the Government is devoting the start to the construction of E18 to the four-field road on the Tvedestrand–Arendal route in the last six-year period. A partial toll financing scheme has been established. For all State development projects over 500 million. there is a requirement for concept-valuation and external quality assurance for the Government to have better management of large-scale project planning at an early stage. The E18 Langangen–Grimstad is a concept currency for the line, and it has its ears on it. It is advisable to continue planning four-field roads. The case is for external quality assurance, KS1, and after that the government will make a basic decision on the concept before planning according to the planning and building laws can begin. The state road authority calculates a planning process of up to five years. Toll financing must also be considered more closely during this process and local decisions must be taken. It is therefore difficult to say today when the project can start concretely. The State part will be further clarified in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e684	I thank you for the answer and noticed it. It was probably about as unobligatory as the indent of the Government's proposal for a national transport plan in relation to this route. The reason why I am airing this specific case and this concrete development project on the E18 on the South with the Council of State in advance of the political process in Stortinget – which is due to take place on 11 June – is that the road project Tvedestrand – Arendal has an absolute top priority in East Agder per year. the date of issue. Locally, too, everything is absolutely all about getting a slightly more obligating formulation into the very setting of NTP than what is only perceived as a diffuse indent of the proposal in the NTP. As the Council of State knows, the road route is extremely poor. There have been too many fatal accidents there. Does the Council of State think that the timetable she described can be realistic on the basis of the assumptions she made to make these years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e693	There is nothing at this point that is diffuse in the national transport plan. The important thing about this point in the national transport plan is that it is the signal that the State Road Service needs to start planning. If that had not been the point, there would not be a basis for the State Road Service to move forward, and that would not be the basis for the Government to make its decisions and proceed with this important distance. For this reason, the starting point given in the national transport plan is what is needed to get planning on track, and also to enable municipalities to set their processes in motion, which of course are also very important in this respect. In the question, there was also a threat to the extent to which the State Finance Department can expect. Because of the large cost of the 22 kilometres to be built here – that's estimated at NOK 3 billion – it's probably hard to imagine having a 50 pst. toll components, such as the department and landfills, are often carried out otherwise, as costs are so high.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e700	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and hope – and believe – that she has noticed how important it is to be able to do something about this road route as quickly as possible. I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that she will follow this matter very closely in the future – at least as long as she is Minister of Transport. With regard to the demand for tolls, there is considerable scepticism, perhaps especially in the South, because there is already a whole obstacle — to use that expression — of toll stations on E18 through East Agder. It might be timely to ask the Council of State what she thinks we should have another road bill of approx. 20 km with enough a toll station, so when we've already approached an obstacle course of toll stations in the South. Many react, and I hope the Council of State understands that many react with anger that local funding is so dominant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e709	Some time ago, on the NRK, there was a look-up that showed the cost of a vehicle train by running from Stavanger to Trondheim. The one route passed through the West, which costs quite a thousand dollars. On the other section, one ran via Kristiansand and Austland, where it cost a few hundred bills. So, in the context of the burden you have on tolls and ferries in other parts of the country, I don't think it's right to say that one here is extremely burdened. But anyway, there's a question you have to decide locally. Whether or not to continue to finance tolls will be primarily a matter for local and regional authorities to decide on. And then we'll get to grips with the next roll of the national transport plan. I hope I can have a word in the team in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e719	The question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘The recently submitted national transport plan states that E6 between Memorysund and Creatorud will start during the first planned period and end at the latest. This means that this route will be completed in 2015 at the earliest. This was a stretch that was hoped to be completed in 2011 until December 2008. We are talking here about one of the most traffic and accident-affected sections in the country with vital importance for large parts of the country. What is the reason why the project is delayed for so long?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e728	The Ministry of Transport has done well for the project E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen in St.prp. No 87 for 2006-2007. The majority handled the case in the autumn of 2007 and decided to extend the first stage of development of the project. The first stage of development, the Gardermoen/Hovinmoen-Dal sections in Akershus and the Creatorud-Colomoen in Hedmark, are under construction and are open to traffic in October 2009. In view of the benefits for road safety and traffic management, the Government and the Stortinget have agreed that further development of the Gardermoen-Colomoen route should take place as soon as the individual parcels are clarified, cf. Inner. S. No 21 for 2007-2008. As a consequence, the Ministry of Transport will make a roll-out proposition for the Dal–Minnesund route as soon as possible. This section represents a second stage of the project development. On 25 February 2009, the Ministry of the Environment adopted a trasé for the Minnesund-Skaberud route, which will be the third and last stage of E6 deployment from Gardermoen to Colomoen. The planning work has been started in Eidsvoll and Stage. External quality assurance, KS2, shall be carried out for the project on the basis of an approved regulatory plan and a project ready for construction has been established during 2012. At the same time, the government is adding a path and a road along the Mjøsa. Estimates show that this could result in cost reductions of about 400 million. kr. The overall project will be very extensive – approximately €6 billion. Etats have currently calculated the construction time of the project for about three years. Traffic recovery on the last section of the project could take place in 2014, possibly in 2015 – depending on the speed at which it is implemented. I share the representative’s assessment of the importance of maintaining a high focus on the progress of the project and, following the planned clarification of the Minnesund-Skaberud route that has now been made, it should be well suited.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e741	I thank you for the answer, but I don't think I got any very good explanation as to why it has been so much delayed. But I take note that there was a little bit of an “issue” – as it is called – in the government around this. I believe that the lack of innovation in the Government, both in terms of how the project is to be implemented and in terms of financing the projects, is now beginning to hamper the development of rather central infrastructure. In Hedmark, it is made visible by the fact that the projects that people think are going on are being pushed forward in time to create room for new projects. That's how I read the picture from the Government. It is estimated that the disappointment of getting the projects later will be less than the expectation of new projects. Does the cost of lack of innovation in road operations start to be passed on to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e750	The representative of Gundersen is as well aware as I am of the fact that the reason why this project was delayed was local conflict over performance. That is what has delayed the project, and we in this government respect it. Nor do I believe that the representative Gundersen will be in favour of overcoming local government powers on important issues relating to residents in their municipality, and of course they have the right to raise their point of view, but one to the seventh and last must come to a clarification. The lack of plan clarification that was in some municipalities on this route is the reason why the project is delayed. It's so publicly known that I don't think it was necessary for me to go into it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e757	I guess we've got local fights all around the country. In fact, for this project, it was decided that a state regulatory plan could be intervened in order to break into the disputes. I have great respect for local democracy, but sometimes you actually have to break through from government. If there's going to be equal delays up, there's not much hope for the rest of Oppland and Hedmark, because we know there's going to be major disputes about trasé elections further north, too, including. in the Gulf of Hamar. I had imagined that a much longer trajectory was now planned and the E6 was being expanded through Hedmark and Uppland. I hope that the Council of State is willing to look at the proposals that the Right came into its national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e764	In danger of using unparliamentary terms, I would call Right's national transport plan an unreliable document. On the right, it has been shown with all clarity that one in position reduced ambitions in its national transport plan when one set in position and presented a document to be implemented – a reduced ambitions for roads, a reduced ambitions for roads. There was little innovation in the national transport plan. There was also no increase in the frames. I think it's unlikely that Right is willing to present itself as a party that people should be able to rely on in the field of social policy. Right-wing has clearly shown that when they come into position, when they have the Minister of Finance and prioritize, they give priority to tax relief. This government does what we promise to do – prioritizes the important money for the important projects. Therefore, there will be more interaction with this government than with Right in Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e772	«By reply to written question No. 891 for 2008-2009, the Minister of Finance has replied that the Ministry of Finance has not prepared a description of the development of car charges. The estimate for 2009 is approx. $60 billion. One sober prediction suggests that during the NTP period, the state could receive over 700 billion kroner in revenues from car traffic. The government’s proposal for the NTP 2010–2019 set at NOK 219 billion for road use. The need is about three times greater. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a greater proportion of the country’s revenue from car traffic is used for road transport in the next 10 years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e779	Charges from the Norwegian car park, whether in the form of entrance fees, fuel taxes or annual taxes, are included in the total state tax revenue and tax revenue and are not allocated to specific purposes. However, the representative, Mr Sortevik, should have no doubt that the Minister for Trade is constantly working to increase the rights of trade. Since 2005, the government has repeatedly shown its willingness and ability to give priority to trade. In the 2006–2009 government budget, the overall level has been over-filled by NTP 2006–2015. The Government’s willingness to increase its commitment to transport is further significantly enhanced by the submission of NTP 2010–2019, which represents a historic effort on both road and rail. So when the representative Sortevik asks what the government will do to ensure that a greater part of the state's revenues from car traffic will be used for road transport in the next ten years, the answer is that the government has put forward a national transport plan that proposes to spend NOK 100 billion more on traffic over the next ten years than what was in the previous plan. I also appreciate the fact that the political agenda is high on society – that is what both I and the representative Sortevik have contributed to – and that is important in order to ensure that the sector's promises are made. It is also important to have a government that does what to do, and that does it within a responsible economic framework, where one must also ensure other sectors, and where one must rise to keep the order of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e792	Thanks for the answer. We share the ambition – as the Council of State says – but we do have a slightly different view of both the instruments and the economic framework that can be used and needed. The Government’s proposal for NTP for the period 2010-2019 states in Chapter 6 on alternative infrastructure financing, user payment: ‘Although it may be desirable to reduce user payment from an efficiency point of view, this will create major financial problems.’ Can the Council of State describe the financial problems by reducing user payments? Is this written before or after the effects of the financial crisis were known to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e806	The national transport plan went into print after the financial crisis had struck the Norwegian people and countries. Nevertheless, it is clear that the national transport plan is not a counter-cyclical plan in relation to the financial crisis. The framework of the national transport plan shall be maintained in good and bad times. It shall be valid for 10 years in advance, and it is significant that it will be followed up independently of the economic cycle, although, of course, for each year it may be variable if a sub-fulfilment or over-fulfilment, depending on the overall economic situation, to which all responsible governments must adhere. However, the point is that overall the frameworks should also be met, as we have done for the national transport plan in force during this period. What's written is written knowing that we're in a financial crisis right now. The government has met with billions of people in extra privileges, but we hope that these times will eventually be replaced by a new growth period in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e813	Once again, I thank you for your answer. What the drivers know they can deal with is that the state is going to charge more than 700 billion kroner in the next decade. What they also know that they might have to prepare for is that they're going to start paying a total of $60 billion more in tolls. What is the big financial accident if the state had spent a little more of the big profits that the state will be left with through revenues from car traffic, and thus made it unnecessary to burden both business and motorists in general with an extra charge of NOK 60 billion over the next decade? I repeat, because these are important numbers: the state collects NOK 700 billion, spends NOK 220 billion on road use, and requires the drivers for NOK 60 billion in special taxes. Is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e824	It is a derailment of the debate to include a charging system that has been anchored over many decades in Norwegian policy. Of course, it's also a derailment that a party that wants to spend more money on absolutely everything is the party that wants to cut taxes and taxes on absolutely everything. There's something that each of us can understand, that it doesn't work if a cut income page and increase expenditure page dramatically. Because there is a dramatic increase in health, care, culture and defence, in all key areas of society, all expenditure will increase dramatically – with the exception of agriculture, rural policy and unhelp, which are areas where they are willing to cut little by little, but it will be little compared to the huge growth they are going to have on others. Most people realize that this isn't going to happen together. It doesn't have faith. That's why I hope people see that it pays to have a government that does it a win one should do, and that gets speed on the policy of the trade in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e832	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘A report by the State Radiation Protection Agency has carried out for the Ministry of the Environment warns against serious consequences of a discharge from the British nuclear plant Sellafield. In the worst case, a discharge from one of the storage tanks at Sellafield may cause a radioactive drop over Norway which is 50 times greater than it was in the most severely affected areas following the Chernobyl accident. This will particularly affect the West. What will the Council of State do with the UK authorities to ensure that this waste can be safely stored?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e841	I want to thank the asker for a very important question. This is a very important report, which it is important that attention be paid to. It is also true, as it is said, that it points out that the West is the part of Norway that will be hardest hit by a discharge from Sellafield. It has long been known that large quantities of liquid high-radioactive waste have been stored in Sellafield and that the consequences could be serious both for the United Kingdom and for neighbouring countries if a greater proportion of this waste is emitted as a result of an accident or a terrorist act. While the risk of emissions is high, there have been several incidents at the plant that indicate that the safety of the plant is not good enough. A UK safety authority report prepared after a major internal leakage at the Thorp plant in 2005 addressed extensive criticism of the safety culture of the plant. What the State's radiation protection system has now done is to calculate the rate of deposition of radioactive substances across Norway if such emissions occur. It is assumed that 0,1 to 10 pst. the amount of waste contained in the tanks is released to air. In this interval, the fall over Norway will be 0.1–50 times the level of worst hit sites in Norway following the Chernobyl accident in 1986. Let me add that that is the direction of the wind at the time of the accident that will be decisive for how the downfall comes, and that is how much rainfall there is at that time, which will determine how much falls. But it is true that it is the West that will be hit from Sellafield, just as it was mainly the East that was hit from Chernobyl, because the downfall is happening on both sides of the mountains. This confirms that the Norwegian concern has been and is justified, and that it is very important for the UK to take action to reduce the risk. This implies both the need to reduce liquid radioactive waste as quickly as possible and the need for safety to be on top. The concern about the risk of emissions and the safety of Sellafield is something the Government has raised with British colleagues on a number of occasions. Both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I have addressed it with our colleagues at various meetings and in different contexts. There is also a close dialogue between State radiation protection and UK safety and environmental protection authorities. The new owners of Sellafield came to Norway a few months ago to discuss safety with the Norwegian authorities. The report from the Straw Delivery does not assess the likelihood of events leading to emissions, nor have we received information from the UK that allows any statistical calculation of the risk of an accident to be made. Given that even the British will be worst hit if a larger emissions occur, the UK authorities are, of course, those who are most concerned that the likelihood of larger emissions should be as low as possible. A serious accident in this type of storage tank has not occurred in Western countries. In the former Soviet Union, a serious accident occurred at a storage tank for liquid high-activity waste in 1957 in a place called Majak. I myself have been there and seen the unimaginable consequences of that accident. The fact that we have produced such a report from Norway is in itself a strong signal to the British. The report will be followed up by new contacts with the UK Government and the UK authorities to reduce the risk as quickly as possible. We will also reiterate our demand that the Thorp plant in Sellafield, which is the source of the highly active liquid waste, must be shut down. We will also address the need to develop further the warning procedures between our two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e862	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, we know that an accident at Sellafield will have dramatic consequences for Norway too. That was one of the reasons why Børge Brende had Sellafield as one of his most important issues, and important progress was made at the time. I note with disappointment that the red-green government does not have the power to prioritize the follow-up to the important safety work and the goal of shutting down Sellafield. I therefore believe that it is urgent. I also record that the Council of State refers to its British colleague and a good dialogue, but it is urgent to establish alliances with other countries around the North Sea, primarily to reduce the risk of emissions and to close the entire plant in the long term. What will the Council of State do to move forward in that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e873	Let me first say that it is completely pointless to try to make party politics out of something that is an important national interest. If we're going to do this, I would like to point out that the Swedish government, led by the sister party to the Right, has just used the Sellafield plant and in that way has not been an automatic alliance partner for us and for our government in the work to get it closed down. But this is too important a matter to be driven that way. Børge Brende made an amazing effort to get it closed down. We have followed this up on all the occasions that have offered. There is no doubt about the Norwegian message: the Thorp plant should be closed and, above all, not extended and put into service as the collection site for waste from other parts of Europe. This is a very serious Norwegian issue, and I have to say the largest year in the relationship between Norway and the United Kingdom, which is otherwise good in all areas. In sum: the risk of emissions is fortunately small, but any emissions will have so dramatic consequences for Norway that we have obligations to build preparedness and, above all, to contribute to the closure of the plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e880	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that the Sellafield plant must be shut down. In order to prevent leakages from the plant that will have dramatic consequences for Norway, the liquid waste must be converted into solid form and stored in safe landfills well below the surface of the soil. The British claim that they aim to make such a transformation, but that it will take time. At the same time, we know that the process itself poses a certain risk of leakage. Will the Council of State ensure that Norway is allying with other countries around the North Sea in order to advance the process? Will the Council of State at the same time ensure that Norway is able to have an expert observer at the plant following the process, while at the same time helping to avoid possible breaches of the safety regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e887	Let me make sure that of course we build strong alliances with other countries. For example, Helen Bjørnøy had: close cooperation with Ireland in this area. We also encourage strong cooperation with the Swedish bourgeois government, and they have assured us that they will not repeat that Sweden is sending waste to Sellafield. Yes, we want to ally with other countries on this issue. But we also need to recognise that the United Kingdom is an independent country. They make their own decisions. We can influence them a little bit on the way, and this report is of course also a part of that impact. It was a very positive signal that the American company, which has now won the competition to operate the Sellafield plant, came to Norway with the UK security authorities to look at a cooperation between us. We were not satisfied with the warning time given. A short time ago, there was a minor incident at Sellafield, and I believe Norway should have been notified immediately about it. So we want to, yes, contribute to shutting down the facility, and yes, build an international alliance with neighbouring countries to get it done. But we will also call for cooperation with the UK authorities on rapid alerts in the event of incidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e901	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘According to the Central Statistical Office, approximately 940000 tonnes of waste are generated in the case of demolition, rehabilitation and construction of buildings in Norway. Some construction products use chemicals which are harmful to health and the environment and which require products to be treated as hazardous waste when discarded. Can the Council of State explain where this waste ends?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e910	I thank you for this question as well. Construction and demolition waste accounts for significant quantities. It is particularly important to ensure the collection and proper treatment of the parts of the waste containing hazardous chemicals for health and the environment to which the respondent refers. A number of hazardous substances to health and the environment have been used or used in building materials and in movable property in buildings. The most commonly occurring substances that make this hazardous waste by demolition or rehabilitation are PCBs, polychlorinated biphenyls – without me becoming a chemical expert here – brominated flame retardants, heavy metals, PAH, polyaromatic hydrocarbons, and asbestos. As part of the Environmental Protection Agency’s strategy for increasing the collection of hazardous waste, the Ministry of the Environment adopted a Code on Building Waste in 2007. The regulation applies to construction, rehabilitation and demolition products of a certain size and provides, inter alia, for: the requirement that the municipality approve in advance a list of waste likely to arise and its intended disposal. At least 60 pst is also required. sorting of the waste at the construction site. In addition, all building parts and installations which may contain hazardous waste shall be surveyed in the case of rehabilitation and demolition materials and an environmental restoration description shall be drawn up describing the findings, planned handling and delivery for treatment. Environmental monitoring and remediation shall be carried out by personnel with appropriate training and practice. The environmental restoration description must be approved by the municipality before it can be authorised to commence work under the Planning and Building Act. Furthermore, final report documentation on the delivery of the waste is required. Hazardous waste shall be delivered to the recipient authorised to handle it and shall be declared simultaneously to the State pollution control authority. Further treatment depends on the type of hazardous waste. Some types of hazardous waste are exported for final treatment, e.g. wood impregnated with copper, chromium and arsenic — so-called CCA-impregnated wood — which is currently sent to combustion plants in the other Nordic countries. Other fractions are treated at installations in Norway, either at combustion plants or at the NOAH hazardous waste facilities in Lang Island. The new construction waste regulation is an important tool to ensure that hazardous waste from demolition and rehabilitation is properly treated. We also have a high focus on construction waste in the work on increasing the collection of hazardous waste in general. Insulation from construction, materials with the pollutant PCBs and wood impregnated with creosote or copper, chromium and arsenic is a high priority in the State pollution control strategy for hazardous waste for the period 2008-2010. Important measures include: knowledge-raising, information, guidance and supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e925	I thank you for this answer and have a follow-up question. It is assumed that a lot of special waste, especially from the construction industry, is being diverted. Many municipal buildings, including schools, are refurbished each year. There are still large quantities of asbestos and other special wastes in many public buildings. Does the Council have the impression that building waste is being taken seriously in municipal tendering and renovation activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e932	I think a short answer to that is yes, serious but not serious enough. Fortunately, we see a decline in hazardous waste in Norway, and we see a decrease in hazardous waste, which we do not know where it will go. There is a positive trend in this area. I am absolutely sure that the questioner and I have a common interest in getting that development to go considerably much faster. In addition, I would like to say that it is also a goal to reduce the use of dangerous toxins initially. If dangerous toxins are not used in new building materials, it will reduce the amount of waste later. We have reduced a sample with the ambition that all pollutants will be phased out in Norway in 2020. It's a high level of ambition. But if we can both reduce that new use, and get an even better system for receiving and disposing of the hazardous waste already in the industry, we will succeed in a little while.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e939	I also thank you for this answer, and have a final question. Today it is free for individuals to submit special waste, but it is relatively expensive for businesses. What measures is the Council of State considering to increase the submission of special waste from the construction industry and to reduce special waste on the ground?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e946	When it comes to avoiding the risk of special waste, it is clear that a very important theme is to prevent it from occurring initially, i.e. not to use harmful substances in products — in this case in the construction industry — so as not to cause the problem. In the case of products already in use, we want in principle to follow the polluter-pays principle: whoever created a pollution must also be responsible for cleaning up afterwards. This is also the so-called cradle to the grave-principle where you try to follow a commodity, look at the problems when it is created, when it is in use, and also when it is eventually destroyed, destroyed, thrown into the filling, burned or whatever it may be. You look at all the sides of the product. We need to reduce the scale of the problem, and then we need to get an ever-increasing improvement in collection systems and sorting, so that hazardous waste is handled differently depending on what is the correct form of destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e956	This question, from the representative of Knut Arild Hareide to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be raised by the representative of Laila Davay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e959	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘It will now be announced that several food departments will be closed during the summer, including: in Molde and Kristiansund, and that it is assessed in Orkdal. It is unclear which measures have been taken in these health care establishments to avoid summer closure. State councils require in St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009 that it is not the economy alone that is responsible for closure. Will there be an accompanying service where the distance indicates it, in all areas affected by summer-bound food departments in the summer of 2009?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e968	Births shall take place in a safe environment. As far as possible, the aim is to ensure stable annual operations at food establishments. In the mission paper of regional health companies, I have underlined that summer and holiday connections are not to be justified by economy alone. If it is not possible to liquidate properly statutory leave, the period of closure shall be made as short as possible. Measures shall also be put in place to ensure soundness, in cooperation with the municipalities. As regards plans for the summer closure of food establishments in Health Mid-Norway, the regional health company has stated that the food department in Orkdal should operate normally in the summer, while the food departments in Molde and Kristiansund should switch over to the summer rest period, as they have done in the last five years. By shutting down the two maternity wards for four weeks each, Health Nordmøre and Romsdal HF can also staff the food supply with permanent staff in the summer. The health business has been early out with information to pregnant women and local authorities. They have also invited to dialogue if someone has special needs. In the summer, a separate letter shall be sent to the women on how to deal with the need for transport. The food supply as it was in Health Nordmøre and Romesdal last summer has now been evaluated. The evaluation shows that the birthers felt well informed about the closure, and they were very satisfied with the offer. More than 80 pst. said the stay cut from 8 to 10 on a scale from 0 to 10. The need for accompanying services was particularly updated last year, as the summer closure was more extensive than this year. Health Mid-Norway reports that the ambulance service is well prepared for this year's summer settlement, and that mid-Norway mid-Norway mid-Norway is moving into the ambulance if necessary. The route to birthplace and follow-up service is a central theme in the conversion of maternity wards to feeding rooms and in holiday connections. The Government will have a more coherent system of funding and a clear responsibilities for the accompanying service. As the representative is aware, the Stortinget shall deal with St.meld. No 12th@item: A happy event, during the spring. There we propose that responsibility for accompanying services be added to regional health companies, as is the case for other sick transport, including the ambulance service. We also propose that regional health businesses be required to draw up a comprehensive plan for the provision of maternity, childbirth and maternity services in the region, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned. Pregnants must be guaranteed a decentralised, differentiated and predictable supply of food, including in festivals and holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e985	Thanks for the answer. I have a follow-up question to my original question, namely about the follow-up service. The Council of State answers that the midwives will be able to move out if necessary in the summer when these two hospitals close, as decided. My question is then whether everyone who is born in this region can expect them to receive midwife service, and that there will be no problems with it in any context. If they need it, can they be sure that they will have a midwife with them in the transport to the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e992	It is always demanding to stand in Stortinget and say that there will be no problems, and that you can be absolutely sure of something. So I think I have to say it so that this is very well planned. They've done this five years in a row. So there's an hour's drive between these two hospitals -- it's seven and a half miles. I can assure the representative Davøy that birthing women have many places in Norway with far greater challenges than those we are facing here. This is very well planned. You are informed about what you have put in place a strategy for what you have tried before, and you have evaluated it before. Yes, we have a lot to do in terms of food supply, but I kind of think that these eight weeks we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e999	I thank you again for the answer. It is good to hear that the Council of State is so confident that this will be handled well. The municipality of Kristiansund, through its chairmanship, has insistently asked that the maternity ward that is kept open this summer. What they're saying is that based on the signals they've received from the trade unions at Kristiansund Hospital, it's both possible and proper to keep the maternity ward open all year round. So we know – and the Minister of Health is sure to know – that some of the reasons why we are going to be shut down are economics. It's not just that, but it's also economics. What does the Council of State think is that Kristiansund municipality is still asking for this department to be maintained? Are they not confident enough that the offer you have is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1008	I understand, of course, that a municipality would want everything to be just like before – I understand that. But I believe that this is a very important point that is now made in Health Nordmøre and Romsdal, namely that you can manage the holiday settlement in the summer by using only the permanent staff. I think it's safe and reasonable. Very quickly, the options here would be that you would have to hire people from outside to get to the holiday settlement in a good way. Then I believe that the chance is very great because the professional offer to the birthers is getting worse than with the scheme chosen here. It must be possible to do this – I think that in Finnmark there are lots of women who have 30-40 miles to the nearest maternity ward. That's where we can get it. Here it's seven and a half miles. We're doing this in a good and safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1018	‘More reports, including: a 2007 Swedish report, and research findings in social medicine show that women receive less health care than men. The Swedish report reveals that women receive poorer stroke treatment, longer waiting time for heart surgery and poorer access to new medicines. Men and women have different symptoms, with different needs, but unfair discrimination is serious. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Welfare believes this to be unacceptable. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1025	The Ministry attaches great importance to the provision of an equivalent offer to women and men in the field of health care. The gender perspective should be taken into account in all prevention, diagnosis and treatment. This has been clarified in all the governance documents of regional health enterprises and to the underlying agencies – over several years. We have started our own research on women's health under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council. From 2008, research will give greater priority to projects such as: addresses the use of healthcare by women and the organisation of the offer. In 2006, we established the National Centre of Competence for Female Health at Oslo University Hospital, Department of the Rikshospitalet. One of the projects is the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases in pregnant women. Research funding is allocated to all regional health enterprises and to several health-related programmes in the Norwegian Research Councils. Here we have clarified that the gender perspective should be clear in all health and disease-related projects. We have specifically asked the Research Council to report on how the gender perspective is taken into account in each research programme. The Health Directorate is now developing national guidelines for prevention, acute treatment and brain rehabilitation. The gender perspective is important in this work. A proposal to establish a national register of cardiovascular diseases is now widely consulted. The aim of the register is to contribute to good quality in the processing process. The register shall include, inter alia: used for research, disease surveillance and management of health care priorities. The register will thus also be able to provide better knowledge of heart disease among women. The public inquiry Women's health in Norway, which came in 1999, put the issue on the agenda, and we got a lot of new information. Unlawful discrimination in health services cannot be accepted. Further research on the health of women and men is needed — and the way in which they are met in the service sector. We still need to press on what importance sex and gender differences can have — in prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In fact, it seems that in many ways women are losing their way in the fight for health and that women often do not receive equivalent treatment for health care. Human and female health symptoms are different, and equal treatment is not the same as equal treatment – I fully agree with that. Women have more chronic diseases, more complex problems than men, problems that traditionally have lower status than men. Does the Council of State – in relation to the answer he has given – mean that the health service takes this into account, and does this have something to do with attitudes that we need to process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1053	I think the health care system can get better, and we're pushing for it. I feel that we have an increasing awareness in Health-Norway of the issues that the questioner points to. What these inequalities are due to, I don't think I have time and opportunity to speculate on now, but of course it can have something to do with attitudes. But I want to make it clear that it obviously has something to do with lack of knowledge, that we know too little. For example, we have a lot of discussion about the fact that a serious disease such as heart attack is different in women than in men, and that healthcare has too little knowledge to detect a possible heart attack early enough in women. That is precisely why I believe that the heart register and the records are so important, because then we get the facts and documentation. I hope that the Christian People's Party will support the establishment of a cardiovascular register when that matter comes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1060	The left will at least follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1065	I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1070	It's all right. I thank you again for the answer, and I very much agree with the Council of State that this with knowledge is very important in this setting. Resources for research councils, hospitals and health companies for earmarked research on female health are very important measures, and I will support the Government and the Council of State in this. I expect that there will be even stronger searchlights on this with health care for women. They often feel that they are not being heard, not being taken seriously with their symptoms. As the Council of State said, there are completely different symptoms of heart attack in women, of Bekhterev’s disease and many other diseases than in men. There's too little research on this. I also expect a clear commitment to economics in terms of research into women's diseases and non-discrimination. When does the Council of State think we can expect results from this research and non-discrimination in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1079	Then I start by saying that I hope that both the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and all of them support the establishment of a Card and Card Register, because I think it's important to get knowledge. Building health care activities on knowledge and knowledge development is so important. I want to tell the representative Larsen that I think it is very good that these kinds of questions are addressed in the Questionnaire, that it focuses on it, keep a focus on it. It helps the world move forward. There will be more research. I believe the truth is that results from research are being implemented all the time, that is, that research works, and that leads to a change in treatment forms. So it's an independent point that more research is being done on these kinds of questions, because it's important to change treatment arrangements. At least I can assure you that we in the Department will keep the pressure on the gender perspective of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1086	Questions 9 and 10 have been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1092	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: «State State Power expresses in the Official Journal of Bergen on 26 March a wish to use its capital to buy up in the regional power companies. State power owns today in Skagerak Energy, BKK and Agder Energy. State power is negative for the power companies to expand broadband. Competition supervision advises against further concentration in the power sector. The government has ambitions for broadband and competition in the telecommunications market. What is the Government’s view of the role of State in these issues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1101	As the representative Hansen points out in his question, the government has ambitions about – and has implemented – a strong commitment to broadband development. We are also committed to ensuring competition in the telecommunications market. As far as the tasks of Statkraft are concerned, I would first of all like to point out that the Government's objectives of ownership in Statkraft and the framework for the company's activities are set out in the 2006 ownership notice. As the representative is well-known, the activities of Statkraft shall be conducted on a commercial basis. The main task of the company is to be an efficient producer of power in Norway, and growth in Norway must be done on a maritime basis within the limits set by the competition authorities for further procurement. Furthermore, the government expects the Government to have high ambitions for the company's research and development activities within a commercial framework, including in Norway. As is known, during the period 1999-2002, Statkraft purchased significant holdings in the regional power companies in which municipal owners sold themselves. A majority of the Stortinget considered it important to ensure Norwegian ownership of these companies and thus provided, as is known, a financial basis for executing the acquisitions by granting equity to the company. The aim was to ensure a competitive Norwegian company for power generation and to avoid Norwegian hydropower production coming on foreign hands. Regional power companies have today developed a number of different activities based on their network activities. Several of the companies include: active in the broadband market, as well as known to the representative. Both Agder Energie and BKK, where Statkraft has significant holdings, are also, as is well known, joint owners of the Bredband Alliance. The broadband alliance recently bought the state's shares in BaneTele, and thus became the sole owner of this company. The investments that have taken place through the Broadband Alliance are a significant uplift for the participating power companies. I would also like to refer to the press release from the board of directors in BKK on 26 March, where the board of directors decided to continue the profitable fibre investment in the company market. It is important for the Government that regional power companies can grow and contribute to diversity in the energy market. State power's involvement in regional companies has to be done by sea within a commercial framework, but I am engaged in – and I expect – State power to exercise its ownership so that it contributes to a good and positive development in these companies. It is, as is known, the government and management of the State to determine on an ongoing basis the business arrangements to be made by the company. This also applies to the ownership of Statkraft in the regional companies, including the natural involvement of broadband activities. The role of the Ministry as owner is to draw up general guidelines for the activities and to make ownership decisions in matters dealt with at the business meeting. The government sees regional companies as important players in its markets. In this context, I would like to follow closely the way in which State power exercises its regional ownership in the future. This also applies with respect to BKK.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1120	I would like to thank you for the answer, which I feel is considerably more nuanced than what we have seen in the press. The Council of State initially states that State power is to operate within the framework of the Competition Act. Now it is a well-known matter that the government has contributed to Statkraft's review of the Competition Authority's decision to ban buying up in Trondheim Energia. It is in that context that it seems opportunistic that Statkraft then in the Official Journal of Bergen on 26 March expresses a clear ambition to take a greater share of the Norwegian power production market. We have a competition authority that almost continuously warns against increased concentration. They actually recommend breaking up some of the ownership and dominance of Statkraft in the Norwegian production market. In this context, it is very special that State power then clearly expresses an ambition of the opposite. Can the Council of State give a clear answer as to whether Statkraft is authorised, by the Competition Act or the ownership, to increase its dominance in the Norwegian market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1131	Now I believe it has long been known that Statkraft has had a desire to have an even more dominant ownership of BKK and Agder Energie, because it has been an explicit part of their strategy. The competitive assessments carried out so far in relation to the acquisition of State power have taken into account the fact that State power must be able to own those companies in full. The feasibility of such a purchase, or simply of becoming something, depends on many factors. First of all, it means that today's municipal owners will sell. There is a situation that is not present today. It will also depend on whether Statkraft has the ability to carry out these types of transactions — it is also an open question — and also on the competitive judgements at the time it becomes applicable. This needs to be considered when there is a current issue and is a current situation. It's not per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1138	I would like to thank you for your answer, but I think that this answer was a bad one. I think it would have been a clear advantage if the Government, which owns the State Power, gave a very clear signal about the practice of ownership. It is obvious that such a capitalist would be able to work long-term to achieve the type of position the company expresses in the Official Journal of Bergen. I believe it is obvious that an owner should have an opinion on these kinds of questions. When the government at the top of it all has overestimated the Competition Authority in a matter of exactly State power's ownership of the regional companies, I think it would have been clarifying and tidy that the Council of State gave a very clear signal of the Government's ambitions to subdue several of these regional companies are current policies, or whether that is totally out of date. Government funding has been requested for investments of up to DKK 90 billion, half of which is in Norway. It might have been interesting to know if the Council of State sees that some of this money could be spent on this kind of anti-competitive purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1147	When I don't want to answer it even more clearly today, it's because it's per. There is no current issue today. As the owner, we take, in addition to what is said in the leading documents, e.g. the ownership message, its position on a case-by-case basis. This means that if that issue were to arise as a current issue, for example. related to BKK, we will make the necessary assessments. But per year. Today I am not familiar with a current issue. It is the board and the management who in that case must promote it and promote it further in the system. There are many considerations to be taken into account in such a decision. We'll get back to that if it's up to date. Otherwise, I just have to stress that we are very concerned about the role of regional companies in Norway. They are important for industrial reasons and for other reasons, and are important engines in their regions, whether they are located in Bergen or elsewhere in the country. Consideration must be given, as a matter of course, to considering many questions in the future. I expect Statkraft to continue to work very actively in the positive sense of the regional companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1160	«I refer to my question to written answer No. 1394 on 30 June 2008 that 80 government and municipal websites have spread viruses. Again, data security problems related to the country’s websites have been reported. The evening post reports on 19 March 2009 that outsiders have placed viruses on departmental websites, viruses that can destroy people's PCs. It was claimed that the government authority was warned and warned, but nothing was done. What does the Council of State do to ensure that government websites are better secured for users and to avoid data breaches on public networks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1167	Let me start with a clarification when it applies to the Evening Post's First Page 19 March 2009. The title was "Government's websites spread viruses", and it may give the impression that the government's official pages are spreading viruses. In the article, the matter has been properly presented, but the title and the nature of the statement make it necessary to state that there are no sides to the government. It was the old home pages of a virus-infected project. The project's pages have never been located on the government.no platform, but with an external supplier. It has also been a full link from the Ministry of Children's and Gender Equality's web pages to the project. After the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality was made aware of the fact that the sites were infected with viruses, the Ministry took action to close the pages. The Ministry of Child Equality and Gender Equality agrees that the pages should have been removed at an earlier date, but now they're down. Then the representative Arne Sortevik addresses a very important topic, which he also refers to having recorded in a written correspondence with me earlier, and it is important that this is debated. As I replied in writing to the representative Blackevik last year, one of our biggest challenges is that there is a lack of understanding of user information security. Many activities and individuals underestimate the risk of poor information security. We often see that poor information security comes from a lack of anchoring of leaders and prioritisation of leaders in a business. Here there is a need for more knowledge and attention about having a good and solid information security in the enterprises, but also with us as individual users. I am therefore pleased that Arne Sortevik again addresses the question. Then the Government adopted national guidelines to strengthen information security in 2007, and there we state that the principle of responsibility should be followed, i.e. that each department is responsible for following up the areas referred to in its responsibility. One of the challenges we have is that there's a lot of dynamics in this area. The developers of viruses are often a horsehead or a leader in front of system developers and software developers, and they find weaknesses in operating systems. Hackers search the whole way for new bugs, and they just use them to spread viruses. The countermeasure is therefore to have a good security culture and a continuous development of that security culture – not believing that once one has done so, one has done it once and for all – and to develop security procedures both at companies and at individual users of IT. As one of several follow-up actions from my ministry, I have now asked the Directorate of Administration and ICT in 2009 to develop a plan for setting up ‘National Guidelines for Information Security 2007-2010’ by September this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1188	Thank you for a good answer. Maybe the horse isn't the right picture - it's the data worm that's going to blow up a little bit in front of it. In answer to my question last year, the Council of State referred to the Telenors Security Operations Centre and the National Security Authority to which the Council of State was also now referring, that many Norwegian businesses both in the private and public sectors — including the municipalities where there have been some worrying examples — do not regularly update their security solutions. It was also replied from the two security units that many Norwegian businesses simply lack good rules and procedures for the follow-up of IT vulnerability. Does the State Council believe that the state has good rules for this, and that the follow-up to IT vulnerability in state activities is good, given that we are becoming more and more online both to the public and to operational government services?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1195	Yes, I think we have good enough legislation, but then the rules should be followed, and an important part of following a code is about having competence, which the Blackevik representative is also involved in. And that's what's the challenge in this sector, because I think most business leaders are busy that people lock the doors when they go, let the glass, and that the glasses are locked, so it doesn't break in. So there's a little too naive a relationship, both in the private and public sectors, to what can actually happen in computers. We've seen it during the winter. Health West, who is also well known by the representative of Sortevik, has had serious problems. The police system has been out of operation, and national security authorities are notified of targeted attacks on authority personnel every week. For the time being, they have not managed to turn anything out, but at least that means that we, who are responsible for the Government Quartet, through the DSS, must have a focus on continuous good security work. It is the prevention work that is important, and then of course we will also be able to deal with events when they occur, but it is therefore the prevention work that is important, and then we have good enough rules, and then practice must follow the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1202	Thank you again to the Council of State for a good answer. The council itself points to two events that are also part of the background for me to address the question and the issue in this way. One was when Health West in January was severely affected by computer viruses, so that patients had to wait for treatment because the doctors did not have access to X-rays, and it seemed that there was absolutely no preparation for virus attacks of such dimensions. Later, we've also had trouble with the virus in the police. In other words, two important social institutions, many of which rely on every day, have had problems being operational, because they have been hit by viruses. It underlines the seriousness of this problem and the need to raise both the awareness of the problems and the means to address such problems. We got a new reminder last Monday, Monday 30 March, in the same newspaper, the Evening Post, to which I have initially referred, that there is also crime associated with this through organized criminal networks attacking Norwegian computers. How will the Council of State provide feedback to the Storting about improving data security in public and state activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1211	What is important is that the sector itself is responsible for this, and it is a responsibility of the sector to have a good culture of security in its business. Those with a good security culture and a good system are going to be much harder to hit by the kind of hacking and viruses they've experienced. We have different instances at different levels to deal with it. What lies below me is what is called NorSIS, which is on Gjøvik, which is supposed to be responsible for prevention. We arrange something we call a national security day, in terms of postal and telecommunications supervision, in conjunction with ICT-Norway and, as I said, with NorSIS, which we finance, and it's all about getting the attention around it and getting the responsibility placed. To date, I have seen relatively few state leaders on the national security days – I have divided into three. And I believe that some of the core of the problem is that currently there are enough leaders who feel this strongly enough to see it as their problem. It is my responsibility to take up and continue working on, to get the state leader group to take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1221	From the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Knowledge: ‘Some high school students are plagued by fellow students and thus feel disturbed and uncertain. This creates an unsafe day of school in various ways, which is not desirable. At Hamar Cathedral School in Hedmark, it is estimated that the students will be considered safe. What will the Council of State do to make all students feel safe in the school area and near the school, and feel a joy by going to school, and not least by getting some rest and time to learn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-01.ana.ud2013e1229	This question falls away. The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
