ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e45	The representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Rune J. Skjellaaen and Espen Johnsen, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. From the meeting alternate representative of the Hordaland County, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the remainder of the Ågot Valles leave from 20 January and until further notice, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the Socialist Left-wing Group there is an application for sick leave from the representative Heikki Holmås from 20 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Aud Karin OenFor Oslo: Ingunn Gjerstad
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e84	Aud Karin Oen and Ingunn Gjerstad are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e90	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e97	On behalf of Martin Engeset, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Torbjørn Hansen, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to strengthen the farmer's rights to own property.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e102	The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e105	On behalf of the representatives Erna Solberg, Sonja Sjøli and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to improve the quality of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e126	Chronic osteoarthritis is a disease characterised by joint inflammation, which can gradually lead to bone, cartilage and articulated capsules being destroyed. The cause of arthritis is unknown, but a good part is known about the course of the disease process. The disease causes pain, stiffness and, as a result, functional problems in everyday life. The severity may vary, but usually Revmatoid arthritis will have a chronic, fluctuating course with gradual deterioration. It is estimated that between 0.5 and 1 pst. adult populations are affected by arthritis. Approximately half of patients have moderate or severe functional problems at all times. The disease is three to four times more common in women than in men. The incidence is highest among the elderly. In the 60–69 age group, it is found that well and 1.5 pst. of women having arthritis and in the 70-79 age group almost 2 pst. During the course of the disease, patients with arthritis will be able to develop severe physical dysfunction, often also with affected mental and social health. Arthritis is a systemic disease that can also attack internal organs. Many osteoporosis suffer from osteoporosis, osteoporosis. This is because the disease often starts after the age of 50, because the change in inflammation itself promotes bone loss, and that many patients have to use cortisone preparations, which are also osteoporosis-induced. Several studies have shown that arthritis shortens life by from five to ten years. Until 1999, arthritis patients received a comprehensive treatment offer from the Oslo Sanitation Association’s Revmatism Hospital. Thereafter, responsibility was transferred to the ordinary health service. An article in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association of 2007 shows that today’s treatment ofrevmatians is characterized by fewer beds by the majority of Revmatological Hospitals and shorter lay time for patients. The Hospital Buskerud received 20 seats when the OSR was closed. Now there are two beds for revenators at this hospital. The Rikshospital was to be a nationwide offer for children and young people. The hospital had up to 14 beds in the fall and its own department. In August the number of beds was reduced to 10. The department was merged with neurology. Patients experience that this weakens the offer and increases waiting times. One mother told me that her ten - year - old son had to wait five months for an investigation at the Rikshospitalet in the light of suspicions of Revmatic disease. Since this interpellation was submitted, data on waiting times on the Free Hospital Choice website are up-to-date, and it shows waiting times for Revmatological investigation up to three years – three years! Haukeland Hospital has the dubious record of 144 weeks waiting time for investigation, according to figures updated per year. 19 January of this year. Many other hospitals have waiting times for an investigation of approx. a year. According to the Norwegian Ledgikt Association, many patients are told that the waiting time in practice is even longer than that stated on the website. For patients, long waiting periods involve unnecessary health problems and the possibility of falling out of work or missing important schooling. It is clearly necessary to strengthen treatment provision for those affected by arthritis and other rheumatic disorders, in order to ensure faster investigation and treatment. Municipal health care plays an important role for patients with arthritis. Lack of competence can lead to late diagnosis and, therefore, to aggravation of the disease. There is therefore a need to strengthen the knowledge of prescribers about arthritis and other Revmatic diseases. A patient says that health services used a lot of resources to operate a prosthesis after her elbow was destroyed by arthritis. The physiotherapist who came home to help restore his arm had no experience with this. As a result, the patient did not get the training she needed to use her arm again. This history illustrates that the provision of municipal health and care also needs to be improved if patients are to benefit from the treatment provided in the specialist healthcare service. Following the initiative of the patient organisations, the need for rehabilitation of patients with Revmatic Diseases was identified and the Stortinget decided in 1997 to establish a national revmatological rehabilitation and competence centre. This center came into operation from 1999 and is located at the Diakon home Hospital in Oslo. It consists of a specialised development and dissemination unit in addition to a Revmatological rehabilitation unit with five beds for multidisciplinary rehabilitation. According to a study carried out by Dr. Margaret Grotle at the National Revmatological Rehabilitation and Competence Centre, a rotation of the hospital-based establishment has taken place, away from rehabilitation and training to diagnosis, surgical intervention and outpatient treatment. This may be unfortunate for patients with serious illness and with the need for multidisciplinary monitoring and follow-up. Despite considerable progress in the treatment ofrevmatic diseases, many patients experience significant functional loss with psychological, social and economic consequences. People with arthritis are at increased risk of falling out of work, with the negative consequences this has on their social life and on their quality of life. The provision of rehabilitation services in regional health establishments is very deficient. A study carried out by the Health Directorate shows that 51 pst. of those asked within the group of musculoskeletal disorders say they need to stay in a training institution. Only 10 pst. has received such an offer. In the case of physical medicine and rehabilitation in hospitals, 29 pst says. that they need this. 5 pst. has received such an offer. Health Nord’s Action Plan for Revmatology 2008–2013 states that rehabilitation is an essential part of the treatment of patients with Revmatology, but that it is only offered for 6 pst. of patients with inflammatory disease and to an even lesser extent of patients with osteoarthritis and soft tissue revmatism. This study of Margaret Grotle shows that very many patients undergoing rehabilitation in training institutions have as good results as patients undergoing rehabilitation in the Revmatological Department in hospitals. However, even if rehabilitation in training institutions lasts longer, it is much cheaper. The study also shows that patients are equally satisfied with the offer they receive in a training institution, as with what they get in a hospital. And then a little bit more direct, some challenges to the council. The waiting times for diagnosis are up to three years at Haukeland Hospital, approx. one year in many other hospitals in the country. The waiting time leads to poor functional levels, unnecessary suffering for patients and increased costs of social security and community health care. What will the Council of State do to reduce the waiting time for patients affected by arthritis and other Revmatic diseases? In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government promises rehabilitation to everyone who needs it. On 8 December, 40 patient organisations and trade unions demonstrated outside the Government's broken promises of rehabilitation. The fasite after three years is that it is cut in private training institutions with 53,700 treatment days. This study, carried out by Margaret Grotle, shows that very many of the patients who receive rehabilitation in training institutions have as good results as those patients who receive rehabilitation in the Revmatological Department in hospitals. However, even if rehabilitation in a training institution lasts longer, it is much cheaper. Does the Council of State still feel that it makes sense to downbuild training institutions and build up much more expensive rehabilitation services in hospitals? Is this in line with his message that we need to focus more on health services outside the hospital? The last challenge: The closure of the Oslo Sanitation Association’s Revmatism Hospital has led, according to the Ledgiktbund, to the deterioration of highly specialised competence in the treatment of arthritis patients and other revenators. A national competence centre may contribute to better knowledge of the treatment of arthritis and other rheumatic disorders and may support and improve the quality of the provision provided by health care establishments. In addition, it may be natural to collect highly specialised treatment at such a centre of expertise. How does the Council of State evaluate this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e171	There is no doubt that there is a major and important question raised by the representative. This is an important patient group. The theme of the interpellence concerns the core of many health policy debates, namely the issue of an equivalent treatment provision for all as a clear policy objective. The Health Directorate estimates that about 20,000 Nordics are affected by arthritis and other related diseases such as Bekhterev’s disease and psoriatic arthritis. 15 000 have been diagnosed with arthritis, and between 1000 and 1500 children have childhood arthritis. There is no doubt that we are talking about a large group of patients who depend on close follow-up both in the municipality and in the specialist health service. Good interaction between and within the levels of healthcare is necessary to provide these patients with an offer to meet their needs. When Stortinget treated St.meld. No 50 for 1993-1994 Cooperation and governance. Objectives and instruments for a better health service, also referred to as the Health Notice, were adopted to determine whether the Oslo Sanitation Association’s Revmatism Hospital could be transformed into a specialised rehabilitation centre for patients with various types of rheumatism and musculoskeletal disorders. The then State Health Authority investigated this in collaboration with representatives of the Norwegian Ledgikt Federation, the Norwegian Revmatikerbund and the Oslo Sanitätsforening. The 1996 Health Inspectorate report concluded that most of the research and treatment tasks had to be done locally. The report pointed out that there was a limited need for a national treatment unit and that the need for this was primarily felt by children with Revmatism. The report also showed that the provision of specialised rehabilitation was deficient and that there was a lack of scientific evidence for the treatment methods. In the follow-up to the report, the National Revmatological Rehabilitation and Competence Centre was established at the Diakon home of Hospital. This centre of expertise has been an important force centre in Norwegian revmatology by providing good competence and guidance on the revmatism of health professionals in all areas of healthcare. In addition, all the surgical treatment of juvenile arthritis was added to the Rikshospitale, which has a national function in infant reproductive surgery, and which is a national centre of competence for paediatric revmatology. Considerable progress has been made in the treatment of osteoarthritis in recent years, in particular in the development of new medicinal products. It is gratifying that a large proportion of patients have a good or moderate effect on the new drugs. It is important that arthritis is diagnosed early, so that treatment is started quickly. The investigation and initiation of treatment is carried out in the specialist healthcare service, and proper priority is important to address differences and differences in supply. The new priority guides developed by the Directorate of Health in several disciplines shall contribute to the equal prioritisation of patients irrespective of their place of residence. They shall also ensure that the most ill patients are given the highest priority. The priority counsellor for patients with Revmatic Diseases was among the first five who were created, and it was launched before Christmas. I think it's very important to point out what's happening now when we get the priority counsellor in place. I think we can precisely, through the priority counsellor, be able to influence health care priorities in the sense that those who have the most need receive treatment first, and that there will be an equal treatment regardless of their place of residence. Interpellanten Wohnung states that there are 6 to 73 weeks waiting for an investigation for arthritis, and he now showed some even newer figures in his interpellation. What is important to say is that these figures generally apply to people with musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders. It is not possible to distinguish arthritis patients in this material. I would like to point out that arthritis patients are specifically raised in this priority guide for Revmatic Diseases. What is described is that in the case of musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, there are sometimes long waiting times for some of our hospitals. It's in itself critical. However, it is too fast to conclude that it also means that these figures are directly transferable to arthritis patients, at least taking into account the above-mentioned priority guide. The development of modern treatments, especially new and more effective medicines, has significantly reduced the need for bed places for this group. Improvements in the effectiveness of new medicinal products and less use of surgery have also changed the need for rehabilitation for many of these patients. But there will still be a group, not least elderly patients, who need close follow-up because of severe pain and functional loss, and there will be a group that does not benefit from modern drugs. For this reason, it is important that work on achieving structured, multidisciplinary rehabilitation continues in all parts of the country. It is in line with the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation for the period 2008–2011. Several learning and mastering centres also offer those with Revmatic Diseases. Patients with arthritis need well-developed services in the municipality, which were also involved in the interpellant, while requiring specialised medical or surgical treatment and rehabilitation. In the context of the interaction reform, we will assess economic, organisational and legal instruments that can support good patient paths for patients with chronic disorders. Of course, it also includes patients with arthritis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e203	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but must be allowed to point out that there were some things I missed in that answer. Firstly, all that has to do with the provision of rehabilitation, or rather, the provision of rehabilitation that the large, large majority of patients who need it do not get, and, if today’s situation continues, probably will never get. I referred to the study of Margaret Grotle, which is interesting precisely because it points out that the few patients who get the chance to stay in a training establishment are very satisfied with the progress they are making, and as I pointed out, it is a relatively cheap offer for Norwegian health care. Why is the Council of State not willing to take that glove and answer what he thinks about coming on the offensive in order to fulfill the promise made by the Soria Moria Declaration that all those in need of rehabilitation services will receive this? That's the one. The second is, of course, we can quickly agree that clarification of the priority rule is important, but it does not solve the basic problem, namely that the waiting times are, as I referred to with some numerical examples, almost dauntingly long. When you think about the pain and functional problems that people suffer from this disease are actually struggling with, years of waiting for investigation and treatment cannot be acceptable. My question to the Council of State is: does he not have any means at his disposal in the short term to bring these waiting times down to something similar to an acceptable level? Finally, it's exactly ten years since one went to the step of shutting down the Oslo Sanitation Association's Revmatism Hospital, which was the stop point that many of the heaviest arthritis patients had to stick to. At that time they were assured that this would lead to a more offensive attitude and a better offer. There's nothing to suggest that over the ten years we've actually got a better offer. Therefore, I would also like to have the Council of State comment on the question whether he believes that there may be a need for a national centre of expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e218	My main response is in line with the interpellation that the representative has notified in writing. I assume that you can understand that when, in his post just before, he asks a number of new, concrete questions, it is natural that the main answer is based on the written question I have received, and I believe that I have tried to answer it in a good way. Of course, the priority counsellor is very important. One thing is at least certain, and that is that what has been my starting point for the activities of the specialist healthcare service in 2009 is the best budget ever adopted. There is at least more money there than the representative of Inge Wohnung has proposed in this Chamber. So the financial framework conditions for the business in 2009 are better suited than ever. Then it is important to give professional priority to the resources of the specialist health service, and it is important that we have a clear and clear prioritisation guide that provides them with the most needed help first. Of course, in the case of people with severe pain and functional problems, which are words that the representative is now using, a waiting time of several years is unacceptable. But I both believe and believe that people who are in a situation of severe pain and functional problems do not have a waiting time of several years for that kind of problem. So it's true, as the representative for pay says, there are people with muscle and skeletal problems who have a waiting time of several years. It's also unacceptable. But to go there is a situation where people with arthritis problems and severe pain and functional problems of the Norwegian health care system are constantly offered a waiting time of several years, I think it is wrong. In exactly the same way, it is essential that people get the training and rehabilitation they need on a priority basis. I have nothing against people making use of a good offer in training institutions, and there are a lot of training institutions that are still there. But what I'm insisting on is that it's been right to clean up some of the training institutions we've had, because a lot of the professional business that's been too bad. It has also been right to build up some rehabilitation capacity in Norwegian hospitals. But we have more left to do in that area, and we have to grips with that. The question of a centre of expertise seems important to me. I will take with me what the representative on the payroll says in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e229	The interpellant addresses a topic that is important to raise to discussion, whether it concerns waiting times for patients with arthritis or other forms of Revmatism, or waiting times for patients with other chronic diseases who need treatment. Going and waiting for treatment, often with great pain, is hurt, and it's also not positive for the disease, because unnecessary waiting time can go beyond joints and mobility. In addition, there will be a great mental strain to go and wait. Not getting help or not getting a diagnosis and getting on in the treatment chain is perceived as difficult, whether it is six weeks' waiting time, or more, on which the interpellant has focused. Anyway, the focus on the disease is what governs the lives of the individual, which is easy to understand. Therefore, it is important to keep this and other patient groups in focus in relation to interpellant questions. One sees that when the waiting time is long, it will negatively affect the development of the disease. Then one should be extra attentive. We heard all the pay descriptions of what could happen, either by going for a long time or by using drugs. Early treatment could help maintain working capacity, restore quality of life and prevent harm. At the same time, we know that getting a diagnosis will be a relief for the individual, because then you know at least what you have to deal with. It is important for all people with Revmatical Diseases to get to the right treatment, in a timely and timely manner. Many have probably experienced being treated by the determinator long before being referred to further, because the onset of a number of rheumatic disorders is often diffuse and is not always as easy to reveal immediately. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders are often devalued and devalued. Many go a long time with pain in the body before they contact the doctor. There is often much to be tried first, with medicines that are traditionally to work, and treatment that dampens pain and discomfort. This is how time goes – and with new drugs if the first ones don't work. This is understandable because the interface between musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders is difficult to detect and distinguish. Here, knowledge of the prescriber is an important factor, and procedures for the detection of Revmatic Diseases must be used. It is important that, for example: Arthritis is diagnosed early, so that treatment can be started quickly and that treatment is investigated and started in the specialist healthcare system. Proper priority is important to address differences and differences in supply. I'd like to mention all the good new drugs that we've been given that have a good effect. They've improved daily life for many, and that's very good. But yet many need more. Many people get good help, but you can easily understand that waiting time is not easy when you need even more help. The Council of State referred to the new Health Directorate priority guidance staff to contribute to the proper prioritisation of patients, so that the sick and those most in need of treatment come first. It's positive. It's necessary, and it's good to have such a priority guide, so that one actually knows who's going to come first. But it is also important that this is made well known, so that you get an understanding of why not everyone comes to treatment or investigation as quickly as possible. This may be done in professional journals or with the doctor. The interaction, as State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen mentions, between the settler and the specialists needs to be improved. It is entirely in line with the thinking of the Government. And then maybe the race could be shorter. Being able to give the knowledge to those who hit the patients first, and thus giving the opportunity to identify who should be where, a little faster, could provide a smoother run for the individual while at the same time being economical for society. Therefore, interaction here is also an important part of the patient’s course. Many Nordics have a revmatic diagnosis, and even more have undiagnosed or diffuse muscle and skeletal plagues. There is a large group that will be visible on the budget line in terms of sickness and disability benefits. It is therefore important to reduce the waiting time – to clarify and move on. It's important that there's an equivalent offer, as the council says, no matter where you live, economy, or what you need to follow up with. Therefore, it is good that the Council of State follows this further up, and that the Government focuses on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e252	The interpellant addresses a very important topic, and this is a topic that concerns many people. One thing is one group of arthritis discs, but we know that for muscle and skeletal disorders in general, it's probably one of the largest groups in terms of, for example, muscle and skeletal disorders. non-employment and increased benefits related to just disability and other benefits. It is precisely in such a setting that the entire course of treatment becomes important. It is important to get quickly into the investigation, get that investigation carried out and get a diagnosis, make sure that those in need of surgery get it, and that those in need of drugs get it, into rehabilitation and so on. In response to the interpellant, the Council of State says that in the case of this group, a priority counsellor has been sent out. The problem is that it's just the investigation it's a long wait. It's very difficult to go in and say that this group should be given priority before you've actually been investigated, and you know what's wrong with the individual. You can't just easily explain it by sending out a priority counsellor when you don't get that investigation and diagnosis that's so important. What has to do with rehabilitation for this group is also very little mentioned. As regards rehabilitation of arthritis patients and of musculo-skeletal disorders in general, we know that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are very important. It goes on mobility, it goes on to be able to deal with the disease, and we also know that very many of those who get the good follow-up at all stages, and who were initially at work, can continue in work considerably longer than if you had not received this offer. We also know that it is very useful to get such a stay, so that you can get less pain and work better in everyday life. Neither are all those who need to be rehabilitated back to work – many have fallen outside the profession. It is also gratifying that very many new medicines have come, and let us hope that this development continues. This is a group that needs considerable help. As the Council of State was also involved, as age weighs, there is reason to believe – we know that to some extent too – that the plagues increase with age. Then it is important that we have just the expertise that we can now disseminate to all stages of the treatment chain. I would like to ask that the Council of State in the assessments he is now going to make – and the Council of State said so in its second post here – will look at exactly the area of competence. Then it's important that we can use the competence that we've already started working on at the Diakon home hospital. Let's use that competence. Let's expand that competence, so that more people can access it, and that more guidance can be provided to the community health service, which is important to them, so that we can give even more competence to the rehabilitation institutions, who need additional skills, and not least that patients themselves are even better able to cope with their own disease. I hope the Council of State will take this with me and at least consider expanding the business that is already at the Diakon home, so that we can get these things further up and down to the benefit and joy of more patients. I also hope that the Council of State will initiate and intensify the work of providing more people with rehabilitation and training. It's very important. We know that it benefits with rehabilitation and training, not only in a socio-economic perspective, where to those degrees you will benefit from it by allowing people to stand longer in work or use less medicine, etc., but also for the individual to be able to deal with their illness and for the relatives who have the burden they have in such a situation. Yes, this is a win-win situation, and that's why it's important that we use the resources to ensure that we provide rehabilitation. Or, let's make sure that we have increased competence and effort at all stages of joy for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e267	I always find it exciting to listen to the representative on pay, because he has a diversity in his approach on health policy issues. At the same time, if you sum up various interpellations that have been raised on health policy issues in this room, and if you were to think of a common conclusion, the common conclusion would be that we have to do more of everything for everyone. And that's just the dilemma of the health budget: we can't do more of everything to everyone – I've mentioned it before and would like to mention it again. It has been made very visible in the two priority committees that have managed Inge Wohnung. So you can't do more of everything for everyone. Then you point out – quite correctly – that there is a group of people with rheumatic disorders who have to wait disproportionately long. So the question is, how do you solve such a problem? Does this solve the problem by relying on the functioning of the market so that more people are treated and the queues are reduced? The answer to that is obviously no. If there's any area where the market can't solve these problems, it's precisely in terms of the groups we're talking about here. Firstly, the costs of treatment are so high in order to get people healthy that it is not profitable for a market to clean it up. In addition, we have seen that in some places there has been a significant over-establishment of rehabilitation clinics and training centres based on the market, but the issues on which money is to be made have been sorted. If you're going to be able to solve these problems, you have to look at how much resources you have to put in, how you have to distribute the resources to take down the queue, and how the public can control that it's not the market that makes you run wild in terms of costs. A document that I have read several times, and which I think is very good, is the document, which I have also mentioned before, that the then State Council Tove Strand Gerhardsen was developed in cooperation with the Health Directorate in 1988, which is Health for all the year 2000. The different specialities were taken into account and a calculation was made of the following: How much volume do we need in the case of different specialists in order to be able to remove the queues? How many average consultations do we have to count for the whole population per. years? How many consultations would a specialist be able to conduct? And so in sum, how many do we need of each speciality? Now, when we are going to develop an interaction reform, which the Council of State is doing well, we should also look at some of these basic figures, because if you don't think you should control the specialist power, which I think the Council of State has explicitly said, it just means that you get an uncontrolled growth within parts of the health system that makes it impossible, for example. to meet the needs of this group. That means that when it comes to the allocation of professional resources, you have to be able to say no to something, and we in this room also have to be able to say no to something. Then it can't be that the message in sum of all the interpellations is that we're going to give more of everything to everyone, because then it's just going to be weak groups that get hit. I think we've been good at this in the case of psychiatry, by focusing on it, strengthened it over a decade, and we're now seeing the germ that we're going to start doing the same thing within the drug field, even if we're too short. But if we're going to succeed in the field we're talking about here, we have to make it a priority. Then we can't say that anyone who comes to a doctor, who describes that you have tenderness in the muscles, should be guaranteed an offer from a revmatologist in a very short time. Then you have to say, as the Council of State also says, that there must be those who need the specialist to take priority. It must also mean maintaining the gatekeeper’s function and saying that one who has such severe plagues as this, of course, must be secured a place with the revmatologist next week. One who needs a new hip joint replacement should, of course, be sure that the surgeon has surgery within one month. But one who has relatively slight plagues, which have normal blood tests, and there is a great likelihood that these plagues are not associated with a rheumatic disorder, but with completely different mechanisms, one has to solve the problems in other ways. It requires a health care system that is governed both politically and professionally in a way that is different from that of the market. This, I think, has been a good idea for the representative to point out when he has chaired two priority committees. I do not think the representative's pay is as good as expressing it clearly when he speaks on behalf of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e280	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this important issue. This is a group of diseases I have close knowledge of. It is of great importance to seek prompt treatment for patients with arthritis or other Revmatical Disorders. It is a prerequisite for receiving treatment, which has been developed in recent years. Rapid treatment could prevent or delay the development of the disease. Among other things, as many have been involved, medicines have been developed in recent times that can slow disease development. The waiting time, to which the interpellant has referred, is unacceptably long and can be over-exposed by pain and stiffness as well as deterioration in quality of life. Revmaticians do not receive adequate treatment until a diagnosis is made. Equal access to treatment across the country is a very important principle in our healthcare. It is regrettable, as the interpellant also made visible in his post, that the waiting time for treatment is also different, depending on where you live in the country. Revmaticians are a group of patients with chronic diseases. These fit poorly into continuous rounds with more efficiency in our hospitals. The problem for the chroniclers is that no matter how well they are treated in a hospital, they will most likely appear again after a certain period of time. They won't be treated quickly either. Often the disease image is complex, and it is uncertain which treatment works, whether there are medications, pain relief, operations or perhaps combinations of different types of treatment. Furthermore, there is a particular need for rehabilitation after treatment. Many will need more rehabilitation. At times when hospitals point to keeping budgets, there is a cut in the offers to chronically ill monks. We've seen that multiple times. Many of these are also not prioritised through the ‘Repatriation Back’ scheme, as it is a shortcut to rehabilitation only for people who are sick of work. A lot of people can't stand in that line. It is to chronically ill that policy priorities are necessary when there may be reason to fear that health services are managed on the basis of what is economically profitable from a narrow perspective, which many people have experienced. There is a need to strengthen treatment in several areas, both at specialist level and at municipal level. There must be sufficient competence to provide proper treatment, including to ensure good training in the local environment. There must be good systems for the exchange of knowledge between hospitals and municipalities in order to ensure a good offer for patients. Pool cleaning is a measure of how to relieve the symptoms of several arthritis patients. Unfortunately, there are very many patients who lack such an offer in our country today. There are several people who have noted that the provision of rehabilitation is too poor in many places in the country. As a former Minister of Labour and Inclusion, the Council of State also knows that this could lead to the death of revenmatics. 33 pst. payments for disability pensions in Norway are made to persons with muscle and skeletal disorders. These are also recipients of 40 pst. of refurbishment and rehabilitation aid and as much as 46 pst. of sick pay paid. These are numbers from 2006. Another relationship I would like to mention, such as: The Norwegian Revmatikerbund has been deeply concerned about the conversion of physiotherapy funding in the context of the year’s budget. Even before a month has passed of this year, we are told that the physiotherapy service in many municipalities is under pressure and that chroniclers are being deprived. I hope that the Council of State will follow this development closely, and contribute to the not-for-the-counter and others with chronic disease being affected by the change that the Government recently initiated. I'm very concerned about this. We have a good national competence center at the Diakon home. This should probably be strengthened, as the representative of Nesvik was also involved. Consideration should be given to bringing together perhaps even more expertise here if it appears fragmented today, not least in terms of rehabilitation, follow-up and guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e301	It is an important and serious topic for many we are discussing today. I will start from the hearing of the Committee on 31 October and the recording of the Norwegian Revmatikerbund. In their recording, it says: ‘To get a Revmatical Disease is to get a new job that lasts for life. Too many are unfit for work, but could have been in work if they had received early diagnosis, necessary treatment, rehabilitation and training.» I have been a member of the Health and Care Committee for three to four months. I have a bad feeling that the health care system is not helping enough the large groups of chronic diseases, among other things. osteoarthritis patients. It is bad to hear and read from the hearing with the Revmatikerbundet that they believe we are moving resources from the elderly to the younger patients, and from those who only need help to maintain quality of life, to those who can become workers, and also that only half of those who are applying for state treatment travel to warmer strokes get this – the rest does not. As I see it now, I believe that we should have the advice and duty to help those who are worthy of need, both to get to work and to get the best possible life. We as a society should have the advice and duty to help everyone with the best medicine. I am pleased that the new priority guides will contribute to better treatment for arthritis patients in general, and especially for those who belong to areas where the offer has been the worst. It is positive that there have been so good results from treatment with new drugs – incredibly positive when a reader about the difference from just 20 to 30 years ago to today. It looks like it's a whole new world. Many become almost symptom free, and joint damage can stop. There's a few that are going to be completely fresh. I would like to stress that the effect is best – we see that in everything we read – when the diagnosis is made early. It is important that treatment with the best and most expensive medicines is started early, before it has been damaged by important joints. Then it's important to continue researching, both to help them as today's drugs work poorly, and to find drugs with less side effects. It's very negative when a weakened immune system takes away some of the health benefits of the new drugs we've been given. Arthritis is, to a large extent, a female disease. We don't know much about why it's like this. It should have been unnecessary, but I still want to say that it is important that the effort on research related to treatment, rehabilitation and mastering must not be anything less because it is more of a female disease than a human disease. Finally, I would like to say that after reading the history of the treatment of arthritis patients, I would like to highlight the importance of the voluntary sector – such as the Sanity Association and the Norwegian Revmatikerbund – that raises important issues. In my own Inland Region, the Revmatism Hospital of the Sanitation Association at Lillehammer is one of the lighthouses. So here we see the important interaction we have between the voluntary sector and the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e329	As others have said, it's an important theme we're talking about. I thought I'd use some of the numbers that the interpellant was in on. He said that between 0.5 pst. and 1 pst. of the adult population is the frame of arthritis. It doesn't matter that much when we talk about percentages. It's only when we convert it into actual numbers that we get an understanding of how many we're talking about. If we turn this into numbers, it's 45,000 people in Norway who are the victims of arthritis. That means that the same number are the frames of arthropod in Norway as it lives in the largest city in Northern Ireland, Bodø. So we're talking about a large group. Arthritis is a serious chronic disease that causes a lot of pain and suffering for those who are affected. It is therefore important that measures strengthen the individual’s ability to live a good life on their own premises. Such measures are profitable for society, for they encourage us to become self-helpers and to be economically active. Not least, it is very important for all of us to participate in our professional life. Having a job to do is perhaps the most health-promoting tool in a society. It's unimaginable that the waiting time for Revmatology is so long. It is unworthy to wait for such an arrangement, as we heard, for perhaps three years. It's too long. The Council of State was in its intervention on – not surprising – the interaction reform. It's an important area where the Council of State and Government will bet. One believes that better interaction can contribute both to faster and better distribution and treatment of those affected by arthritis and other rheumatic disorders. Because there are other large groups besides those who get arthritis; when it only applies to those who get arthritis, we might talk about 300,000 in Norway. I agree that interaction is important, and I believe that the decision-maker will have a more important role to play. He currently has an important role for all patients and, of course, also for this patient group, but I believe that there is a potential for better and more systematic cooperation between the permanent, revmatologist or the Revmatological Department of Hospitals, rehabilitation, which many people have had in mind, and the total provision of municipal health and social services. But it's like system is one side of this thing. Perhaps the most important thing when we talk about this type of disease — often a little invisible disease — is that these patients are really being seen, and that they are really being taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e344	The interpellant picks up a patient group who has a serious illness with severe pain and severe suffering. This patient group feels today that it does not get as good an offer as they had a few years ago. It is serious in itself that it does not go forward, and that patients do not get a better and better offer every year that goes, but that they actually perceive it that the competence of professionals to treat them is being weakened, and that they have longer waiting time and greater uncertainty as to whether they are receiving treatment in time. In terms of waiting time for investigation, there was one thing we had up in an interpellation here a little over a week ago, and it's a problem in itself. So even if you've got a priority guide, it doesn't reveal them with the most serious suffering. I referred to an example in the interpellation, where a radiological institute had looked at 160 cancer cases, and where actually half of them could not be detected until a diagnosis was made. So it's only after an investigation is done that you can say when it's right to apply treatment. It is also the case that prevention is very important. Prevention is also about preventing the development of a disease. So for those who are in an early phase of a disease, it's very important to get a diagnosis and get treatment quickly so that we don't get more and more with advanced disease plagues. Olav Gunnar Ballo said the market can't control it. No, the market cannot control, but at least the needs of patients can control the way our healthcare system is to be, and the priority of patients by putting them far down on a waiting list is not the right way to give priority to what to do for public funds. Training and rehabilitation are important, and we have had a situation in which there are more and more young people undergoing training, and there are more and more new patient groups, including those in treatment. In the context of diabetes and obesity, which require training, it would be appropriate to increase the training provision. It has not happened to the extent necessary. This has led to elderly and very often revenmatics becoming losers in the fight for these places. They are not profitable patients in the sense that they are going back to work and doing good there. But there are patients with great suffering, who have a great need to manage themselves and get a better daily life. ‘More of all to everyone’ – no, that’s not what you are asking for in this debate, and that’s not what you were asking for in the previous debate on waiting time. But you ask that you take advantage of the possibilities you have within Health Norway in a reasonable way, and that you not trick the patients by putting them far down on a waiting list, maybe hoping that they will pay for the treatment themselves, or that they will get so sick that they can't make use of the treatment. It is possible to use the health funds we use today, in a completely different way, both to prevent the development of disease and to give the seriously ill a much better offer for the same money. In the case of a centre of expertise for the seriously ill revenators, it should be interesting to consider whether there can be a better solution, which will provide a better offer and, in the next range, be health-economically correct, which is also important. Giving people a better health and a better offer gives people a better everyday life. We're saving it in dollars and cents, and we're saving a lot of it by people doing their own thing and getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e361	I'm 100 pst. agree with the representative of Ballo that ‘more of all things to all’ is not the answer if you are constantly talking about money with ‘more’. On the other hand, there may well be a question of what is left of the money, and how to make use of the resources available, so that those who need it most receive the offer. Ballo reminded me of the prioritization studies. There were actually two messages that were very clear in both. One was that there was – and still is – a need to focus more strongly on mental health protection, because that is the part of patients that may have received the worst offer so far. The second message was about the chronicler groups, which are relatively small. Although there are many people in numbers, they are relatively small, and they are not particularly loud, and they are not the easiest ones to use television screens or other instruments to make sense. This interpolation is actually a completely logical follow-up of it. Then I must be allowed to return to the rehabilitation problem. It can't be entirely random when all – all – patient organisations that have something to do with the rehabilitation field gather outside the Stortningen when we dealt with the health budget for this year. This is because this government has created a expectation by stating that all those in need of rehabilitation will receive it, while the speech of the figures is quite unambiguous, namely that fewer and fewer of those in need of rehabilitation are actually receiving it. On 26 November last year, the Council of State replied to questions raised in the Questionnaire that: «it is too bad that we have not had rehabilitation services in Norwegian hospitals. That's why we've now used resources to build it up." The Soria Moria Declaration explains the reasons why private use should be stepped down in order to make public use of free capacity. But again, there is no free capacity in the public sector. And I haven't heard that the Council of State has ambitions to increase it, for example. by using local hospitals to focus more strongly on their offers on precisely the chronicler groups. Then it may not be so strange that the market is working – again to the representative of Ballo. But today it works that way that there's a dramatic increase in the purchase of private health insurance, and there's a dramatic increase in full self-payment from those who can afford it, while those who can't afford it have to wait longer and longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e377	Only a few comments from my side also based on the debate that has taken place. I think we all agree in this room that those who have severe rheumatic plagues, arthropods, are a patient group that is important to get the right treatment at the right time. Then we always have within the Norwegian health care system, as I think the representative Ballo pointed out in a good way, a discussion of what is the right capacity. When assessing what is the right capacity, it is, of course, a question of resources — economic, professional and human — in relation to the influx of treatment demands. That's all the time the challenge we're facing. What, in addition to the relationship between resources and inflows at all times, will be crucial is that patients should be given priority, almost regardless of resources. Some are more important than others. You never manage to build a health care system that is at such a level that everyone can get treatment for everything immediately. That must be a priority. We have a lot of work to do in relation to better priorities. I have to say that I am very surprised when I hear the chairman of the committee swinging up here with what, in his view, is obviously a good point, when he says, "How can a reference to the priority counsellor when people have not been investigated?" – The supervisor is not just about what will happen after an investigation, but also about the supervisor: What characterises arthritis spaces with severe symptoms? What does a characteristic disease picture of referring to the specialist health service reveal that they are most in need of the most rapid investigation and thus the fastest treatment? Nor do I believe that the committee leader believes that we should build up a revmatological capacity in Norwegian hospitals that means that anyone referred to for muscle and skeletal disorders, for example. within 14 days shall be treated. That must be a priority. It is necessary to establish a guide which is also applicable to the decision-maker and which is applicable to the person receiving the referral, so that the person receiving the referral is able to prioritise, so that they are treated with the greatest need as a matter of urgency. Therefore, this type of priority guide is so important, because it will need to be prioritised almost independently of treatment capacity. And then it has to be prioritised right. Because I fully agree with Mr Ballo that everyone cannot get everything at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e395	The debate on substance is then closed. End one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e412	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e430	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e448	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e456	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map. In Case No. 1 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e466	There is a vote on proposals by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the Odelsting meeting on 8 January 2009: ‘The ruling asks the Government to draw up clear rules relating to the collection of patient records. The rules should require disclosure of the purpose of obtaining such information, limitations on time or content and who should be able to request patient records.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e485	There is a vote on proposals by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent from the Odelsting meeting on 8 January 2009: ‘The Government requests that clear rules be laid down as to which documents may be required, who may require them, whether they may be removed or copied and what should be done with documents/copys after use.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e504	There is a vote on proposals by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 January 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing a quarantine period in cases where it is evident that there has been organised social security fraud and in cases where there is a robust judgment that serious social security abuse has occurred. It is requested that the Government return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-20.ana.ud462e527	There is no record available. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
