ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e98	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e107	The President proposes that three presidents be elected for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Sven Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Svein Roald Hansen and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e117	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the evening meeting be set at 1 p.m. 17. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e148	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e159	So depending on this hall is on the yield of the fund we're discussing here today, the hall should be more full than it is, but that's the way it is. This is going to be a matter that nevertheless has the importance it deserves. I would say that this might be one of the most important documents of the year that this room is discussing, precisely because it has a great impact on our government finances, and because there is increasing attention to how this fund operates, also from areas beyond our own borders. I want to give the government credit for having now begun to present this as a separate message. It provides a good basis for a broad discussion in the Stortinge on the fund's objectives, and not least to reflect on what happened in the last year. If we take it backwards, it is clear that 2008 became a very special year also for the State pension fund, with a significant loss – if not realised, then on paper – of course in line with the general international economic development, which also affected the management of this fund in 2008. It's easy to catch up for one year at a time in these kinds of cases. There is reason to recall that both returns and risks need to be seen in a long-term perspective, even when discussing the loss of the year last year — unrealised losses. It must also be possible in the future in relation to the framework that that pension fund should have for its investments. Let me commend the Government for choosing to go into a separate environmental investment programme. It is in line with what the Christian People's Party promoted two years ago in its own Document No. Eight proposals. There we also promoted a proposal that we should withdraw from investment in tobacco production. It has also been followed up by the Government. We are very pleased with that. So you'll see from the point of view that the Christian People's Party proposes the establishment of an investment programme for investments in companies in developing countries, and the majority are positive about this in comments. We're happy about that. I also notice that when he comes to Norway this week, it is one of the themes of the World Bank leader: how to use this type of fund also to invest in developing countries without losing sight of the fact that there should also be a return on that type of investment, in line with the framework programme and the framework for the management of our fund. So finally from my page a few words about the result for 2008. It is weak, of course, in line with the international economic cycle we have had in 2008. But what's another moment, which we can't come from, is that the so-called active management of the fund has given an extra loss of NOK 88 billion compared to the reference index it's measured against. So, if you had a so-called passive management, the loss you didn't realize, fortunately, would be $88 billion less. I also feel that the Government considers this to be so serious that it will assess, as it is called, the entire active administration and bring a case of its own to the Stortinget during 2010. The opposition wants to move forward a little bit faster. We would like to have the matter presented during this year. We will also minimise the active management as far as is practicable until such an overall evaluation is carried out. I fully agree that this is not something you do ad hoc. This is to be taken seriously. But it is a serious cross of thought, not least because this fund must have great legitimacy in the population. Then it is important to have a framework and an investment philosophy that also reflects the fact. Five minutes is too short. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has alone, and that we have with other parties. In addition, I would like to inform you that we support the minority's proposal in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e180	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e185	The Christian People's Party promotes a proposal in which they ask the Government to initiate its own assessment of the activities of companies in Congo, assessed against the ethical guidelines of the State Pension Fund - Foreign. The theme addressed by the Christian People's Party is important. However, the proposal concerns a major theme, and it is the activity of companies in conflict zones. Would it not be more appropriate to deal with it by starting a general review, which could provide a good basis for assessing different situations against? Would we not risk making assessments less consistent on a case-by-case basis if individual situations were to be assessed on a more ad hoc basis on an ongoing basis? Wouldn't we also be able to risk that such a procedure would provide little guidance and not least little learning in other matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e190	Some of the background to the proposal is that earlier this year the Council of State asked the Council which assesses such ethical issues to go separately into companies linked to the Middle East. At the same time, we know that the conflict that unfolds in Congo is of such a nature that it is the raw materials that are the subject of many of the conflict issues. There may therefore be good reason to fear that international companies, which can also invest in the fund, have significant interests in them and can contribute to the deterioration of this conflict. That is why, in our opinion, there can be a basis for going directly into that conflict area, just as the Government has asked in relation to the Middle East, but in general I agree that this should be done on a general basis. But there is, as the Government has also found out, reason for exceptions in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e195	I would like to thank the rapporteur for doing a good and thorough job on this big message. I would also like to thank you for a good cooperation, which I believe has led to a good result also in connection with this big business communication. It is quite right, as the Christian People's Party says, that in the context of the policy on the management of the State pension fund and the ethical guidelines, SV and the Christian People's Party have been united. It's quite right, as the Christian People's Party says, that in the process of the Great Britain, which we now receive annually, we have made sure to record the recordings that have come from organizations and other environments to make sure that it is discussed further. I think that is a good way to involve democratic forces in Norway, so that we get the best possible management. My question is: Does the Christian People's Party agree that in the case of the administration of the State Pension Fund, the Christian People's Party is significantly closer to the Advance Party, which has divergent views almost across the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e204	I wondered when the question would come. To put it that way, I think it was liberating finally to have a line change with the representative Holmås without the word ‘cash support’ being mentioned once. There were many points of light in this line from the representative Holmås' side. I can only confirm that I feel a strong relationship between the Christian People's Party and the SV in relation to the management of a fund, because we do it on behalf of the population. This is not any investment program that you run at random. This requires great legitimacy in the population. That is why I am pleased that there is so much agreement in the setting. I would also like to say that it has been possible to get some adjustments from the majority during the work on the position. Since the representative Holmås mentioned the word democracy, I also think it is worth thinking about in this connection, that it has actually been possible to get something across blocks. In fact, in the case of the Progress Party, they were difficult for the ethical guidelines in their time. Maybe that time will come again. Who knows?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e215	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e218	Initially, I would also like to commend the rapporteur-in-Office, Hans Olav Syversen, for an orderly way of exercising the Rules of Procedure. I would say that we spend too little of our valuable speaking time giving praise when it's earned and someone should have praise. In very many areas it has been possible to find common notes, where both the government parties and all or part of the opposition are involved. Then it's true that there are areas where opposition parties with varying degrees of support have different proposals. It is also worth noting that in many important areas the Progress Party is alone on both comments and a number of proposals. So move on to the real content of the government message. I want to start by focusing on the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund – abroad. The evaluation process has been under way in 2008. What is now being presented on the basis of concrete proposals has been achieved on the basis of extensive work and not least a comprehensive background. The exposure has been large. For example, more than 50 national and foreign hearing bodies have made extensive recordings. I have the impression that unfortunately this work has drowned a little in other issues relating to the State pension fund, not least because 2008 has been a challenging year as a result of the financial crisis. The Ethical Guidelines were unanimously endorsed in the United Kingdom in 2004 and have since gained considerable recognition in the country and abroad. Many have shown what Norway is doing in this area, but we are not going to be too self-sufficient. I think, through good ethical practice, we can make others follow. Through the communication on the State pension fund, which we are now dealing with, the Government is putting up a broader and even more active focus on ethical management. It is suggested that the environment, social conditions and good corporate governance should be more integrated as important factors throughout the management of the Fund. So far, the two most important measures have been an active ownership exercise in the companies we are in, and exclusion of companies from the investment universe of the fund. And of course, we're going to keep doing that. I am happy and proud of the concrete measures that the red-green government is now putting up with. This applies not least to the exclusion of tobacco-producing companies from the portfolio, the establishment of an observation list as a new measure against companies in the border zone for the extraction and strengthening of concrete ownership, by formulating several expectations documents, both in the environmental field and in the corporate governance area. Procedures shall also be established for the re-entry into the portfolio of companies that have been excluded. Climate has been an extremely important area of work, both for the Government and for the hearing bodies. Both expectations documents on the climate strategy of companies and a broad investigation addressing the climate challenges in financial markets should be initiated and how investors should act on this basis. An environmental programme shall be established to target investments aimed at achieving a clear environmental benefit, such as climate-friendly energy, energy efficiency improvement, carbon capture/storage, water technology, etc. Then I record that the Progress Party will not have more stringent ethical guidelines, and that the Progress Party and the Right will not agree with the majority's remark to exclude shares from tobacco producers from the fund's investment universe. So over to two other areas, which I expect will be at the heart of today's debate. It is the development of the fund's portfolio as a result of the financial crisis and issues of active and passive management. There is no reason to suggest that 2008 was a bad year for the State pension fund and the worst year since the fund was established. Developments have clearly become ‘some smears’ as a result of the international financial crisis. It also says something when one in the international stock markets has not experienced a weaker return for a single year than one experienced last year. If we look at the fund's return measured in international currency, the foreign part's return was over 23 pst. i minus last year. It is also part of the picture that the value of the fund increased by NOK 256 billion in 2008. The increase is linked to a weaker price and, in particular, to the introduction of petroleum revenues, while the return, as is known, fell sharply. Then I would like to stress that the state is a long-term investor, and experience has paid long-term and patient investors well to take risks in times of major market turmoil. One important element is that we invest with our own money. We don't invest with borrowed money. Many investors are forced to sell when prices are low. It's not the Norwegian state. It's said that short-term owners have short-term thoughts, and that it's the opposite of the long-term owners. Yes, it is that the country has long-term thoughts about the State pension fund – abroad. In 2008, the SPU had a strong increase in ownership in international markets, at almost 0.8 p.p., compared with 2007. This growing ownership of enterprises worldwide could generate future profits from listed companies. The active administration has over time focused on and criticised both politically and mediatically. I think it's important that we bring with us the history when we go into that debate. Until 2007, there were nine years of positive returns compared to the return on the reference portfolio. Then there has been a smaller return in the active government, especially in 2008, where more people have been involved. Many critics, including in political circles, have argued that the negative return in 2008 is lost money, and that politicians have wasted much of Norway’s oil wealth. It is wrong to say that the money is lost. Most of it is unrealized losses. Only several years in advance will we be able to say whether the active administration has given a positive return. However, we should be humble in this situation, and both the Bank of Norway itself and the Ministry have taken several measures to improve risk management. The international financial crisis has revealed many areas in which legislation needs to be strengthened or made more robust. Things can change quickly. Not least, we look at it from the State pension fund – abroad. The fund had, as mentioned earlier, a minus return of more than 23 pst. in 2008, and the active administration generated a minus return of 3,4 p.p., measured in international currency. Also in the first quarter of this year, the fund had some negative figures, but when we look at the second quarter, the development has been significantly better, and one should not be any great genius or rocket scientist to see that a positive contribution from the active government can be expected in the second quarter. I don't want to dimension this more up than to say that this is a positive and joyful trend. The sharp criticism from some teams that we have lost over 600 billion kroner on the active administration seems – as far as I can see – to have stopped anything. At least it will be exciting to see if the trend continues beyond the year. The risk framework for active management of the State pension fund — abroad has been strongly focused in the public debate. Here, as is known, there is a quantitative framework for the active management of Norway’s Bank, with an upper limit of so-called expected relative volatility of 1.5 percentage points. This limit says something about how far from the expected average return on the market we will accept that the fund is. As the Governor briefed us at the hearing, and as we were informed by the Ministry, the risk measurement system showed that in some cases the risk associated with the active management in the fourth quarter of 2008 exceeded the relative volatility limit, which is set at 1.5 pst. In view of this, the Ministry of Finance has stepped up its reporting obligation and has asked for ongoing reporting of developments in this field. The explanation from Norway’s Bank is that the event must be seen in the context of events in the financial markets and large locked-in positions in the interest rate portfolio. It is also underlined that the exceedance was not triggered by certain individual actions by the bank. It is also stated that the expected relative volatility has now fallen below the limit again, and according to the quarterly report of Norway’s Bank, which came on 20 May of this year, we can read that this was 0.78 percentage points at the end of the first quarter. With regard to the situation, I feel that both the Norwegian Bank itself and not least the Department and the Council of State are taking important and necessary action with regard to weaknesses in the system. The Bank of Norway acknowledges, as mentioned above, that the financial crisis posed major challenges in terms of risk management and risk management, and sees weaknesses in the implementation of the investment strategy. A number of measures have been launched by the Bank of Norway to address the weaknesses, for example through a reinforced follow-up to capital management and also to the bond portfolio, where the problems have been greatest and the results are weakest. This has not been made as clear in the public debate. The Ministry takes important action both in the short and longer term in relation to active management. This is done through both more new and, not least, more stringent requirements. In the near future, the Ministry will issue a draft comprehensive legislation at the hearing. New legislation on the management of the Fund is provided for as from 1 January 2010. It is also announced that an external review will be carried out in which specific issues relating to active management will be subject to a comprehensive assessment. The results of this review will be presented in the spring of 2010. So it's taking hold in the short term, and it's taking hold of a slightly longer time horizon. In my opinion, it is necessary to put in place measures that can take place more quickly than until the time when we have an external review completed. It makes sense, in my view, to have a two-stage process in relation to this issue. We know that by sending a case out to the hearing, it can take many months for a person to get it back and the department can start working on the matter. With this, I recommend Stortinget to join the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e275	In 2007, the Government decided to increase the share of the State Pension Fund – Foreign from 40 to 60 p.m. The main reason for this was that the return over time would increase. At the same time, however, the rule of action remained unchanged. The action rule is set to 4 pst of the estimated return. My questions to the representative are: Why did the government not also increase the return and the rule of action – it remained at 4 pst. – when they thought that the return would increase when the share increased? Didn't believe the government on 4 pst. the return? Or is the rule of action irrelevant in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e282	Let me first say that when we decided to increase the share, we increased it to 60 pst. But at the turn of the year it was only up to 50 pst. Then I also see that the Progress Party has made a point that they want to invest in property. It has not been any lucrative either. Nor has anything been lucrative about the bond issue. This has been a troubled year. With regard to the rule of action and the rate of return, it is such that it stands firm. We use less in good times, and then we use more in bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e291	The representative spent a good deal of his time on the active administration. He rejoiced that it had been a positive development in the last few months, and called it a positive trend. I have doubts as to whether a positive trend can be called, when we know that the active administration as a whole has not given a positive return for the fund since it was established in 1998. I am pleased that the Government has taken the initiative to review the active administration and asks the question whether we should continue with it. However, the parties to the Government have chosen not to address a proposal put forward by the opposition, namely that the active administration should be limited to what is necessary for strictly commercial reasons, until such time as the assessment is available. My question is, why have the government parties not supported this publishing house from the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e300	First, I want to just refer to what I said in my post. This is a two-way process. I think the most important thing we can do now is get a proper review of both the benefits and the disadvantages of active management, because there are both the benefits and the disadvantages of it. For example, we have had nine years in which there has been more return, and there were several who claimed that we were too little active in relation to the management of the fund. We then meet with an open mind. I also have my critical comments on part of the active management. But I think we're going to have a real round, and then the Storting will get it to spring next year, and then we're going to draw some conclusions in a very difficult area. We also have a system at the Bank of Norway. In my opinion, it would be unfavorable to reject it before we were absolutely sure of what we would conclude with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e307	Alf E. Jakobsen spent a lot of time on the active versus passive management. I understand that there is no conclusion right now. I agree with that. But if Alf E. Jakobsen is looking at the question today, what would he say is the strongest appeal to active management?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e312	The representative of the Seven now wants me out deep water. But it is clear that I have asked questions about whether we have had sufficient protective systems to capture the risk management also in the active part. In the fourth quarter of last year, we saw that there were things that made it exceedances when we got into special situations. I don't want to draw any conclusion that we're going to do one or the other. My recommendation was that the representative Syversen would rather have to draw a too bastant conclusion. This swings. We've seen that in March-April-May this year. We're going to have to take the time to help. I don't think we ever get into zero percent and have a purely passive management. I think that's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e319	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e322	First, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. I would like to stress that the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party actually agree on a number of points regarding the management message of the year – for the very first time, as far as I know. The fourth year’s management of the Staten Pensjonfond – abroad was disastrously poor. I'm a little surprised that there's only one journalist present in this room today, because these are sensational numbers. 633 billion kroner were lost. I call it lost. You can lose as much as you can lose less. Then I'd rather say like Øystein Stray Spätalen: I calculate what I have, and what I can sell it for. Today has a NOK 633 billion less than one had last year, per. 1 January. It's going to be 25 pst. of the management capital — it is gone. Although this is not entirely comparable, to put things in perspective, I would like to remind you that the total additional consumption of the Progress Party over its alternative state budgets on tax relief and investment in infrastructure, transport, defence equipment, police equipment and research equipment for universities, over the 12-year lifetime of the Oil Fund, has been around. DKK 210 billion. So for this sum, we would have a more modern infrastructure, a more competitive business and about. 150 billion more in private welfare. But the Progress Party also understands that 2008 was an exceptionally bad year for investment in financial markets, and we understand that the fund lost money. We can therefore also understand the frustration of the Governor when he said that there was no hiding anywhere. What we do not accept, however, is that the Minister of Finance is trying to minimize the financial loss that the Government has inflicted on the Norwegian people. It's itself a scandal. After she had presented such disastrous figures, the Progress Party had expected a far more humble finance minister than we have experienced. We had actually assumed that the Government would now listen to the Advance Party's repeated warnings against the fund's risk profile, but unfortunately we experience the opposite. Instead, the Minister of Finance takes on the role of the speculator and explains and defends each and every lost crown with the fund's long-term investment horizon. The slogan ‘when in trouble — double’ should not govern any administrators, and that is in any case not how we should manage our common wealth. The Bank of Norway has the possibility, by way of regulation, to operate so-called active management. It implies that the fund's managers are allowed to attempt to make investments that yield better returns than the average in the market. The assumption is that Norway’s Bank does not exceed a total risk limit — expected relative volatility — of 1.5 pst. The deviation framework applies to the overall framework of the Fund, allowing the Bank of Norway to choose active management of all or part of the Fund, as long as the overall risk framework of the Fund does not exceed 1,5 pst. However, the Norwegian Bank breached this risk limit in October 2008. This is mainly due to the fact that the SPU made very unfavourable investments in interest-bearing papers, and that the SPU was holding bonds that could not be traded in the market over time. The negative return on active management for 2008 was DKK 88 billion. That's $18,000 per. North. So this is not a loss due to the general decline in the market, but the money we have lost because the investments that were made were worse than the average in the market. This is the money we would not have lost if we had put the money in a banknote box. This is an incredible amount of money. Where have the media really been in this process? This implies that the average annual lower rate of return from the active administration has been 0,04 pst. However, this figure does not include the costs associated with such management, so the actual annual lower rate of return has been 0.13 pst. In figures, the loss associated with the active management over the lifetime of the fund amounts to DKK 64,5 billion over 12 years. This amount is equal to the values of the State's shares in Telenor, DnB NOR, Kongsberg Gruppe and Aker Solutions. Following the presentation of the annual results for the SPU, a number of professionals have expressed themselves with scepticism to SPU’s active management. These have claimed that active management over time will not yield better returns than index-based management. The available evidence confirms these claims. Some have argued that SPU has its own responsibility for active management because of its size. This is the Progress Party disagrees with, and underlines that there are funds with higher administrative capital than the SPU that have chosen index-based management. However, the Progress Party recognises that there can be arguments in favour of active management continuing, and we therefore support the Government's informed review of the benefits and disadvantages of such management. However, there is no reason for the Government to use a full year to elaborate on these arguments. An overall opposition therefore proposes that the Government speed up the review and present it as its own case for the autumn. An overall opposition also asks the Government to set a framework for the active administration which limits such management to what is strictly necessary for commercial reasons until this assessment has been carried out. Active management incurs much higher administrative costs than index-based management. The Progress Party is therefore surprised that Norway’s Bank chooses to report its results before costs. Such a practice would be totally unimaginable in any other industry. The Progress Party therefore promotes, together with the Right, a proposal that results in the SPU will be reported in the future according to costs under Global Investment Performance Standards – GIPS. The proposals promoted by the Progress Party through the management communication of the year have three main objectives: to reduce the risk the fund is exposed to in order to better facilitate Norwegian industry and business to make each individual manager more responsible for the risk to which he or she exposes the people's savings to These changes will more closely address the Fund’s objective of achieving the highest possible management at moderate risk. Over time, there has been a wide divergence between the Government's words and the Government's actions regarding the risk exposure in the management of the SPU. This is due, inter alia, to: the following conditions: Investments in emerging markets started in 2000. Investments in interest-bearing papers without a State guarantee started in 2002. In 2007, the equity exposure increased from 40 pst. to 60 pst. Investments in small limited liability companies started in 2007. Investments in unlisted shares started in 2007. Over the period 2001-2008, the ethical guidelines have become increasingly more comprehensive. All of this increases the risk. The government’s challenge and dilemma is that it tries to appear as a serious investor with a high return and moderate risk focus, while on autopilot it follows the investment councils that come from those environments that have a self-interest in expanding the investment universe. The Government insists that such changes in the management strategy can be characterised as risk spreading, but they are in reality increased risk exposure. This is due, inter alia, to: the location, size, volume of turnover and volatility of the investment objects. Yes, you obviously spread the risk if you choose to play horse, football and lotto at the same time. However, whether such a strategy reduces risk exposure is more doubtful. The Progress Party is saddened that in 2007 the Government got rid of all those who argued to increase its share from 40 p.m. to 60 pst. We believe it was an unwise and risky decision. Not only was the time completely wrong, but the modified strategy contributed to an unnecessary increase in the Fund's constant risk exposure. We are therefore re-promoting our 2007 proposal to change the SPU investment strategy. However, we assume that Norway’s Bank takes account of market developments before this is implemented – that is part of the proposal. The Party of Progress notes that the Government chooses to interpret the ethical guidelines more and more closely. So once again, we want to stress that ethics per. definition is a subjective assessment basis that allows for selective and inconsistent exclusion mechanisms. The party of progress does not share the Government’s vision of the practice of the ethical guidelines. Rigid application of the ethical guidelines reduces the fund's investment universes, contributes to increasing the fund's risk and reduces the fund's potential return. Not least, this Government's exclusion from the world's leading defence technology companies. The Progress Party also notes that the Government is increasingly complying with the demands and wishes of small stakeholder organisations aimed at limiting the investment potential of the Pension Fund, thus reducing the fund’s return potential. Despite the government's assurances of the opposite, we find that the government's excessive mix of ethics and shop is increasingly perceived as foreign policy signals. The Progress Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the enterprises currently excluded from the State pension fund – Foreign investment portfolio based on rigorous practices of the ethical guidelines.’ We are facing a situation where the Government first incorporates all the administrative councils that come from leading management environments, and then listen to advice from clever lobbyists who want to exclude more and more products, industries and businesses from SPU's investment universes. Overall, this fund increases its risk profile. This year, the Government chooses to exclude tobacco companies from the portfolio of investments. This is justified by the fact that tobacco used as intended leads to sickness and death. No good news from there, in other words. However, in his narrow quest to appear ethically correct, the Government forgets two important issues. Firstly, tobacco provides hundreds of millions of people with pleasure and well-being in everyday life — it is also an ethical choice — and secondly, tobacco cultivation gives millions of poor farmers a living. But such matters are obviously not included in the Government's ethical accounts. They kind of don't fit in. If this had not been the last administrative message this Government is sending out, we'd be able to expect the exclusion of industries that produce sweets – for what do you really want with that, you get holes in your teeth? And gambling services are creating sad family feuds. Alcohol causes liver damage, and there's no way that people can find out when they're drunk. Publishers that produce unnecessary literature – what about it, it just steals the time for people? Or what about companies that produce products that contribute to increased CO2 emissions – then we can let go of investments in car manufacturers and aircraft manufacturers? And what about businesses without 40 pst. representation of women in the board of directors, or enterprises that do not have any management minorities? Or what about climate changes like the oil and gas industry? No, by the way, it hadn't happened, because then we had no money to invest at all! The Progress Party promoted in its 2008 and 2009 Alternative State Budget proposals that Norway establish a fund in developing countries with the aim of contributing to the creation of sustainable business. We record that this idea has gradually been supported by other parties. A little later today, the Stortinget will debate St.meld. No 13, and then the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will propose the creation of a fund of approximately DKK 10 billion for this purpose. At the same time, the Progress Party notes that the Government intends to establish an investment programme of DKK 20 billion linked to environmental investment opportunities – a programme proposed by the Government to be linked to ‘sustainable investments’ and to include unlisted companies and technologies in emerging markets. The Progress Party therefore chooses to interpret it in such a way that there is broad political consensus on such a fund initiative or programme. However, the Progress Party considers that there is a need for the Government to clarify the premises for any fund or investment programme. We therefore want to clarify whether the Government wants both an investment programme and a fund for sustainable business, and in that case what mandates and focus such a programme or fund should have. In this context, it should be clarified whether such a fund/investment programme should aim at achieving financial returns, reducing environmental and climate emissions, helping more generally, helping to strengthen local business, or being a doorway for Norwegian energy companies and Norwegian technology. Furthermore, it is appropriate to clarify whether such a bet should be made as part of the State pension fund – Foreign with the mandates granted to SPU, or whether such a fund should be separated by the SPU and, where appropriate, given other mandates. As the proposal for an investment programme now exists, the Progress Party will choose to go against the programme, not least because we are sceptical of the Minister of Finance's assurances that the programme will yield at least as good returns as other parts of the fund, as she stated in a debate with me in the News of the Day, Athens, because it would be thought that investors were in a position to invest in these programmes. The refusal of the Council of State to establish its own fund for the purpose also underpins our scepticism. The Party considers that a possible investment programme in developing countries should address a number of issues. Not least, such a programme should be able to promote the interests of Norway as an energy nation. The Progress Party is therefore promoting an alternative proposal. Financial management has always been a very lucrative industry to work in. For this reason, we find many of the country's best paid within just capital management. State pension fund – Foreigners have also established a similar remuneration system. The average basic salary is approx. One million. kr, while the bonus payments may be the multiple. Norway's Bank stated that even in a year when the fund lost NOK 633 billion, it was paid approx. 20 bonuses of over 2 million. kr. Norway’s Bank is by no means a payroll in the industry, but at the same time, SPU differs from other capital management precisely because the capital it manages is transferred automatically on the basis of Norway’s profits on oil and gas sales. In other words, an administrator in Norway’s Bank does not need to spend time or effort on the least attractive part of the job, namely to raise investment capital in the market. Thus, a job in Norway’s Bank Investment Management, NBIM, becomes in many ways the dream job of every medium-sized manager, with guaranteed minimum income and large bonus payments if investments do better than the reference index. The Progress Party considers such gold-plated wage and bonus payments to be unreasonable and believes that each administrator must be more financially liable for the risk he or she takes with the Norwegian people's savings. The Progress Party considers that there should be as far as possible a convergence of interests between the owners of the capital and the managers. Ideally, therefore, a bonus program should have both an upside and a downside. The Progress Party therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Bank of Norway to enter into working arrangements with its administrators for the future, which also include downside bonuses. This shall also apply to external AIFMs with which NBIM agrees.’;» The Progress Party is concerned that Norway’s Bank’s management of the State pension fund — Foreign — has gradually become so extensive that it can go at the expense of the traditional tasks of Norway’s Bank. As an increasing proportion of the Bank's employees have tasks related to the management of the pension fund, there is a risk that the Bank will focus less on financial stability and analysis. The current arrangements may also result in an unfortunate link between the Ministry of Finance and the management of the Fund. The Progress Party agrees that there were good reasons why Norway’s Bank was given the task of managing the oil fund when it was established in 1996, since the central bank had some experience of debt securities and managed to keep an arm’s length distance from political detail management. Today, more and more questions arise as to whether Norway’s Bank has had sufficient capacity to follow up its investments, and many believe that the fund has grown too large for the bank. The management company of Norway’s Bank, NBIM, currently employs 217 permanent staff, of which an estimated 55 are employed by NBIM’s foreign offices in New York, London and Shanghai. 96 persons are linked to the investment activity, while the other 121 employees are linked to operational departments. Furthermore, the Bank of Norway estimates that a total of 400 external annual works are related to the management activities, and these relate exclusively to the active management. So that's where the bonuses are paid. This constitutes a significant activity, far from the core business of a central bank. This suggests that these activities should be assessed by the Bank of Norway. At the same time, it is not possible to change this structure overnight, and alternative management models and structures need to be explored and then put in place before changes can be made, if this is considered necessary. The Progress Party therefore wants an evaluation of the current management of the State pension fund — Foreign countries to identify better ways of doing this work, and we are promoting proposals to this effect. The Progress Party has argued over several years that the management of the SPU should be more effective in Norway. Just as most people take it as a matter of course that Norway manages its own natural resources, so we should also be able to manage the capital that this resource provides. Capital is now one of Norway's comparative advantage, and we should therefore be able to use our new resource to build a leading capital manager environment in Norway. The Progress Party therefore also supports proposals to this effect. The Progress Party also believes that the time is now ripe to assess whether SPU should be split into several smaller funds. Such smaller funds could have different mandates and different risk profiles. Such smaller funds could also lead to competition between the different parts of the fund. Not least, such fragmentation could reduce the risk in the fund. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the Government carry out such an investigation. As a natural extension of this mission, we also suggest that the Government investigate alternative investments for the SPU. For example, such a process could include investments in other commodities, such as gold. The main objective will be to reduce the risk to which the fund is exposed. The size is to a small extent given an independent report on whether the management of the SPU is in line with decisions and guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. Annual management messages cannot be said to be independent and therefore do not contribute to the proper performance of the control function of the Storting. The debate on last year’s management shows that a number of issues related to losses, bonuses, administrative costs and increased secrecy have been raised. In particular, there has been uncertainty as to how it has been possible for the Fund to go beyond the risk limit set by the Ministry of Finance. The Progress Party therefore supports, together with the Right and Left, the proposal that the Riksrevision carry out a study on whether the management of the SPU in 2008 has been in line with the guidelines and decisions adopted by the Stortinget. The Progress Party, together with the Left, also supports proposals to amend the Central Bank Act in order to allow the National Audit Office to carry out in practice an annual audit of the activities of the Bank of Norway in general and the management of the SPU by the Bank of Norway in particular and to report to the Stortinget in the light of this control. The Progress Party further refers to Section 9 of the National Audit Act that the Riksrevision is responsible for auditing the government accounts and all state funds. As most of the state’s capital is managed by the Bank of Norway, the Progress Party believes that an overall audit mechanism under the National Audit Office will contribute overall to the best understanding, understanding and reporting to the grantor. Furthermore, this would be best in accordance with the applicable National Audit Act and the Constitution. The Progress Party therefore promotes in the context of Ot.prp. No 58, to be discussed — probably not much debated — in Odelstinget later this week, proposals for the Riksrevision to take over the audit of the Bank of Norway. The Bank of Norway shall also have an internal audit report to the Governing Council. The internal audit shall assess the Bank's internal control, procedures and other matters relevant to the Bank's operations. President – I see it has become a new president since I started – I take this up with me the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the Innst. S. No 277, either alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e470	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e475	The Progress Party wants the funds of the Staten pension fund – abroad to be used to establish a Norwegian capital management environment. Then, in my opinion, comes the brief conclusion, because at the same time, the Progress Party criticises the use of active management and will put down all active management overnight. Then my question becomes: Is it not inconsistent to ask for special advantages for Norwegian management organisations while at the same time switching to purely index management or passive management? It would be interesting to get a clarification from the Progress Party on what they really mean. Is it cheap index management to provide the basis for stronger growth in the Norwegian administrative industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e483	The Progress Party does not wish to cease active management overnight. Then I don't think Jacobsen heard what I said. I had 20 minutes, and I spent 5 minutes talking about active management. We support the government's review of it - positive and negative sides. What we have said is that as long as active management takes place, we want Norway to benefit from having the capital we have. It makes no sense that we spend an estimated DKK 400 billion a year sending all the capital abroad for government there, with bonuses and all the jobs it creates. A capital management environment in Norway will not only have – as Kristin Halvorsen has previously suggested – some people with stress cases, dresses and ties. It will also have the consequence that we get insurance and other related industries just like you do in London, in New York and in Stockholm. It makes no sense that poor Sweden is now the leader of finance and capital management in the Nordic region, when we have the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e490	When one hears the representative Tybring-Gjeddes tyrad about the ethical guidelines, it might be timely to ask if the Progress Party when they agreed to ethical guidelines voted incorrectly. If I interpret Tybring-Gjedde correctly, he thinks, for example. It is quite possible that the Norwegian State should make money to produce nuclear weapons. If one is in favour of ethical guidelines, it is difficult to be surprised later that there are consequences, for example. for that type of company. We see that the Progress Party writes in the setting: ‘These members do not share the Government’s views on the practice of the ethical guidelines.’ It could be exciting to ask the representative Tybring-Gjedde what are the visions of the Progress Party in terms of the ethical guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e502	I thank you for the question. That's interesting. I remind the representative Lund Bergo that Norway is protected by the nuclear weapons umbrella in NATO, where we even have the first use. We're going to be protected by nuclear weapons, but we're not going to be involved in helping to produce these weapons. That's what I call double-moral and inconsistent. The party considers that there are a number of inconsistencies in ethics. The ethics we have in 2009 is completely different from that we had in 2000, and it's going to be different in 2020 – and it's completely different from the ethics of other countries. The Progress Party believes that the vision we have for ethical guidelines is that we should take corruption. But there aren't many companies that have been taken for corruption, as far as I know. We can also do child labour. It is assumed that the children working in these businesses have a different place to be – and that is not the case. For example: Bangladesh is driving the children who have lost their jobs because of Kristin Halvorsen's eagerness to be ethically correct, with child prostitution. That's what's their option. It's not school and it's nine o'clock in the evening. That's not how it works. The world is different than it looks from the Lion's Hill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e515	It could be tempting to say that presidents are coming and going, but Tybring-Gjedde is in existence. It was a comprehensive lecture and a lot to listen to. But I was also interested in the further development of the view of the Progress Party on the ethical guidelines, because it is clear that it is problematic to set criteria for this. Where are the limits going? What should be excluded? What to try to control, influence as owner, etc.? But I think it's especially if you, as an investor, on behalf of the Norwegian people, also stretch your hands in the weather and say that we don't care about this, this becomes too difficult, and you can be accused of being double moral. From that point of view, I would like to ask Tybring-Gjedde: Mr Tybring-Gjedde, for example. that we should have started buying Burmese state bonds? Should we have invested in companies that in a number of fields violate human rights, because it might be even worse for them if we don't? Where are the boundaries, seen with Tybring-Gjedde's eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e524	The Progress Party also supported the exclusion of Burmese government bonds. We point out the inconsistency in this, because there are so many other countries. Is Burma the worst country in the world? What about Iran, and what about Hugo Chávez in Venezuela? There are so many countries that violate human rights in the East and the West, but they found that Burma was politically very easy to take, because there were no protests there. That's exactly why Burma was chosen, and Burma was "in" two years ago. Or, Burma was out two years ago, you might say, and that's why everyone agreed. We have to use the international organizations: when we say that class weapons are banned, we should not invest in prohibited weapons. It's okay, and we can get involved in the issues that the government thinks you should get involved in in order to get banned. That's okay, then we're going out of them. But we can't sit on our high horse and believe that we're morally correct here. I like to take my snuff, and I'll keep going, regardless of whether Kristin Halvorsen thinks it's unethical or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e534	In the last six months, the debate on the Pension Fund has been primarily about loss and impairment, mainly as a consequence of the financial crisis. But there has also been a debate on the bonuses of administrators and on the ethical guidelines for investment. Transparency and debate are in themselves important. When, as politicians, we have agreed to move parts of the oil wealth from the bottom of the sea to the Pension Fund, we depend on people to trust that the money is well managed. Openness and debate are therefore an important key. Broad political consensus is also central. Mainly, there is broad political support – with a significant exception in the Progress Party – for the proposal put forward by the Government, which has been further developed by the case rapporteur in good cooperation with the other parties. There are of course some nuances in this, but I think it is important to underline the broad consensus – which is not a sleeping consensus. I see that there has been a lot of good debate and good judgment in relation to the further development that is now taking place in the management of the Pension Fund. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good job. It's not special that a country saves on retirement. What distinguishes Norway from almost all other countries is that in Norway, pension saving occurs primarily through government saving, while in all other countries it is largely through private pension funds. If saving through the State pension fund is to have legitimacy, we depend on the people’s confidence in how the money is managed. Without such trust, the pressure to use the money will only increase. The pressure is of course there today, but of a completely different weight if the confidence in saving is weakened. A policy where money goes much more to current consumption rather than to savings could both control the economy and lead to uncertainty about tomorrow's pensions, and shift heavy burdens on future taxpayers. There are many examples of how countries that, like Norway, have come to great wealth quickly, have put it all over the world. I believe that we basically have reason to be proud of how Norway, and also we politicians, have managed to cut off large parts of the oil revenues in recent years. But as I said, even with the size of the current pension fund, we have only financed about half of the savings pension rights. It is therefore important to continue saving. We, who are supporters of the Pension Fund and the rule of action for the use of pension funds, have a special responsibility to follow the administration with a critical look. High risk, large losses, bonuses and high costs associated with the management of wealth will weaken confidence. The same applies to unethical investments. Of course, we are all concerned with high returns on pension funds, but at the same time we want a good conscience about how the money is invested, by not investing in companies that commit, among other things. grossly unethical behaviour. The right is therefore in favour of the proposal put forward by the Left to ask the National Audit Office to go through the administration of the State pension fund – abroad to check whether it is in line with the guidelines given by the Stortinget. The Storing Message looks ahead, and draws up some new guidelines. That is good, but in my opinion it does not provide a good enough basis for giving a stamp of approval to the administration. A review of the National Audit Office will ensure a more independent review. That proposal has the support of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, and I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has joined that proposal in today's debate. I would like to add that, although that proposal – I wish I could say against assumption – is being voted down today, it does not mean that the Riksrevision on its own keel can not address this and go through whether the administration has been in line with the guidelines that the government has drawn up. The way in which we have organised the State pension fund – Abroad, has had broad support in Stortinget. The right considers that the organisation has been essentially good, but it is nevertheless important that we assess from time to time whether the organisation will continue to be the best in the future. The fund has now become one of the world's largest funds. There are, of course, many arguments for continuing with one large fund, but I note that there is also a technical debate about whether it is optimal to put all eggs in one basket, or whether we should have established several funds in order to have more competing environments. I do not want to draw any conclusions from this today, but the Right makes a proposal, together with the Left, to ask the Government to investigate and evaluate other ways of organising the fund, including whether to maintain one fund or to set up several funds. In another case that is not dealt with today, the Right takes up the proposal to establish a separate board of State pension fund – Foreign. Today, the main board of the Norwegian Bank is the board of directors of the fund. We believe that the competence required to control and monitor the State pension fund – abroad, suggests that there should be a separate board of directors. But we will come back to that when the matter is dealt with in Odelstinget. In our opinion, the result of the active administration is so weak that it weakens confidence in the management of pension funds. Since its inception in 1998, no positive contribution has been made to the return on the Fund. I am pleased that the Government has now announced that it will come back with its own assessment of the active administration in 2010. We believe that it should be speeded up, but we also stress that until this investigation becomes available, active management should be limited to what is strictly necessary, for commercial reasons. We also understand that for business reasons it is not possible to stop all administration until that investigation is available, but we believe that for reasons of trust in administration it should be limited to what is strictly necessary. The establishment of the ethical guidelines is a recognition of the dilemmas we face when we are going to invest so much of the pension money. Of course, we are concerned that there should be a good return on money, and at the same time we are concerned that the money should not be invested in companies that commit unethical acts or act in an unethical way and violate fundamental human rights. At the same time, however, the Pension Fund should not be a foreign policy instrument. It is also important to include in our search for the Pension Fund to act as correctly as possible and as politically as possible. The establishment of the ethical guidelines has been supported by the Right, and further development is mainly supported by the Right. But at the same time, we have to recognise that the guidelines also create some grey areas, which, in turn, will be able to present new challenges. We are therefore concerned that what is of guidelines should be verifiable and that it should not be associated with too much discretion. The right also supports the establishment of a programme within the State pension fund – abroad, which will invest up to DKK 20 billion in the environment and development. However, we stress in our remarks that we do not want to set up too many so-called special programmes within the State pension fund – abroad. We believe it can make it more difficult, or the city of challenges for administrators to measure and follow up different mandates within the same portfolio. It is a problem that we ask the Ministry to consider how to avoid these challenges when establishing a separate programme for the environment and development of the State pension fund – abroad. However, this should be affordable. We believe that it makes sense to establish it, and that will be supported by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e564	The president then realized that the representative Jan Tore Sanner addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e567	Then the president may have perceived something that was not said, but it is done. Then the proposal is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e572	It's amazing what one perceives! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e577	The representative, Mr Sanner, has stated on a number of occasions here in Stortinget that the Right is a guarantor on the part of the citizen in order to have a responsible economic policy. That is a reasonable view. The rule of action was just introduced to keep order in our national economy. He's important to practice in good times, but also in difficult times, as we now experience, if we're to have a sustainable development in the future. The Progress Party states in the setting we are now debating that the rule of action is irrelevant. You may read it on page 9 of this configuration, if you wish. The court’s national meeting recently opened for government cooperation with the Progress Party, and my question is therefore: How does the representative Sanner assess the chance of sensible government cooperation with a party that denies an important element of economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e585	The assessment of realism in the different government alternatives I think we're going to take in a different context. But what the right has been very clear about, is that in any government constellation we might have to enter into after the major elections, we will base the agreements we have entered into in Stortinget. This is the case with the pension agreement, in the case of the climate agreement, and of course with the rules of action for the use of the funds from the Pension Fund. There has been crystal clear right there, and I can also be left: of course, we will base it on it, regardless of which government constellation the Right will be included after the big shot for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e590	In view of future government configurations, it might also be relevant to ask for ethical guidelines, whether Sanner was equally comfortable to invest in nuclear weapons producers. But that's not what I'm going to ask. In the setting, Right says that they want the return on Staten pension fund – Foreign countries to be reported according to Global Investment Performance Standards – GIPS. The Ministry of Finance also says, according to the recommendation, that they are working on the revision of the framework, and this does not necessarily have to become a subject of controversy in the future. Nevertheless, it could be interesting to hear what the representative Sanner and Right think will change from today’s practice of introducing the GIPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e597	Let me first replicate to the first half of the line that I am pleased that the government parties are extremely concerned with the bourgeois government constellations after the first elections. I guess that might say something about preparing for another situation in a few months. As for the question raised by the representative Lund Bergo, I agree, I don't think that will mean all the world. Our concern in relation to this is that we should have a framework that makes the return comparable between the State pension fund – abroad and what is otherwise practised internationally. Our concern is only to get the most comparable sizes possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e604	It's approaching elections, and one might think that the opposition had been more united than one sees in this debate today. As one perceives both proposal and debate, it may seem that parts of the opposition actually agree more with the current, sitting, government than they are with themselves. But that wasn't my question. My question is, in fact, a follow-up to what the representative, Reidar Sandal, was talking about. We now see that the Right has made tax proposals that they have gone out with. They've agreed to build a lightning train for $150 billion. They shall have multiple OPS projects in NTP, without having come specifically with what it involves. So my question is: will the rule of action be established for the Right in any future government with the Progress Party, which believes the rule of action is irrelevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e611	I have already answered that question, and I find it a little strange that the representative Klungland will come back to it. We have been very clear that the rule of action is the basis of our policy. However, it should not be allowed to fall into the trap of believing that the rule of action is the only thing to do in order to pursue a responsible economic policy. It is the whole of economic policy that is crucial to whether it is responsible or not. It's about investment and consumption. It is also about increased taxes or lower taxes. But, as I said, we believe that the rule of action is a good guideline for economic policy, which means that we should use something less in good times and that we have the opportunity to use something more in times like ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e618	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e621	I don't know if everyone else heard the same thing as me, but what Jan Tore Sanner just did was draw into doubt the rule of action, if you were to rule by the rule of action in Norwegian politics. I see it as a glide flight towards the Progress Party also in that question. But we will have to come back to that in a later debate. Now we're talking about the State pension fund, about the oil fund. There are two principles that underpin the way we have to manage our oil fund. One is that we should manage the money in the best possible way, with the highest possible return at a moderate risk, but a moderate risk is also risk. We got that, which I think everyone agrees on, noticed the benefits during the last year. The second is that we should be leading ethical management and set a standard internationally for that very thing. It was one of the appeals points for SV when you started investing in shares, that you didn't have ethical guidelines in place. We have a majority for that, and everyone agrees on it now, although there is reason to ask questions about whether the Progress Party is really a follower of ethical guidelines. They're against corruption and child labour, they say, but I'll get back to it. Then there's a big question that's been debated this year, and that's the issue of the active administration. We have been very critical of the active administration, and there are some strong arguments against it. One is that the active management must necessarily be more short-term and may thus conflict with the long-term strength of the fund. This year we have seen how the active administration has contributed to weakening confidence and creating debate and noise around the way the Pension Fund's money is managed. There's some kind of noise that I think can be harmful to the entire Pension Fund and the administration in the long run. In addition, there is no evidence in theory that you actually make more money by doing it. The management of the pension fund has itself said that it is believed that it is justified by experience. You'll see that in the review that we're going to have during the year. The last thing is, of course, that the administration costs a lot of money. Sponsoring high-wage stockbrokers around the world who may have shown that in the last few years they have managed, in fact have not earned money – there is one thing that is not exactly in the middle of the blink of how we from SV look at this. Now we're going to have a thorough review. The government has said that we need a year on that review. Then I think there's really no big difference in what the opposition says, that we're going to take it in half a year, and in what we're saying, that we need a year to do this in a proper way, but we're going to get a proper review. There are some good arguments, it draws out. One is that such a large fund should have active management, and the other is that it has greater weight to make use of the active ownership exercise. Well, we're going to weigh this up to next year. There is no doubt that critical arguments and criticism of administration have been important. Then there's one thing that I need to get ready. The setting clearly states that the Progress Party wants to build an administrative environment in Norway. It is impossible to understand it in any other way than an active management environment in Norway. The question of Christian Tybring-Gjedde and the Progress Party will be quite plain: is it time that the Progress Party believes that in a situation where we are opposed to active management, if it is to be the conclusion in the next year, it will also be irrelevant to sponsor Norwegian management environments with own funds? Then this is the thing we can do very well within the framework of the Norwegian Bank. One of the things that has also been raised by the Progress Party is that it means that it leads to increased risk in the way we manage money now, that we invest and have reviewed and expanded what we invest in. The question then is: Is it so that the Progress Party believes that we should withdraw from some of the emerging markets, for example. Is this it? Is it true that the Progress Party believes that only investment should be made in the United States, Europe and Japan? In that case, there is reason to believe that the fall in the values of the oil fund and the Pension Fund would have been greater than it is today. It is believed by the Progress Party that there is reason to withdraw from China, Eastern Europe, Argentina and Brazil, and not go into some of these countries in which they criticise our presence today, by arguing against our being a participant in the emerging markets. I'll come back to the ethical guidelines in a separate article later. I just want to say that if the Progress Party was really against the fact that we increase the purchase of the share, the Progress Party should have a backbone enough to say that then we will stop buying up the shares now, but that does not say the Progress Party. It makes me have reason to doubt whether they're serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e647	There was something special to hear the representative Holmås, who in his post comes with a number of questions to the Progress Party. I think the representative has misunderstood a little. It was now the representative Holmås was supposed to make posts, and then there is a line change, and then we ask the questions! What I want to address is precisely a theme that the representative Holmås did not talk about – and that is not without reason, I think – and that concerns bonus. For those who have followed Norwegian policy for many years and have seen SV's behaviour in this room for many years, it is very surrealistic now to experience the party's embrace, after they have received the Minister of Finance, of bonus schemes, and relatively lucrative bonus schemes – for taxpayers' money – to administrators who manage our oil wealth. The Progress Party, inter alia: Now has suggested, is a downside bonus, so that if you actually do a delete job, you can get a downside bonus, not just get benefits when it goes up. Why is it that SV does not want the back of the medal in the bonus scheme for which SV has now become very strong?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e657	Now, it's probably the case that the bonus schemes used under the Norwegian Bank go over several years to bring the fluctuations, so that the negative results this year actually have an effect on the bonus also two years in advance. I don't think the Progress Party heard after I spoke. I told you, among other things. that the bonus schemes in place and currently available in the context of the active management are one of the arguments against the active management. Now the Progress Party itself has wanted to go in and run active management, to spend its own money on a Norwegian administrative environment, which will have the kind of bonuses that the Progress Party argues against here. I would also like to remind you that when, in connection with our communications on state ownership, we have clearly stated that we should not have excessive use of bonuses and options, the Progress Party has consistently voted against setting such restrictions as we have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e666	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e670	St.meld. No 20 for 2008-2009 on the management of the State pension fund – Foreign is a rarely important notification. We need to learn from our mistakes, and we are in a new era of international economic policy, where this is an important debate, not least in the UN bodies, and it is said that Norway is contributing with its mixed economic tradition here. In 2008, the Fund had significant real losses in securities, including: bankruptcys in companies where the fund was the owner. The loss of the fund is even greater if we look at the book values of the financial securities at the end of the year. In retrospect, it has been found that responsible managers have gone much further in placing our oil money in highly speculative papers, beyond the financial committee. This shall not happen, and responsible persons have taken some maritime criticism. This maritime critique could have been clearer to the Norwegian people. This risky administration was and is part of the spirit of time, free flow of capital — a spirit of time that allowed for large short-term gains, but also very high risks. The supporters of such an international free market economy are represented in Norway with the Progress Party and the Right, and they are also driving international forces behind it. That's why it's kind of strange to hear the posts so far. The centre party is confident that it will invest part of the profits of our oil revenues in the Staten pension fund – abroad. However, when the fund was set up, the Storting raised personal savings to a national virtue and forgot too much – and I stress too much – the real economy. The central party believes that the nation of Norway should save more in the real economy by investing in infrastructure and knowledge, and it is moving in the right direction during this government period. The forthcoming national transport plan is an important contribution. Government pension fund – Foreign manages very large amounts and must have active management. However, it is also important to discuss the framework and implementation of the active management. The allocation of shares and bonds in the fund is claimed to reflect the time horizon of the fund. The Fund’s very long-term time horizon was an important professional argument for raising its share in 2007. The centre party has opted for maritime criticism of this decision in retrospect and acknowledges that the management statement on a so-called long-term perspective resulting from future pension obligations does not imply that the fund has a high share. The centre party prioritises long-term and safe management with less risk exposure and therefore considers it right to reduce its share. The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Norway assume that in financial markets in which the fund invests, assets are known to be so efficient and are therefore at all times at an approximate price. It won't be like this until the bubbles end, i.e. the gap between financial values and real economic values is closed. It is therefore wrong to argue that the fund today buys so-called cheap shares. In 2008, the active interest rate management of the Bank of Norway caused significant losses due to interest payments made by transaction fees and/or bonus-driven administrators. The parties therefore support the changes notified by Norway’s Bank in the presentation of the 2008 result, as well as its warnings that mandates to external interest rate managers will be withdrawn. Nor is there any reason why our country's fund should be borrowed by investing in loan-funded financial products. Norway’s Bank Investment Management – NBIM – has, unlike other active administrators, not a concession to provide active management. NBIM must also be required to provide active management and be subject to independent, competent supervision by the credit supervision. The central party is opposed to the fact that the oil fund, as a long-term investor, is able to sell shares that are not owned and to make decisions on interest rate developments in order to achieve a higher return. The centre party considers that, with its time horizon for current investment areas, the fund should only engage in ordinary share transactions and bond purchases. The financial management of the pension wealth needs to be reviewed and aligned on principles that reduce the risk of loss. The Ministry of Finance will follow up next year’s call for Staten pension fund – Foreign to become a separate management organisation. And we're very happy about that. I just want to stress that in the regulation that comes from the Ministry of Finance, it has to be taken into account that it has to be an active administration, but that it is tightening up the legislation with less risk and more government bonds. That's why it's central that you get such a review. We are also pleased that the Minister of Finance will assess whether the management of the oil fund can be organised in the same way as the People's Security Fund, regardless of the central bank, with its own government appointed by the King or the Stortinget. As regards Document No: 8:69 in 2008-2009 from the Left, I just want to say that the Central Party shares that proposal’s strong emphasis on the need for independent revision of the management of the State pension fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e687	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e690	The representative Per Olaf Lundteigen has previously, including in a chronicle in today's business and in other media, taking self-criticism when it comes to the management of the oil fund. On a website in the Evening Post, he said: "We made a mistake, we gambled and lost." So he's planning to reduce the share. I understand it this way on his post that he still means it. At the same time, I'm trying to read the comments that the Central Party is behind in this case, and I'm essentially not finding any of those thoughts and the points of view that one of them has to reduce the risk. The representative Lundtigen has also stated earlier that Norway should invest more in values, for example. infrastructure, road, rail and transport. And then my question is: isn't the representative of Lundtigen really more in agreement with the Progress Party than his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e702	The Progress Party stands consistently to satisfy all parties in all matters – there is one important exception, which I am not going to make – and that is why there is no lead for a responsible political party. The Progress Party also has the characteristic that, as long as risky investments are successful, it is for that reason. When the back comes, you've been close to it all along. So it's hard to follow the Progress Party, and it's important that you have a line in what you do, and that you also have the ability to point out things that could be different. In this case, the Minister of Finance says that with regard to the active administration, she will come back to Stortinget with her own regulation, and she will look at things. It is natural that we, as government parties, then put it so heavily – because it is Storting's label – that we follow it up. And that's exactly what I'm standing at the back of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e709	In its lines to the Right today, the government parties have been very concerned about the division of possible civil government options. What is more serious is the split that the post of the representative Lundtigen shows is that there is within the sitting government about many things. He has now repeated the criticism he has been publicly out there with outside this house, both in today's business and on the Central Party's websites, about several aspects of the Pension Fund's active management. My question to the representative Lundtigen is this: does he not see the seriousness of the fact that one of the government parties is promoting so much uncertainty about what the government parties and government really think to be able to bring together on such an important matter as the management of the Norwegian pension fund? Where do we actually get to know what the representative Lundtigen thinks – here or outside this house?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e716	As the replicator now said, what I have said outside this house and in the house, the same thing – it is laid dead. Point 2: The central thing is that government parties are behind active management. It's impossible, with so much money as we're talking about here, that the Norwegian state through its administrative agencies doesn't have an active management of the funds that are here. So the next point is how the active administration is implemented. Active administrators today have been criticised for parts of what they have done. The finance minister says this is something to come back to with detailed regulations on. So this is in a good way. It is natural then to take part in the discussion and make some assessments and values that should be taken into account. I have full confidence that the Ministry of Finance in the economic time we are now in is at a lower risk than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e725	I want to give the representative Lundtigen the recognition that he dares to be as free-thinking as he is in a matter where there has been too little free thinking and too much uniform thinking – and the absence of politics – namely the management of the oil fund. I think it's necessary. I don't think it's destroying either the red-green thing or the whole thing. What I hung up on was that at the end of his speech, the representative Lundtegen said that he supported what was being discussed today in the Left's draft document on the role of the National Audit Office. There's something about that when there's volatile times, and it blows headwinds, it's important to have some solid, bearer community institutions that come with it. That's what makes Storting's extended arm, the National Auditor's. Can I understand the representative Lundtigen yours that he will vote in favour of the minority proposal concerning the Riksrevision at the voting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e732	I thank the leader of the Left for choosing to see the debate that way. I really appreciate that. With regard to the Riksrevision and the revision of the State Pension Fund, what I said here is that we are behind the strong emphasis of the proposer on the need for independent auditing. It's a common comment that's in it. There are also other arguments in the case, which have led to a different conclusion from that of the Left-wing proposer. The central part is behind the majority, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e739	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e742	I think I'll go so far as to say that there's almost a happy day in Stortinget today, not because it's just nice reading when we see the impairment of the State Pension Fund – abroad, but because the Stortinget takes such a thorough, principled and broad debate on this. I have had a lot of responsibility in this room for largely financial policy all the years this fund has been of some size, but I would say that some of the most typical has been the absence of policies and involvement in all the complicated contexts and questions this has represented. It may be possible that after the last weak 2008 year and all the attention it has received, it is likely to say that never so bad it is good for anything. I think we might now have a shift in the management of the State Pension Fund – abroad. It is absolutely necessary that democracy engages much more, and it is absolutely necessary that the debate on this in public space become much stronger. I want to assume that it is actually a success story we are discussing today. The amazing values we've found in the North Sea, which is traded for money, Stortinget has managed to keep out of the running party and save in later times and later generations. The principle of high returns and moderate risks has been upheld. I have also been involved in the development of what is called ‘ethical guidelines’. There's a lot of people who probably want to take credit for it. There has been a long debate. I remember well the opposition in the office to this. And then it went into place. SV has made a great effort. The Christian People's Party and the Left have made an effort. Many people have made an effort to get where we are today. Of course, we don't have a perfect code, but we have to be on our way. It has to be tried, but we're starting to approach something that I think can work, that sets some framework around what's the main course to get at a high rate of return with moderate risk. I think the same development we're going to see in relation to the environment. I also believe that ethics and the environment are going to support the very purpose of high returns and low risks as development progresses. This is in many ways a success story, but a success story will live with its people in public space and in debate. There it is necessary to criticise, not the sitting Finance Minister, but all of us. At an earlier stage, we should have been better at running politics, getting political debate and anchoring the important link between the complicated technical things this represents, and most people. We should have filled that problem in the Storting even better. Therefore I say that this may be a joyous day. I think we can see that we are getting a turn around, where there will be more politics and more debate. I think that's important. I very much welcome that. So we're in this hour right now. It probably has not least the connection with the problems in 2008 and the need to raise matters to the Storting, as the ones we are discussing today, which we are going to discuss in the next few days, and which are announced in the future. One can almost say that there is a debate about the size and extent of active management. I would say that at least there should be a conclusion on a more active democracy in dealing with these matters, because people have to be involved. Because it's been a little apolitical, this topic. It's been so good -- the oil price is rising so much, and the administrators have managed to increase the value even more -- that they've been sitting a little quietly and saying that there's something we shouldn't be overly concerned about, it's so much harder to deal with thousands of billions than a few million for good purposes. That time should be over now, and I think this debate shows it. There is also a bit of a background for the Left to take the initiative in a proposal for a document that is, in fact, about linking the Stortinget closer to ongoing supervision, and hence management – and thus debate about the whole activity of the Bank of Norway and also about the oil fund. The proposal that the Riksrevision should have a special review of the decision of the Storting, etc. is complied with, has today been approved by an overall opposition. But the Left, along with the Progress Party, also wants the Riksaudition to have the ongoing independent audit, not least on behalf of the role of the Riksaudition towards Stortinget. Now I think this too is going to change a little after this day, because the Riksrevision – we also see that from a letter from the Riksrevision – wants to have a more active role in relation to the Norwegian Bank and the State pension fund – abroad and perhaps on its own initiative will have it more. The National Audit Office also has a special task in doing a job for the Stortinget by organising the necessary control for the Stortinget for subsequent debates and treatment here. So whatever the outcome of the voting, I actually think that what's going to happen is going to change it. It is good for the oil fund, and it is good for the entire Norwegian community that this too becomes a common part of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e755	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e759	I agree with the representative Sponheim that it is a very important matter – perhaps the most important thing of the year – we are discussing in the Stortinget today. I also agree that the vote shows that there is a great deal of absence of politics, as Sponheim himself expressed it, and I am proud to be part of a broad majority that over several years, among others. has provided a decent management of the large values we have here in Norway. Sponheim gave honor to my colleague from Buskerud, Lundtigen, to be free-thinking. I thought I would challenge Sponheim to be equally free-thinking in the line change about what he thinks about the biggest party on the bourgeois side not wanting decent management of the Pension Fund and, among other things, the pension fund. opens up Burmese state bonds, investment in companies that produce nuclear bombs and which in many ways also want to invest in companies that violate fundamental human rights. I would like an answer to that question. But I also want an answer to what he thinks about the fact that the big brother from the previous government period has so clearly opened up to cooperate with such a party in government after the election to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e768	Let me limit this to saying that I deeply disagree with most of the positions of the Progress Party on this matter. I think it is necessary to create ethical, social and, I think, environmental frameworks around this that are evolving into the world's largest fund. I think it's fully possible to combine with what's the fund's purpose, and I think it's possible to do it in such a balanced way that the policy in it is not exaggerated. So there I strongly disagree with the Advancement Party. This is one of the arguments that, in addition to the view of money, the view of the rule of action, a lack of – whether I may use a historical left-name – the spirit of Søren Jabæk, which makes it impossible for the Left to sit in government with the Progress Party. I am of those who don't believe so much that the Right is going to do it either, so I don't need to pull up the adrenaline on the basis of what is now happening in front of the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e775	The Left, together with the Progress Party, proposes a mechanism to ensure that the Riksaudition is held responsible for the financial audit of the Fund and then responsible for the administrative audit to verify whether the Fund is managed in accordance with the Stortingen assumptions. Is it natural that the Riksrevision revises the Ministry of Finance on behalf of the Stortinget while at the same time carrying out audit tasks The Ministry of Finance has asked the Ministry of Finance to carry out its task? Will this not be giving tasks to your own auditor? Doesn't the Left at all see any concern with such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e782	Absolutely not. The National Auditor is independent of Stortinget and pursues everything that happens in central government. This applies both to the departments and to all those who are subject to the departments in different ways. The national audit itself says it's a completely natural task for them to do this. However, I would nevertheless like to make a call to the Government to consider whether the Riksrevision should not have such a role in parallel with an international audit firm, because I think it will contribute significantly to Storting's ability to exercise control and audit of the Bank of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e789	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e792	This is the third time that the Storting treats a separate report on the State pension fund, or what is called the oil fund in the public mouth. In the past, all assessments were on the risk profile, ethical guidelines, etc. part of the national budget. As a result, these important and significant issues that have been the subject of debate today in the United Kingdom have often been drowned. That is why our government and I have been particularly concerned that if we are to be able to maintain a democratic anchoring of how we manage the oil fund, we must ensure that there is a separate attitude, a separate opportunity for debate. There's no other way to make sure that we're up-to-date on how we manage people's savings, than to invite not only the Storting but also the public to participate in these balances. Like most of the others in the Chamber, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job. I think it's incredibly important that you have both dialogue and development of these issues. What I had hoped was to be the main interest around during the processing of the paper on the State pension fund for 2008, was the work we've been doing on the ethical guidelines, because until the financial crisis really got under way, that's what the Storting and Government had planned to be the main headline. So let me start there, so I can be absolutely sure that I'm going to go a little bit through some main headings that have been very important. We've had a very broad hearing. Both nationally and internationally, there has been a high level of involvement in the ethical guidelines of the Pension Fund. There is a lot of attention, and there is a lot of emphasis on, for example: the documentation provided by the Ethics Council when recommending extractions and also on the active ownership exercise carried out by Norway’s Bank in these issues. What we are doing now in relation to further developing the ethical guidelines is important and important. We now make it clear that we don't want to invest in companies that produce tobacco. There has been a relatively long discussion about whether this should be included or not, and now comes to the conclusion of a nearly total expansion, i.e. minus the Progress Party and the Right, with an extension in relation to the ethical guidelines here. In addition, very exciting work is being done on the environmental front and in relation to emerging markets. One is that we warn that we want an investment programme in relation to environmental investment. We're getting closer to how this is going to be done in the national budget, and I see there's a broad consensus in the Stortingen on that. In addition, the notification airs to do the same with respect to investments in emerging markets. There's no clear conclusion from the Government's side, but I also see the commitment that has been in the committee around this, and I take it with me in the further work. Then we have notified that we want Norway's Bank to develop so-called expectation documents in at least two new areas. One is about the environment and climate. It's about what kind of expectations you present on behalf of the fund in relation to the companies we're invested in. But it's not just about the environment and the climate, it's also about transparency and it's going to be, what to say, a way to complement the work we're now doing internationally to fight tax havens and other opportunities to hide ownership structures, for example. It is important and essential for the work on the Ethical Guidelines of the Fund. In addition, we establish an observation list to be a sort of intermediate point between extracts, or recommendations on extracts from the Ethics Council, and the active ownership exercise from the Bank of Norway. We have already put a company, namely Siemens, on such an observation list, and we believe that we can have a greater impact on cooperation in view of the different instruments we have in relation to the ethical work on the fund. A few–three days ago, I also announced that we should follow-up work on the impact of climate change on financial markets, and we have now concluded an agreement with a separate company called Mercer to do just that – at a general level, but also on what kind of advice we as a fund can get in that context. So in a lot of areas here, we have now developed the work done on the ethical guidelines, and especially in the field of environment and development, the focus is much stronger. Then to the turbulent year 2008. So the Pension Fund is Europe's largest fund, and one of the world's absolute largest funds. When we have chosen an investment strategy that largely links the development of the fund to the development of world markets, it is quite obvious and no surprise that the values of the fund are affected by what is happening, when we have the greatest fall in share prices of 100 years and the strongest economic crisis since World War II. We have had a significant reduction in the fund's values, and when the world's stock markets fall by 40 p.m., when Oslo Børs falls by 50 p.m., when the listed property companies fall by 60 p.m., it is obvious that our fund also experiences a decrease in value – 23 p.m. for the rest of the world and 25 pst. for the Social Security Fund, which is the investment in Norway. But our goal of risk for the fund is not to have the least possible variation over time. We're a big fund, with a very long investment horizon, and it was Stortinget's very clear consciousness when we discussed what kind of risk spread we should have on the fund, if we were to increase the share from 40 to 60 pst. Everyone who participated in that discussion had a very long-term horizon in relation to what kind of decision we were going to make, and the question of correct timing for that decision was not what was emphasised by Stortinget either. I also understand that the public debate about the Pension Fund has been, what to say, much better prepared to assess whether it was wise or not to go from an increase in the share from 40 to 60 p.m., because we had discussed this in detail. Everyone knew that the judgment, whether it was wise or not, could not be dismissed in a year. And we might think that when we look back and decide whether the timing, which we haven't put the emphasis on, was wise or not, we'll see that it's also coming out very favorable in the light of history, because you haven't ever got as many shares for a barrel of oil as in 2008. Since we have such a long investment horizon, the timing can also go up from 40 to 60 pst. in retrospect, it is said to have been quite wise. But we don't get the verdict of history now, we can't get it either now or in a few years. A little visit to the Progress Party in this context: I think the Advance Party is quite confusing in expressing their investment strategy and risk profile for the Fund. First, they think you need to invest 10 pst. on property. That there should be a low risk profile, in a situation where not least the property market has been a huge bubble and lost more than any other market, I think there are good reasons to put a big question mark on it. Secondly, I think you are very approximate in the discussion about what the impairment is due to. For example, an impairment of over DKK 600 billion associated with the Pension Fund is not about a purchase from 40 to 50 pst. the share of the shares, as expressed by the Advance Party. What I think there is a completely different need for proper anchoring of the future, and which we are now going to work hard to present to the Stortinge in a big message in a year's time, is the reason for having active management. There we do not have satisfactory results for 2008. In reality, there is now index management of the interest rate papers, active management of the shares, which, after all, has proved to be positive in the time that has passed. But we have been actively managing the State pension fund since 1998 without any real, thorough debate as to why we have it, what extent it should have, and what kind of requirements you should have for risk management. That debate, I believe, is absolutely necessary for the Stortinget to resume. The same applies to the issue of who receives the management mandate on behalf of the Stortinget and the Ministry of Finance. We've been very pleased that the Norwegian Bank has that mission, and I think it's very strong reasons for them to continue to have it, but it's also reasonable to explain, as the committee is about, the benefits and disadvantages that are at it. This is a very important and important debate. It's healthy with all the debates around the State pension fund, because it's about the people's savings. There are people who are going to have insight and trust that we are really managing our savings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e825	The council did not mention with a single word bonus and pay agreements in its post, as far as I heard. The Progress Party is promoting a proposal which proposes the introduction of a downside bonus, that is. the risk is borne by the person taking the risk. It's a very healthy principle for all economic conditions – but it's not a word from the Council of State about this. We are promoting a proposal that is in line with what was pointed out by the Ministry of Finance when we asked how this can be actually promoted and how this can be done in practice. My question to the government council is, Is the government just rhetorical about bonus schemes? When they are responsible for doing something about the bonus schemes, you don't want to do anything about it, because you have to listen to the management board from the industry. Or is it that the Government is really in favour, but will not support proposals from the Progress Party because they do not quite like the design? And then you come back in a year, and then you're too much anyway. Is that how it's going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e832	One of the issues that is closely related to whether we are going to have active management or not is just about bonus systems. I think the way bonus systems work in these markets is alien to very many people in Norway, and that it is absolutely necessary to have restrictions on how it should be. It's also about what kind of anchoring the fund management itself has. So when it comes to the whole question of whether we're going to have active governance, and what kind of scale it's going to have, it's not least about what kind of reward systems you're going to have. With regard to the issue raised by the Progress Party, it is true that when you have a bonus system that has three years intervals, it is also a downside effect of how these bonuses are paid, because if you do it worse than the market in 2008 – and that's what you assume when you evaluate bonuses, not whether the market falls or not – it's in case you pull it for 2009 and 2010. So some of the logic that the Progress Party here is asking for is already inside the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e839	There is an overall opposition that will ask the Riksrevision to go through the management of the State pension fund – abroad, to see if the administration has been in line with investment strategy and the decisions taken in the Stortinget. My first question is how the Minister of Finance deals with that proposal – whether she thinks it would be useful for the Riksrevision to do that job, or whether she thinks it is unnecessary. The second question relates to the investment programme that is now signalled in relation to the environment and development. It has Right-wing support, but at the same time we believe it may be problematic to establish several different mandates within a large fund. Does the Minister of Finance also see that this can be problematic? And if so, will you go through it to see how this can be done so as to avoid the challenges that will lie there in measuring and monitoring individual investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e846	First of all, the Riksrevision issue: first, the Riksrevision has recently reviewed and carried out control of the role of the Ministry of Finance in the Fund’s investment strategy – for the years 2007 and 2008 – and concluded that the investment decisions taken are within what was well justified over time. I want to present a challenge to the Stortinget regarding the discussion of the kind of supervision to be exercised in relation to the exercise of its mission by Norges Bank. The majority appoints a representative to oversee the Bank of Norway. In particular, these times of crisis show us that supervision, and clarity about who has what supervisory tasks, are incredibly important. So what's the challenge in relation to how the opposition deals with these issues, especially in the law we're dealing with later, is the clarity of the responsibility between representation. [[President clubs]] We can come back to that in connection with the ostrich debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e856	That's where we'll agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e861	Yes, then you can talk later – but speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e864	We'll fix it in the chamber!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e869	The President is in a very good mood!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e872	It's not that long until the next odelsting debate, which takes care of that question, so it's going to be okay. I was going to deal with what the Council of State addressed – to the extent that so far – lack of debate about the active administration. It was also given from the party trap of the council, Heikki Holmås, some critical remarks to the active management system itself. What I noticed — and the Council of State was also involved — is the question of whether bonuses, remuneration and the framework for active management can actually be counterproductive in relation to what was also the subject of the Council of State, namely having a long-term profile of investment. So I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on whether the system of active management and the framework for it may have contributed to the fact that there has been more short-term interest in its active investments than you should have in relation to the fund we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e881	Neither the Bank of Norway nor the Ministry of Finance believe that the active management has been satisfactory in the situation we have now, and it has been shown that there have been weaknesses in risk assessments, in particular on interest rate papers. There is a detailed explanation of the position and the work of the Committee and the hearings that have been around it have also been thoroughly highlighted. Whether the way in which the bonus systems linked to the active management have been designed makes it too short-sighted in relation to the decisions taken in the active management, I also believe that we need to take this issue further into account when assessing the active management as such. I believe that the assumption is that you use bonus systems, etc. When you have a certain form of active management, obviously one of the things that makes most people have a little less confidence in how the fund is managed. But there are also good arguments for a certain active management, especially for those of us who are concerned about having an environmental investment programme, for example. Such a programme would probably be absolutely dependent on a certain form of active management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e888	I will return to the question of the Riksrevision. There I disagree with the Minister of Finance's assessments. I believe that the Riksrevision should have had a more explicit mission on behalf of the Stortinget towards Norway’s Bank, also with a special review of the State pension fund – Foreign at these times. The Minister of Finance doesn't want that. There we get to accept the majority in this round. My question is about Stortinget’s need to have a review and organisation of treatment and control, regardless of the Minister of Finance. In fact, within the mandate of the Riksrevisionen of Stortinget, they have quite extensive powers to carry out the necessary audit and supervision on their own initiative. Will it be whether the Riksrevision after this wants to do so, as it is far on the way in a letter they have sent, be something that the Minister of Finance seems to be ok and welcome, or will it be something she thinks is unpleasant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e900	Nothing in this debate is about my pleasure or discomfort, and there is nothing in the clean-up of responsibilities and audit that changes in relation to what the Riksaudition can do today in terms of supervision and control. But I think the main challenge for the Storting is: What tasks does the Storting believe should be of representation in relation to supervision and control in relation to the management of the State pension fund? The representation is also the body of the Storting, just as the National Auditorate is the body of the Storting. Now, when we strengthen the representation with a separate secretariat, where you get your own external auditor, where the representative has the opportunity to give an external auditor other types of assignment at hand, but where the Riksaudition is in the starting point and revises the management of this, I think you've got a clean system. So I think the biggest challenge is, what's the role of representation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e905	As the Minister of Finance was involved, the share increased from 40 to 60 pst. then the stock exchange was on top in 2007, and only the Progress Party voted against it. Estimates indicate that the oil fund today could be perhaps $150 billion larger if one had not increased the share, compared to what it is. It is difficult to perceive that the Minister of Finance in some way takes some sort of self-criticism on this, but the other thing is doing. On March 28th this year Per Olaf Lundteigen was out in the evening post and said the following: "We made a mistake, we gambled and lost." Does the Minister of Finance agree with the appointment of Lundteigen that the Minister of Finance has gambled with and lost his community's money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e914	No, I totally disagree. There was nothing in the decision that the Stortingen made when we decided to increase the share over time – there were two decisions over time, they decided not to buy up from 40 to 60 pst. when the market was on top. That means that in 2008 we have got more shares for each barrel of oil than we have ever done before, and no one thought – at least not me – that this should be summed up after a year. As far as the view of the Advance Party is concerned, I think the confusion is quite great. If there is any consistency in what the Progress Party believes, you should immediately ask that you stop buying further, because it is not that we are up in a share of 60 pst. not yet. We're barely 50 pst. So if there was any consistency from the Progress Party, we should pull the emergency brakes now. But I have noticed that the representative Hageseter has changed his view when it comes to the share of the State pension fund, and has stated to the media that he would like the Progress Party to be for, because the stock markets are much lower than at the time of the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e927	It's approaching elections, and the opposition's task is, of course, to come up with their own policies and criticise the Government, so that they can gain an uproar on the opinions of their parties towards the elections. But we do see in more than this debate – in fact in all debates – that there is a growing gap between the opposition parties on the Stortinget. For example, the Progress Party will: have a Norwegian capital management environment, but they do not want active management. The Progress Party will have ethical guidelines, but they distance themselves from the vision of ethical guidelines. Instead, the representative Tybring-Gjedde here today says that they want to use international organisations to do that work, but they're also kissing about them. The right will cooperate with the Progress Party, which believes that the action rule is irrelevant. They will explore the current organisational model of the State pension fund — abroad, but they have already concluded that it needs to be distinguished from the Board of Directors of the Bank of Norway. So here, the Left and Christian Party of Peoples are going to wait as best they can. Norway has become a rich country because of its petroleum wealth and good political governance. It is important to remember that managing wealth is as important as picking it up, and the Pension Fund, with its ethical guidelines, is the best way we have today to manage this wealth. The international economic crisis also shows the sense of pursuing a counter-cyclical policy by saving in good times, so that we have something to use in bad times. A year ago, we experienced the strongest growth since the 1960s. It's probably about the same length of time as the previous majority government. Norway grew twice as high as the euro area. We had 200,000 more in work than when the government took over, and we had 50,000 fewer unemployed. Real wage growth was unique, and too high an interest rate concerned politicians. It's as fast as it can turn. During the last year, the political debate has turned its head around. Today we are discussing matters that were almost unmistakable a year ago. The pension fund loses money, unemployment rises, interest rates are record low, the government has come up with ever new means of increasing unemployment, and fiscal politicians have followed up. The only thing that still remains in Norwegian policy is that the Ministry of Transport does not have the power to follow up Storting's decision on sleeping cars to Kristiansand. There has been a lot of debate about the Pension Fund's returns lately, and that is understandable. In 2008, the State pension fund had a return of more than minus 23 pst., where the active management of Norway’s Bank stood for 3-4 pst. In the first quarter of 2009, the figures were less than 5 pst. and 0.4 pst. active management. To date, developments in the second quarter indicate a significantly better return for the fund as a whole. Based on general market developments, there is reason to believe that the reference portfolio in April and May has had a positive return of close to 10 pst. In addition, we can expect the active management to be positive in the second quarter. The positive market developments of March have continued throughout the second quarter. That's the way it is, and that's how the market has always been. When the State pension fund – Foreign investment abroad, it would probably be quite sensational if they were going with large profits when the rest of the world was on the verge of bankruptcy. Our pension assets should essentially ensure two things: future pensions, of course. But the most important thing, in my view, is to ensure that our descendants can have a standard of living similar to ours. I am proud that I have been able to participate and contribute to it through the rule of action and a sensible policy. If future politicians manage their duties properly, they may also be able to sleep in a sleeping car from Kristiansand in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e955	Today's debate has again been a lot about ethical guidelines, and everyone has not completely agreed, as we have heard. Some have pointed out that this is difficult. The setting refers to ethical considerations being subjective. It's one of the comments of the Progress Party that mentions it that way. Ethics is to some extent subjective, yes, of course it is. But many scholars in this field would argue that there are universal ethical considerations and values. It's e.g. Undoubtedly unethical with weapons capable of eradicating all life on earth. I think it's a suspicion that things should get subjective, and that there should be something muffens in such a kind of assessment. Politics is subjective. Of course, reasoning on an ethical basis is subjective, but then what? Everything we do in this room is of that character. I don't want to abdicate from making subjective assessments, either ethically or politically. Political balances that we do today are difficult, of course they are. But that doesn't mean that we're not going to do that, as the representative Syversen also pointed out earlier. Instead, we have to work to develop a policy in this area, and then we have to develop this field slowly, because it's demanding, and we're paving the way. But we still have to do it. We're in the front line of the world, and many private companies are following us. This innovation by the Ministry of Finance is an important field of broad support in the storeroom. At least we can see that. There is a field that has a broad mention in the biggest message, but is not mentioned to any particular extent here. It's about the closed jurisdictions, as they're called. I am pleased that there are many sides to the discussion of just so-called tax havens, because they are important focal points for criminal activity. It is not about tax competition, as some claim, although it is an interesting debate in itself. But this is about countries and nations that have little or no taxes. They protect the owners from the tax authorities and they lack complete transparency. This is perfect for those who have something to hide, whether it's dictators, people who have earned money on drugs, human trafficking, corruption, or other gross criminal activity. Personally, I have to admit that I enjoyed the description of the feminist Lisbeth Salander who used tax havens as an effective tool to crack men who hate women. The description of it can be found in one of the books of Stieg Larsson. But although it's fun reading, I'm obviously strongly opposed to this in the real world, because there's no good reason to defend tax havens if you want a better world. As described in the Storing Communication, we have recently achieved a surprising amount just to combat tax havens. In the case of the State pension fund – abroad, however, we have not come far enough. This is because extracts based on activity or establishment in tax havens are not feasible. It's hard to make boundaries, and it's hard to practice. This is because there are a lot of companies that somehow have a connection to these countries. I'm sorry. That's why we can't decide today that we want to withdraw from all companies that have a connection to such countries, but it shows how important it is to work widely internationally for changes related to transparency in these countries. I believe that it imposes a special responsibility on Norway, because as a nation, we are so heavily involved in investments in many of these companies. Then you have to develop the methods further, and I am sure that we will do so, as we have gradually developed ethical guidelines in many ways. The aim must be to avoid investing in this type of nation – in the most lukewarm countries. I believe the discussion in the big message is a step in the direction of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e972	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e975	As I mentioned earlier, I believe that these debates and the fact that we have a big message every year are helping to ensure that we get more policy – and more political debate too – about the governance of the State pension fund, and we get better policies. I just want to mention what the Council of State had to say in relation to the importance of climate change on the investments in the State pension fund, which is a very exciting debate to come back to. We have the discussion linked to the governance structures, which we also come back to at regular intervals, and we have the discussion about both a review of investment in companies in developing countries and the discussion about government bonds – and I would like to touch on it. This is the case with ethical legislation, and it is still evolving. We now have a special review of investments in companies active in war zones, and that is important in relation to Israel's occupation in Palestine and Gaza, but also, as the Christian People's Party was in it, in relation to the conflict zone in Congo. Tobacco is left out, and now we also get a discussion about bonds. It's clear that reaches 40 pst. the investments in the State pension fund are in debt securities, both government and others, a discussion of how we develop a regulatory framework for government bonds, exciting and important. I reacted to the fact that Christian Tybring-Gjedde was very ready to say, "Why only Burma?" Why aren't we going to have more other countries that are evil or wretched here in the world? Why shouldn't they be here too? But I notice that the Progress Party is opposed to the proposal to take a proper review of government bonds, and how we can develop a regulatory framework for this. It's one of the areas where they stand out. The other area where the Progress Party stands out clearly is that of ethical guidelines. They believe that today's practice is too rigid, today's exclusion is too rigid. And then I say, bring concrete examples of companies that shouldn't have been left out of the investment portfolio, but that are now left out. Is that Wal-Mart? They're running today with union hugging. Does the Progress Party believe that the fundamental right to organise is not sufficient to withdraw? Give us the concrete examples. The only thing that has been brought forward is that the Progress Party wants to contribute to the arms race through investment in nuclear weapons. I notice that the President of the United States, Barack Obama, is very clear that you want a nuclear-free world, and want to work in that direction. I think it's especially that the Progress Party wants to go in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e984	I would like to make some comments to the representative Holmås. He misunderstood – or chose to misunderstand – when I talked about why the fund increases its risk. He asked if the Progress Party went against it. But you have to accept that when you go into emerging markets, when you go into unlisted companies, when you go into small companies, etc., you increase the risk. That's my point. For each year, there is a new assessment, a new criterion for investment that increases risk but is constantly defined as spreading risk. That was when I said that when you play both horse, lotto and tipping, you spread the risk, but it is not said that it is a more prudent investment for that reason. With regard to the Progress Party and where we want to limit investment, we have said that time and time again, and we are proposing it again, namely to reduce the share and to have more secure investments in debt securities. But you have to be aware of what you're doing. We also want these ethical guidelines to be more limited and not so rigid in practice. Because when the representative Holmås was on the pulpit, it seemed as if he wanted to extend this to almost anything. But I showed in my post how inconsistent and hopeless it is if you can't invest in something that's sad and look in this world. It's so much weird that it's sad and sad. But can we not accept that we are people, that there is something called well-being, and that we actually exist on this planet – and do not believe that you should invest in a non-profit world where everyone is equal. It is actually a variation in this world, and we are investing in a global market. We must, in fact, accept that and not put ourselves – morally and ethically – on our high horse and believe that we should be able to rule and rule all other people. So the ethics in Norway has changed from year to year. The ethics that Heikki Holmås stands for in 2009, he did not stand for in 2000 – he did not stand for it in 1990, and he will stand for a completely different ethics in 2020. But you say with certainty that the ethics you have today is going to apply to everyone, everywhere, on the whole planet, regardless of the level of development, no matter how far you have come in economic development. That's what I call some form of ethical imperialism. That's exactly what it is -- ethics imperialism. You try to point out to the whole world that just as you control yourself, you're right. It's not more than 150 years since we had child labour in Norwegian mines either. You have to be aware of the direction you are going. Then it is said that everything that the representative Holmås and State Council Halvorsen believe is ethically incorrect, no one should invest in. You have to teach the whole world about ethics, and the Norwegian ethics is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e995	It's been a solid and interesting debate. Christian Tybring-Gjedde saw that it would be nice if you could invest in a paradise. There are certain possibilities for this, but I will not take that up from the Parliament's pulpit. It's not just to sum up a debate that goes from a sleeping car on the Südlandsbanen via Lisbeth Salander and to a whole new management strategy for the fund. It's not my job either. But I think there are certain points that are reason to stop, which, rather, what was thought to be the starting point for this debate, on which the Council of State was involved, than it was because of 2008, namely the ethical guidelines that have been evaluated. Now, social investment should be promoted in a slightly different way by using the three instruments of ownership exercise, negative filtering and outsourcing of companies. It will be very exciting to follow how this ownership exercise will work in practice. It's ambitious – I really would say that. I think the department and the government have put the list high. They're supposed to be proud of that. It's got Storting's approval. We have a great fortune to manage. It gives us a responsibility. The representative of Klungland thought that the Christian People's Party and the Left were limping after the Advance Party and the Right. We do not do that at all, either in this case or in other matters. What's even more important is that as a nation in these areas, we should in no way hold back. We haven't done that, and we're not going to do that. Here we have big, ambitious goals of being a world-class fund. We've been -- we're still going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1002	The representative Heikki Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1005	I have to take the floor because Christian Tybring-Gjedde tried to explain why he deeply disagrees with me. I am so sorry that the Advance Party will be allowed to paint with a broad brush that everyone else is wrong, and that we – the Advance Party – are absolutely amazing. But at the moment you start asking questions about what the Progress Party really thinks, they're unable to answer. Then my question is: if it is such that the Progress Party believes that the management of the oil fund is rigid, that the exclusion of companies is rigid, then give me examples of the companies that the Progress Party believes are rigorously excluded. It's like, in the case of nuclear weapons, it's okay. That's where the Progress Party stands for itself. They believe that in a world where we want less nuclear weapons, we should start making money from the Norwegian side on more nuclear weapons. It's not about ethical imperialism, as the Progress Party now says. It's about us wanting to have control of what we're making money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1010	The representative Tybring-Gjedde has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1013	To the representative Holmås: I have been standing on this pulpit for four years now and have rammed up the companies that I believe should get back into the pension fund. This is particularly true for enterprises in the defence industry. Lockheed Martin is the world's largest technology company with 300 00 employees. It was the company that got us to the moon. It is the company that contributes to the space industry across the globe. It is a company that is the main cooperation partner with the Kongsberg Group and with Nammo. That's one example. BAE is another example. Northrop Grumman is a third example. EADS is Europe's largest defence company, which we buy weapons from every single day. We are acting for 10 billion kroner – for 7 billion kroner from companies that Kristin Halvorsen and the representative Holmås believe are unethical. This is the inconsistency. These are companies that carry the world forward, but from which Kristin Halvorsen and the representative Holmås believe we should be excluded. We believe that to be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1019	Only a small case information at the end. It is not that we have ethical guidelines according to the representative Heikki Holmås' or my condolences or daily ideas. It's the way that a thorough job has been done with the ethical guidelines over a long time. They're anchored in Stortinget. It's about not contributing to unethical behavior, and it's about a basis that was very much in agreement when the Stortinge dealt with it, including the Advance Party. That's why we've had them since 2004. So if the representative Tybring-Gjedde wants to give the impression that there's work going on using the input method, it's absolutely completely wrong. The Ethics Council gives the Ministry of Finance recommendations based on the design of the ethical guidelines. The reasons for each case are published if they recommend a sale or if they come to a different conclusion. So putting the work on the ethical guidelines in such a mess as the representative Tybring-Gjedde is now doing, the Storting has not deserved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1026	After such a strong contribution from the Progress Party and the fact that I did not say anything about ethical guidelines, there is a greater need for that. It is clear that the Progress Party does not wish to give priority to activities. Only one makes money, it's the same thing that businesses do, or which countries they're part of the activity. I have to say it is quite strong when the Progress Party here draws arms exports as the greatest example of what we should go into – as if not arms exporters around the world have consistently brought with them the strongest capital forces! We are seeing today how arms exporters increase their activity, get their funding and earn their money in a world that is very unstable. I believe it is other companies that need Norway's vigilance, and that we should not support this further. I don't understand that it's going to be a task for the Norwegian people to give further priority to this development. The centre party is aware that it is difficult to provide ethical guidance – it is a difficult matter. I think the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance are doing a good job – trying to find ways out of this to make the market economy more social and ethical. It's a work of praise. I think it's very strong to hear from Stortinget's pulpit that the biggest criticism of our finance minister is that she's not helping us to invest more in arms production around the world. That is very much said, and I expect most people to hear it, including those in my constituency who live in Kongsberg, and who depend on the production of weapons – but a weapon production within ethical frameworks and with the rules that exist. The Minister of Finance balances this in a good way – in the world of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1035	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde is quite right that we have been discussing this for four years – and we have been doing a couple of hours today as well. But I have to admit that it's still unclear to me, and that it's hanging in the air now, too, if the Progress Party at all wants ethical guidelines. They say yes to that, but I wonder if a representative of the Progress Party can explain from the Chair which countries they want in the event to withdraw from – and why – what border steps they have made, which companies they want to withdraw from, and which border steps have been taken in this regard. Or is it that the Progress Party does not want you to withdraw from something, and that they do not want to have ethical guidelines? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1042	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and No 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See pages 3422 and 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1059	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1066	This proposal by the Progress Party refers to today's recession, and it is considered to be an argument for improving the conditions for entrepreneurs. We have had similar proposals for treatment earlier in the period, but with a more general justification. For example, it was considered to establish an industrial deduction for self-employed workers, in line with employees' minimum deductions, as late as 29 April last year, when we dealt with a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives of the Left. As you can see from the setting, the evaluations from the different batches this year are the same as last year. The proposalers consider that it is appropriate to consider setting up a scheme in which the operator of an individual enterprise may choose between a minimum deduction equal to the minimum deduction for ordinary employees and the deduction of actual expenditure, or alternatively it should be considered to introduce a scheme in which individual enterprises are granted an economic deduction equivalent to the tax relief contained in the minimum deduction for ordinary employees. In the case of tax deductions for pensions, the proposers believe that individual enterprises should have the same right to deduct as other employees of an enterprise. They also believe that one should consider whether individual enterprises and employees should not be treated in the same way in terms of social rights such as sickness benefits, unemployment benefits and pay guarantee schemes. The setting contains several suggestions from the opposition parties, and I expect them to explain them themselves. The majority of the Committee, composed of the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, argue that the structure of a well-designed tax system should not be altered by the economic cycle. The government has stressed that tax measures resulting from the short-term economic survey should be targeted and adapted to the extent of the economic downturn we are now facing. The same majority share the view of the Minister of Finance that the economic situation does not provide a basis for a re-examination of the issues raised in this proposal for a representative. Otherwise, we show that the current government has implemented several changes in this period to improve the conditions of self-employed workers, for example. entitlement to 100 pst pregnant and parental leave. coverage, up to 6 G, and that the tax deduction for pension contributions was doubled in 2006, from 2 pst. to 4 pst. With regard to the proposal to apply an industrial deduction scheme to self-employed workers, our assessments are the same as one year ago, namely that the minimum deduction for employees is a deduction from private costs for the acquisition of income in general income. Self-employed persons are deducted from the actual costs of entrepreneurial income, so that net entrepreneurial income is included in general income. The majority believe that if a person wishes to provide relief to traders by increasing the deductions in general income, a choice should be made to increase the deduction of the person rather than the minimum deduction. The rationale for this is the distributive effect, by providing a progressive income tax through such deductions, so that those with low incomes receive the lowest tax rate of total income. For the concepts of greater non-discrimination in social benefits, such as: health benefits, unemployment benefits and pay guarantee schemes, we show that there is a great difference today between the contributions to the financing of these schemes. If a person wishes to change these conditions, it is necessary to calculate the costs. Increased fees will obviously be necessary if the rights of this group are extended in relation to today. For the whole of this group, in that case, expenditure increases imposed on compensation for the current voluntary supplementary insurance system will be taken into account. Finally, I would like to point out that improvements in social security rules have a cost. Such changes therefore need to be assessed against other proposals and their costs. We believe that such assessments are part of an ordinary budgetary process. There is no disagreement on Stortinget that entrepreneurs are welcome and wanted – even what they get. So how are things in Norway? Innovation Norway announced on 7 May this year that Norway was close to the founding head in 2008. The figures were found in the GEM report, from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor, and led to a look-up in Today’s Business with the title ‘Founders on the Advancement’. Overall, Norway ranks fifth among the countries surveyed. Denmark is, for example, in the 16th place. Norway is particularly prominent in the use of new technologies. We have Europe’s highest share, only after Ireland, of early-stage entrepreneurship with a potential for 20 or more jobs. As you can see, the framework conditions for this type of activity in Norway are not bad. With the reasons I have given earlier in my speech, on behalf of the majority parties, I would recommend that the proposals in Document No. 8:74 is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1089	Norway is now in an economic downturn. It's a global crisis. And if there's one group of people who can get Norway out of the crisis, it's founders with good ideas. It's just looking at history in the last few hundred years -- how societies have gotten wealth and growth. It is then important that we have legislation that supports entrepreneurs, does not prevent entrepreneurs. What we in the Progress Party want with this proposal for a representative ‘on better rules for sole proprietors and entrepreneurs operating individual enterprises’ is that they must be respected and treated under the same conditions as employees receive today. It's not like that. The majority of entrepreneurs start on their own with the form of an individual enterprise – especially because it is easy to start, there are few start-up costs and there are other benefits, such as: the discharge of costs to the auditor. Unfortunately, many disadvantages are also: There is a very high risk, and one alone has full responsibility for the company's obligations. Activities of individual enterprises do not provide unemployment benefits for owners. Individual enterprises provide a basis for sickness benefits from popular security, but only 65 pst. from Day 17. Individual-person enterprises do not grant the owner rights equivalent to those which the operator would have obtained if he established a limited liability company or a Norwegian-registered Foreign Enterprise, so-called NUF. The business of an individual enterprise will also miss other benefits that ordinary employees have, such as: minimum deductions on the declaration of pay-guarantee scheme tax-free treatment insurance duty-free continuing training entitlement to care allowance for sick children 100 pst. care allowance coverage and training money coverage We can certainly say that women are more affected than men, with a greater proportion of women than men choosing to start individual enterprises rather than other forms of organisation. All the members of the Financial Committee have received a letter from the Confederation of Enterprises. You would think that the individual parties had taken care of reading it. They support and confirm what we in the Progress Party address in our proposal. The company association has also calculated how much a founder loses on this. If an entrepreneur operates an individual enterprise and has an entrepreneurial income of DKK 400000, he pays a whole of NOK 32500 more in taxes than an employee with the same income. In addition, there is a higher social security charge. The company also comments on the letter of reply from Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen to Stortinget dated 12 May 2009, from which I would like to read. The Minister of Finance argues against the minimum deduction for traders with the following: «Activists are deducted from the actual costs of entrepreneurial income, so that net entrepreneurial income is included in general income». The association then answers: ‘Unfortunately, the argument is not sufficient for the actual conditions. For example, those who are self-employed may: a maximum deduction of 6,000 km per car used in industry per year, although they can prove a multiple driving distance and have only a standard amount of 1500 kroner per year for home offices. In a number of other areas, too, there are very limited opportunities for costing costs related to industry.’» The Association of Norwegian Accounting Officers (NARF) also fights for better conditions for sole proprietors. It's a union you should listen to. An investigation they carried out for a period of time showed that self-employed persons in individual enterprises are penalised by up to NOK 40000 at additional costs compared to those in employment. In these times of crisis, there is a lot of talk about investing in research, but for entrepreneurs with good ideas that run individual enterprises, there are other rules. The self-employment of traders is not included in the costs that form the basis for tax deductions under the Tax FUNN scheme. By comparison, the same person receives a tax deduction if he organises the operation as a limited liability company and pays a salary to himself. There are about 20 000 NUFs, i.e. Norwegian registered Foreign Enterprises, registered in the Brønn Island Health Registers now. Is there a development of government parties proud of? The rapporteur said that it is very good that is happening in Norway, and that is what it is. Many new companies have been established in recent years. But they are established because of the tax changes that have forced people to start corporations. Then there have actually been several bankruptcies. In conclusion, I address the proposals we are promoting with others and alone. I would also like to point out that we support proposal No. 5, promoted by the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1152	The representative Jørund Rytman has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1155	We politicians should do what we can to enable people to succeed in creating jobs for themselves and for others. Equal treatment for workers and new entrants reduces the risk of innovation, not least for women wishing to start their own business. Therefore, the right is in favour of proposals that contribute to facilitating entrepreneurship and innovation and will therefore commend the Progress Party for this initiative. The right is fully in agreement with the rapporteurs, and what is at the heart of this proposal is that improved framework conditions for individual enterprises can help to create a basis for new future growth based on good ideas and innovation. The rapporteur mentioned in his introduction that Norway is at the founding head. It's very good, but it's hardly the government's profit. And it's very special for all the people around Norway who work every day to create jobs, that the government parties stand on the pulpit of the Storting and take credit for it. It is also a cross-section of thought that the country's largest government party does not want to participate in the debate, has not signed up to the list of speakers, when we are now discussing how we can make even better provision to ensure the rights of entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, the Government is doing too little to facilitate more people to choose to set up their own business. It is also a pity to see that the Government does not see the value of more people wanting to start their own business and contribute to increased value creation and a better welfare. A proof of this is precisely the case we are dealing with today, where the Government opposes all the proposals. And it surprises me that the Government is going against all these proposals, proposals that are about improving the measures and strengthening the rights of those who are doing their own business. There is an unfortunate signal the government sends to all those who want to take risks and who choose to contribute to strengthening well-being. It's not unwilling these people should be met by the authorities, it's benevolent and a pat on their shoulders for the effort they're making. On the right, the proposers believe that good action is being taken, especially for the smallest enterprises and for self-employed people, and we believe that there is a need for a new and much more offensive policy for the self-employed. It is vital for many that the social rights are in place if you are to take the step of establishing your own business. For this reason, the Right wants to be involved in supporting the proposals of the Progress Party, including: with regard to the assessment of a greater level of equal treatment of individuals with employment with regard to social rights. In this context, however, it is also important to stress that funding needs to be seen, and not least the possibility of voluntary membership needs to be considered. The right also supports the proposal for a review for the same group with regard to the other fiscal conditions and the possibility of ensuring the security of unforeseen events. Together with the Christian People's Party, the Right has promoted its own proposal where we want to have a system of nutrition deductions for self-employed people. I take this up with me the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1176	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1179	Document No 8:74 from the Progress Party on better rules for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs operating individual enterprises is a very important topic. Some of the background to the document is that, under current tax rules, it is economically advantageous to organise its limited financial liability business, such as limited liability companies, rather than as individual enterprises, where the owner and the performer have unlimited financial liability. Should there be a tax difference, the difference should be in the favour of the sea-going trader because of the greatest risk there. I want to start with, as the rapporteur was in the case, that there have been two important things in this period of government, two important things that the red-green government got into. The first was in 2008, when the entitlement of the sea-going sole proprietor to maternity and maternity benefits was increased to 100 p.p. coverage up to 6 G, while increasing the social security charge to cover the additional costs of the measure. Furthermore, in 2006 the right to deduct the contribution pension was doubled from 2 to 4 pst. It is an important matter that is well received. This government prioritised it among other priority measures and got through to it, and we in the Center Party are very pleased about that. The first point of the proposal concerns the deductions from activity of individual enterprises. We have minimum deductions for employees, and we have personal deductions – or what is called class deductions. The deduction from general income is granted regardless of whether the income is wages, salaries, capital, pensions or entrepreneurial income. These types of deductions result in progressive income taxation, so that those with low income receive the lowest tax rate as a percentage of total income. The deduction has increased from 1992 from NOK 21 700 to NOK 38 850 in 2008. It is a strong increase, but much lower than the minimum deduction. If a person wishes to provide relief also to traders by increasing the deduction in general income, a choice should be made to increase the deduction of the person rather than the minimum deduction. In order to ensure equal treatment between employees and seafarers, it should be considered that a higher deduction should be made from the general income of the enterprise. As mentioned above, the minimum deduction has increased significantly in the last year. A corresponding increase in the amount of the person deduction has not been made. This therefore increases the need to assess a higher deduction from the entrepreneurial income of maritime operators. That assessment is precisely to establish that the taxability principle must apply to maritime operators as to employees. So to the next point in the document, the proposal of social rights. Contribute to the financing of popular security through, inter alia: the social security contributions are different for employees and traders. Benefits from social security for employees and different maritime workers are very different, where employees have the highest social security contributions. The members of the Committee of the Governments of the Parties say that it would be reasonable to consider increased fees for maritime operators in order to extend the rights of that group in the area of public security. The tax deduction on the contribution pension for traders was increased from 2 to 4 pst. in 2006. The short period since that increase makes it difficult to assess the need and consequences of any change in this rate. The work of increasing minimum deductions and improving social security rights for maritime traders is prioritised by the Centre Party more than the improvement of tax deductions for deposit pensions. Finally, a very important theme is the fiscal and social framework for maritime traders versus employees. Most entrepreneurs start out as self-employed workers, many times through part-time work, to try out something other than paid work from other employers. Greater safety as a sea-going operator, including: In the case of disease, it is important to stimulate more people to step into the ranks of entrepreneurs – which is something that all parties are talking positively about. But it's demanding. It requires greater equity, greater saving, greater long-term sustainability. It is a very different culture to go into the ranks of the maritime traders. Therefore, it is very central that the framework conditions are facilitated. The centre party is now very concerned with concrete proposals for improvements. For us, it is important that there be under two safe slogans: Do your duty, demand your right – and tax by ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1200	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1217	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to 3 lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and 5 lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1228	This is a very big issue on an economic scale. It is estimated that at the time you want the aircraft that is now recommended as a combat aircraft, it will cost NOK 145 billion. It is a matter of utmost importance because an effective defence of Norway requires a modern combat aircraft. This has been used in the past by the Stortingen during the examination of the long-term programme of defence and in a number of other contexts. So the question to be addressed now is not whether we need a fighter weapon. Today we have F-16, which serves us well. At some point it will reach its technical life span, and the discussion is not whether to replace it, but when and with what option. We are not legally bound in this case until 2014, and Stortinget is brought to the attention of the case again in 2011. Nevertheless, this decision is crucial. During the hearings, the Council of State indicated that this could be described as a matter of suffrage. Yeah, that's the way it is. There have been two alternatives – after the Storting decision today, there is only one. We know that there are not many alternatives to the choice to be made now. That's why the race is clear. Everyone except the Advance Party is ready to make this choice today. Given the size of the case, it is more than surprising that the government has nothing more to say than that it can be expressed on 11 pages. Of course it's too small. However, the Committee has been able to supplement the assessments by asking, by having consultations, by making trips and by digging down into the major document bases we have asked for. Therefore, it has been possible to supplement the Government's brief proposal, so that the Storting should now be able to take a position on the matter. The fact that the Progress Party has failed to follow this process is more than surprising. I'll come back to this. The government has had three main criteria to consider the new fighter plane, from which I am not in doubt that it is the military performance that is the most fundamental. In this case, we have a clear and unambiguous military professional assessment: it is only F-35 that meets the Norwegian needs. The Swedish option, JAS Gripen, is not ranked as number two, it is to be considered not current. That doesn't mean it's a bad plane or it's not suitable for purposes other than Norwegian, but the point for us is that it doesn't meet the Norwegian needs. What we're going to get is a fifth generation fighter plane. Many suggest that this is a fighter plane that will be produced in large units, not least because it looks like the Americans are putting one of the other advanced fighter planes aside, the so-called F-22. So we're pretty sure that we're making a choice that others are making to a large extent. The second criterion that has been taken into account is economics, and there are huge numbers out there and going. During the presentation of the Government's recommendation, I noticed that both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister put great emphasis on the economic aspects, namely that F-35 is going to be cheaper than the Swedish alternative. There has been a discussion on this in retrospect, and the Storting must make up an opinion as to whether this argument is important. At my discretion, when there is only one aircraft recommended from a professional military point of view, it is no longer the economic issue that determines. Or another way: it's not like we wanted to buy a plane that wasn't recommended, even though it should be a little cheaper than what's recommended. For this reason, the Committee has not been deeply involved in the discussion that has just come to light on the economic situation, because it cannot be what might tip around an assessment of which aircraft serve Norway’s defence needs best. Now it's like the numbers that are there show that the Swedish option is more expensive, and a lot indicates that it's right. But at my discretion, there is no need for Stortinget to go deep into this issue. There are a lot of obvious things that speak for the sake of correct math, for example. that such a central component as the upgrade of the aircraft for which we are going to purchase – let's say – 15-20 years, in that case could be distributed to significantly more users than those who were going to buy the Swedish option. At my discretion, there is an important point here that the Government addresses to a very small extent. I think it would be vulnerable to Norway as a small nation to become the largest user of a version of a fighter plane. It is safer to buy something that many others will also buy, and if there are not many others, then at least something that will be produced in a significantly larger number than that option will be on. Now there's been a debate in the press about this that might be confusing. I believe that this is largely due to the fact that the proposition at this point is very scarce. Less than one side of something with a lifetime cost of DKK 145 billion is nowhere to be found. But it has been possible to dig into this and find out how the contract is designed at this point, and it is, as far as I can judge it, designed so that this is the best way to do it. It's an incentive contract, and all of the partners that buy the same configuration in the same year are going to have the same price. There is no element of ‘wheeling and selling’ in this price, and I think it is reassuring. But here's an important problem issue that could probably have been explained better than the proposition put up. The third element, and it cannot turn around the purely professional assessment, is that it is important that such a large investment also benefits Norwegian jobs. This contract is a different design from the traditional buy-back design, the so-called best value principle, where there is no guarantee that we will get contracts, but if you are the best and cheapest, you also have great opportunities. This is probably also a system that is socio-economically better than the traditional buy-back system. But it's about there being enough openness and enough transparency in this system that we can keep in mind that it's really the best value principle that's being applied. Attention must be paid to the American suppliers throughout the period. I think everyone is aware of that. Therefore, there is a great task now ahead of us by ensuring that Norwegian suppliers are in the position to take advantage of this great opportunity that has now been given us. I would like to underline the point that is also in the vote, namely that the fact that we are now early out and making a roll-out will put us in an even better starting position for what is going to be a long-term work to obtain Norwegian contracts as far as possible. This is also a reason to stress that making new releases now is not a good idea. So I have to add a couple of points in connection with this, because the main question itself stands for me as pretty easy. I'm not a moment in doubt that it's the F-35 that's the right choice, and I'm glad that a large majority in the Grand Duchy today is going to adopt this, but there are three more things: One is the treatment of the Swedish alternative. There is much to be said, both when they were informed, about the quality of the dialogue and about what was said about the Swedish option. I would like to emphasize again that it is not in any way a bad plane, but it is equipped for other needs than those we have. I think the government could have dealt with this question – to put it this way – with something more diplomatic than what came out. The second thing I want to say is that acquiring new fighter aircraft means a big economic decision. That means that in a defence budget that is under pressure, it's important that we get a special deal on the fighting aircraft issue, that is, on the investment itself. I want to say here, as I say in a lot of other cases, that it is now important that we form a proper perception of what is a proper operational level of defence. We are still getting assurances from both the defence minister and the head of defence that we have found the right level. It's okay, but they never provide us with material that allows us to check the numerical basis of whether we agree or disagree with this statement. This leads me to the third point, because this is going on and on again, and it's that it's not being informed well enough and deep enough about important defence issues. I think this proposition is one of several examples of this. I therefore took up with the Council of State in a spontaneous question hour not long ago if she would now be able to stand behind a transparency reform in the Defence. I was told that I should read the papers better. I should perhaps have been raised over this answer. I didn't. I'm going to take it as nicely as I can, but there are perhaps some things the Minister of Defense has not quite got hold of if she thinks that this can be solved by reading newspapers better. I believe that there is something fundamental out there and going: in order for the defence to have alliance partners in Norwegian society, it is important to be more open about the dilemmas, to put more alternatives on the table, and to create more opportunities for participation in the defence policy debate. We're past the stage where we're for or against the Defense. It's now a question of how we're going to develop it further. If the defense wants friends, you have to be open about this. I'll get back to this in other contexts. So a couple of closing remarks. There is a broad majority behind this position. That means that the fighter question after this is not in play, and that we've taken the vote and are ready to move on. Therefore, I am pleased that the Right and Government parties stand together, although I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that the comments of the Right in the matter may acknowledge some more of the Council's opinions than the Workers' Party and the SV's comments do. But as I have said many times before, every time my good colleague Bjørn Jacobsen has a finger in the game, I have to stand up to defend the Government. I have also done so in this case. So to the Progress Party: I must say it surprises me that it is not possible for the Progress Party after such length of consideration in the Committee – they could even have had more time if they wanted to – to participate in this decision. When you want to send the case back to see if the second option would have been good enough, because that is what the reality is about, it means that you are prepared to set aside unique professional-military assessments. One just has to find out that the Progress Party is that. The second concerns security policy. I believe that if the Swedish option had been clearly the best and least expensive, we should be able to justify it from a security policy point of view. Now, when we pick American, there's no doubt that it strengthens a traditional bond that I thought the Progress Party was paying attention to, but it's not that important anyway. The third is, you are now willing to play the fighter aircraft by not making a decision on the matter. There are also a few of the arguments that I, as the rapporteur, must say, cannot be contradicted. These include: a use of figures to compare the lot of apples and pears, where there is no relevant basis for comparison, and where there is no difference between the figures claimed by the Party of Progress. The second is the argument that Stortinget has never been in the opinion that our fighter aircraft must have so-called autonomous capacity. It takes the Progress Party a lot of time to argue against. Yes, it is true that the word ‘autonomous’ does not appear there. But if the Progress Party reads what they themselves quote, it will be seen that the term “self-evident” is in the documents. And then you wonder how it turns out that the Progress Party does not then get the terms ‘autonomous’ and ‘autonomous’ to go completely together. This is a great decision, an important decision, a very correct decision, and I am pleased that it is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy that today takes a stand and makes sure that the matter does not come into play.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1277	I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the committee for a thorough job as case rapporteur for this major and important matter. After all, we're talking about the biggest investment that Fastlands-Norway has ever made, and for the committee chairman, it's a historic thing to end the big business. I had originally intended to ask the representative Petersen what he thinks about the Progress Party's handling of this matter. I've got a very good answer to that, so I'm going to come up with another question. In view of this matter, which is so big and important, I would like to ask how the Right looks at the possibility of being able to govern together with the Advance Party when, in such a big and important case, they do not even find reason to cooperate on the best solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1284	I understand that it is time that I got out of the house when I haven't even managed to friend myself to where to take the lines from. I do what we did in the old days, but it's going to work. Thank you so much for your nice words. It has been a big and interesting matter to work with, and I am very happy that we have come to an agreement. What I believe about the position of the Progress Party, I have stated, and I believe as the case-law rapporteur that I should do so. With regard to the consequences for the harvest, it is not my job to think too much about it, but we must note that it is difficult for a government to work towards a majority in the Grand Duchy. Here you have a clear majority in Stortinget, and I expect the Progress Party will not do anything to put this matter back into play. In this way, I'm probably a little surprised that on top of all the other things where you're in a clear minority and if you want to rule against the bulk of the population, you find another one. But it is not my job to answer the wisdom of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1293	To the last point, when it comes to the wisdom of this, I guess today's polls show that most people think it's quite wise what the Progress Party is doing, and perhaps even more so very unwise what the Right does, since we go by. Today is twice the size of the Right. The chairman of the Committee has also done a very good job. I would also like to clarify that, even if we disagree a lot. These include: interesting to observe that he is quite uninterested in the economic aspect, but it may now be. The right was very critical when this proposition was handed over to Stortinget, but since then the Right has agreed to the Workers' Party and the SV's comments and conclusions. Right-wing claims that good information has been obtained through the examination of the case. On the basis of this I can ask: Can the Right explain who has made the offer on the JSF? Is it the U.S. authorities, or the company Lockheed Martin? In view of the estimates for the price of JSF, how can it be said that it is safer than the guaranteed price given by the Swedish authorities? Because economics isn't that interesting, maybe it's... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1304	The representative Width has misunderstood a few points. I am still critical of the case itself. My point is that the committee, just by taking as much time as it has done, has had the opportunity to go into the substance thoroughly and form a separate opinion of it. Therefore, the setting has been significantly longer than the proposition, and therefore we have also spent months on it. This could also be the case with the Progress Party. We've all got bigger paper piles than what we appreciate, but that makes it possible for Stortinget to have an independent opinion. When Width says that I consider the price to be a less important question, it is simply because we can't get there that we buy other than one plane that is recommended for professional military. That is why, in my opinion, there is no decisive criterion if the cost of living is 140, 145 or 150 billion kroner. We don't buy another plane than what we can use in a satisfactory way, even if it should be a couple of billion cheaper. That's the point. Now is the time, but if Width comes back during the debate, I'll explain to him how the contract is designed, as we've got it explained, and as the Progress Party certainly already knows.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1315	It has been a pleasure for four years in the Defence Committee to see that the Right and SV are an open-minded party when it comes to the Defence. We're also the two anti-repurchase parties in Stortinget, and it's slipping me. At the same time, there was nothing particularly better in the previous period when one also had a combat aircraft process. Then there were no providers and no competition. When the representative Petersen calls for a reform of openness, does the representative see it as a new crime which he himself has begun, or is it a follow-up to the previous policy of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1322	I'm not going to brag about any kind of new crime work. I've only made some thoughts after this four-year period, where the flight purchase is just one example, and perhaps the least important example. I am equally concerned with the annual budgets. Not least, thoughts arose after the treatment of the long-term programme last year. The so-called FS 07 is an excellent document in which there is no doubt that the reasoning is linked and where there is a close link between the premise and the conclusion. But the point was that we were never dedicated to the basic material, which made it possible to think, alternatively, on a sufficiently good professional basis. As a lawyer, I'm not always concerned with what people mean, but terribly concerned about why they mean what they do. When we don't know what the underlying thoughts are, I think we're on the wrong path. And that's exactly the kind of thinking that I think we need to do more in the defence sector, also because the traditional loyalty bias probably makes it less volatile here than in some other sectors of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1333	In recent months, the Defence Committee has carried out a comprehensive treatment of the largest investment in defence, namely the purchase of new fighter aircraft. It has been a thorough and long political and professional military treatment. It started as familiar with four candidates. In recent times, only two of the candidates continued to compete until the goal – namely, the Swedish JAS Gripen NG and the US F-35 JSF. It was the JSF that finally turned out to be the best clear fighter aircraft option for Norway. For me, it is very positive that there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy today who are going to say yes to starting negotiations for the acquisition of the F-35. Only the Advance Party protests and opposes to deal with the matter. They will send the matter back to the Government. If we read the settings and comments of the Progress Party, it's a strange experience. Page up and down they quote documents from the Government, but the conclusion of the Progress Party is hard to read. What are they going to do? I hope we get along with that during this debate. They will send the matter back to the Government. Yeah, that's okay – but then what? Are the two candidates going to re-arrival the matter again? Is it JAS Gripen – the Swedish plane – the Progress Party wants to buy? Or is it that it is bad to buy planes now? Now it actually repeats the same thing as it did when we were to buy new transport aircraft. Then they also voted against. I hope that those who are concerned with the Defence notice this. The Labour Party has always stressed the need for Norway to have a combat aircraft capable of asserting our national sovereignty, controlling airspace and creating conditions for other military forces to operate. The old F-16 planes are getting worn out. Now it's time to think about replacing them. Norway must also be able to establish a contribution of the size of a squadron according to NATO requirements and standards. For the Workers' Party, it's important that the planes meet the defence needs, and so does the JSF. I want to commend the Council of State which has worked very hard since the government change in 2005 to facilitate real competition between the candidates concerned. I therefore note with satisfaction that the two offers we received last year were far better both in terms of content, price and industrial aspects than the case was just three years ago. In short, the competition has worked. I have always been concerned that an investment in this size should also provide good opportunities for the Norwegian industry. We must therefore have a special focus on industrial opportunities in the future. The assessments made in the selection of aeroplanes are not about ‘military requirements versus industry’, which some people seem to believe. We had already stated in the specifications that the military requirements and price should be superior to the industrial conditions. Because of course, it is not appropriate to buy a new plane that is clearly worse than the competitor, even if we were to get some jobs in exchange. The Battle Light Purchase is primarily about buying a fighter plane for the Defense. At the same time, this is a major national effort that will also benefit our industry. As long as repurchase — or ‘best value’ used in this case — is used in most countries for defence investment, Norway must also make use of it. In the vote, the majority will make clear demands for the negotiators. Therefore, I also feel a special need to say something about the conditions of the industry associated with such a large investment as this is. It is important that the purchase of aircraft produces significant industrial effects. Norway has extensive experience in repurchasing and industrial cooperation to help position the Norwegian defence-related industry in the international arena. This is the case with the F-16 purchase 35 years ago, this is the case with the frigatan acquisition and also with the transport aircraft that we have recently invested in. The size has tightened the requirements of those negotiating with Lockheed Martin on the industrial agreements during the course of the investigation. The Labour Party believes that in cooperation with the Norwegian industry we must be able to demand special attention in order to further develop the industrial plan that Lockheed Martin has already presented. I have no doubt that the government will have a special focus on the industrial opportunities associated with the chosen candidate during the contract negotiations. I trust that they will ensure that the follow-up of the industrial strategy is given high priority. It is important for us that possible deliveries to the aircraft, not least integration of Norwegian developed systems, are followed up in particular. American Lockheed Martin builds its industrial agreements that are known by what is called the best value, and not by repurchase. In other words, industrial participation in the JSF programme is based on the principle that the industrial and research and development environments of the participating nations will be given the opportunity to compete for direct missions to the development and production of the aeroplanes. That is, we cannot demand a repurchase. On the other hand, it provides significant opportunities for Norwegian suppliers that are competitive on quality and price. I believe that Norwegian industry is to the highest degree. Among other things, Kongsberg, Nammo and others, with their hundreds of subcontractors, has shown it for a long time. I believe that based on the needs of the defence, the industrial policy aspects of the acquisition of fighter aircraft will contribute to increased national value creation and development of a competitive business, as well as ensuring the defence of the necessary availability of competence, material and services in the future. The decision today is a long step towards a new fighter aircraft for Norway. It shall replace the wearer F-16, which is gradually becoming both worn and operated. Now let's make a drop-down. It's still a few years before we get the planes. It's important to make the right choices at the right time. It gives us advantages and opportunities that we might otherwise lose. I believe that what we do by making a choice today is right. Now we're well equipped to negotiate with Lockheed Martin, and we can buy the planes at the most favourable time in relation to, among other things. price. Now we're sitting with the good cards, and we're going to take advantage of them. Finally, I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee and the rapporteur, Mr Petersen, for his solid efforts to put in place a good attitude from the committee, which I can certainly recommend to the Stortinget to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1367	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1370	Let it be clear that the Progress Party does not believe that we should buy aircraft on the basis of repurchase agreements. But I remember that representatives from the government parties traveled around Norway and told me how great this was going to be, with repurchase agreements and not least new jobs. This was to ensure the jobs that were, and a development was to be made in the Norwegian industry. Then it is a little easy to ask the representative: how satisfied is the representative eye with the agreements that will now be concluded with the American company Lockheed Martin, compared to the agreements with JAS Gripen, because it was clear that there were many agreements with JAS Gripen and much was clear? The question is as I said: How satisfied is the representative eye with the agreements made with the Americans?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1377	I'm very pleased that we can now make a selection and start the process that we're going to start, where we also get the industrial agreements that Norway obviously needs, like very many other countries. So it was actually not that all of the agreements or the possibilities we saw in connection with the JAS Grip were agreements that had come into place the day we had said yes to the JAS Grip. It was intentional agreements that were very good, I admit, but it's probably also so that many of these had never been fulfilled. I have full faith that we with Lockheed Martin will be able to make the same good deals. We know that we have a business in the defence industry that is competitive and that can compete with everyone in the big world. That's why this is going to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1384	This is a very big issue, with a large economic scale, where it is important not only to include the Committee but also the wider environment in Norway in the resolution. Look at that background: Doesn't Signe Eyes think it's in the tightest shape when the government uses less than one page to justify a decision that's going to cost us NOK 145 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1389	I believe that the basis that we received from the Government was a good basis for making the decision that we are going to make today. But at the same time, it is also important for the Committee to address matters. I believe we have had the opportunity to do that. We've actually got documents, classified and unupgraded, in a bunch. I have a heavy pile in my office, and I can only admit that I haven't read everything. So it's not that we've been missing documents. But it is clear that this is a heavy and difficult matter, and therefore I am very pleased that the rapporteur has really gone into this, spent time, and we have now come up with a proposal on which I believe that both the forthcoming accumulation and accumulation can continue to rely. We're making a choice now where we're laying the groundwork for having a fighter aircraft here in Norway, and I think the majority position is a safe basis to lean on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1394	The representative Eye said that it was beneficial to choose, it was a cut-off now, it is good to negotiate. It's kind of hard to understand. It's a countdown, but it can't be as good to negotiate now. Now we're left with one choice. Who determines the prices now? Well, of course they're the producers. Doesn't the representative eye see that the state has played out the best cards by going to just one? You should have negotiated with two, that's my claim. Would the representative like to comment on this for a moment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1404	I believe that in previous times, among others: when it came to the transport planes, there was a situation in which we did not have the option to choose which we could have had, because a case was sent back and forth from Stortinget, as the Progress Party wants this case to be. I sincerely hope that we do not get a situation where this case cannot have progress, because it is clear that Norway serves to ensure that we now have clear processes in the future. It's actually like this, and the representative of Skumsvoll knows it very well, after visiting both Lockheed Martin and others in the United States, that if we can choose a certain time, the planes will be cheaper than if we're the first to buy, or if we're the last to buy. It's not that we can choose on the top shelf all the time when it comes to fighter planes, even if they're very expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1411	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1414	Just a little line for Signe Eye. She repeats and repeats to boredom that the Advance Party will not buy transport aircraft. But that's what the Progress Party has wanted for a long time, a long time ago, and for many, many years, but the Signe Eye and the Workers' Party have always voted against it, until they suddenly found out that now they would do it anyway. Then we might have been interested in looking at another option. But leave it alone, it's another case. The starting point for this case, perhaps the largest public investment Norway has ever made, is possibly the thinnest and least substantial proposition I have seen during my 12 years in Stortinget. The proposition is very inconclusive, giving rise to a feeling of arrogance and frustration among the majority of the defence committee. It resulted in hearings that did not provide much productive information. It also resulted in conversations with the producers concerned, which helped a little, but based on the fact that they were going to sell, we had to take the information for what they were worth, and they must well be defined as very subjective. The whole process has been strangely influenced by the fact that the Norwegian State has paid over $1 billion to Lockheed Martin for a so-called industrial agreement, so that Eurofighter withdrew from the process when they thought the result was predictable, that the American plane would be chosen – which it was. It's possible it was a right choice, but we don't know very much about it. That is the starting point of the view of the Party of Presidents on the matter. To put it simply, the government has chosen a fighter plane, but does not say why. Then I'd like to make Jan Petersen's words mine. He also says that he is not so interested in the election, but he is interested in why. He's not so interested in what people think, but he's interested in why. That's what the Progress Party also says: we want to know why we have to choose this plane. But we're not saying that might not be right. And anyway, you haven't told Saab or JAS Gripen, because they didn't know the criteria for the election before the election was made. They actually thought they'd get the delivery, until it was revealed that they didn't get it. In conversations with the Swedish producer, they made it clear that they did not know the criteria for the selection and that some people feel cheated. The Swedish Minister of Defence said it this way after the election was made and the criteria were made known: Is there such an aircraft you want? Then I understand that you have chosen the American plane, for such a plane we have never been able to deliver. The question then is: why did no one ever tell the Swedish producer about the criteria? – They claim they have never been presented before in retrospect. Then it is natural that one might suspect that Saab with Gripen has only been used as an alibi to have more than one offerer. Something else would have been a disaster. When the Norwegian authorities characterise the JAS Grip as expensive and bad, one must be allowed to wonder what the motive may be, and of course the manufacturer does not recognize himself in this characteristic. We still don't know how much the plane will cost. We know that $18 billion for 48 JSF is just an estimate, even though the Minister of Defense at some point in an answer to questions from the committee answered that it was a fixed price. A lot is secret in this case, so you can't comment on everything. But we know that in order to calculate the price, the Ministry has used the price level from January 2008 as the starting point. We also know that it has not been the Ministry of Finance that has been used as experts in this matter, but the consultant company Holte Consulting. Probably a good company, but where was the Ministry of Finance? Maybe not all, but many people know that in January 2008, the dollar rate was at a low level. In January 2008, 48 flights would cost 18 billion kroner. A few months later, with a higher dollar rate, the aircraft would cost 22 billion dollars. This at least seems unprofessional. What will the dollar rate be on the day we start paying on the planes? This can be expensive! If you were to buy aircraft today, JSF would not cost 18 billion kroner, says the manufacturer, but several more, because the price depends on the number of aircraft purchased. No aircraft has been purchased for the time being, because the aircraft has not yet been manufactured. In fact, the U.S. defense has suggested a larger purchase. Let's hope that's when the contract is signed in 2011. The Prime Minister has stated that JSF is the best and cheapest – the cheapest in relation to the JAS Grip, which had a guaranteed fixed price from the Swedish state of DKK 20 billion. Then, for various reasons, the Swedish plane, which at least the Swedish producer does not understand, is useless to Norway, according to the Minister of Defence's statement. So it is possible that JSF is best based on criteria that, as I said, the Swedish producer was not familiar with, based on secret models. We hope that those who have come to the result have access to secure data. Based on today's dollar rate — as a curiosity — JAS Gripen would be much cheaper than JSF. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the whole process has been unprofessional and marked by randomness. For that this is a very serious matter. At the end of the day, I am promoting the proposal of the Advance Party, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1438	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1443	So the progress party is going to move towards devaluation now. They are moving towards empowering the Government to negotiate with Lockheed Martin about the purchase of JSF. As I said in my post, they also voted against buying transport aircraft. The planes they wanted at the time, don't fly yet, and then you can respectfully not tell me that it is I who has slowed down the safety of the soldiers once we've got new transport planes that can take care of the safety of the soldiers we've been so occupied with. Then I also asked in my post that the Advance Party clarify more what they mean by sending the matter back. After listening to the article at Width, I perceive that what the Progress Party believes is that the JAS Grip was the cheapest. Is it really JAS Gripen you want to buy? Is it also the case that the Progress Party then believes that going against the professional military recommendations is right in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1450	The price is important, even if someone thinks it is not so important! We don't know the price of the planes, at least not the price of the US. We actually know it in Swedish, with a price guarantee from the state. When we want to send the matter back, it is because it has been treated very unprofessionally. It hasn't gone into the depths of what they really were supposed to do. We might have dug even deeper, but we haven't dug in the same place as others, who have then figured out why it is. But at least we haven't figured out why the case has ended the way it has, because it's been treated so unprofessionally by the ministry. We do not understand why this could not have been done in a much better way, so that at least the other manufacturer, Saab, had understood why they were not elected. They still don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1457	The professional-military assessment is clear: only F-35 covers the Norwegian needs. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will send the matter back. When you send the case back, it can only mean one thing: the party is ready to choose the Swedish alternative. Then the question is, is the Progress Party, which has tried to sell itself into a defence-friendly party, really ready to choose a plane that professionally does not meet our needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1462	That we are a defence-friendly party, shows our budget proposals, which are of a completely different size than the Right. But that's enough to tell you that the Progress Party is the most defence-friendly party in the country. We're not questioning the professional-military assessments, but what we're questioning is the way it's done, the way the department has treated Saab JAS Gripen in particular – a very unprofessional way. When such a large and serious manufacturer as Saab JAS Gripen believes they have been treated improperly, we must take it very seriously. Once we've dug in depth the answers we've got from them after talking to them, we actually understand that this has been done in a very bad way. Eurofighter pulled out early because they realized that it would be and that would work. I think they've done the right thing, because we see the result. The result may be correct, but we just don't know why! Jan Petersen is also very concerned – that we always have to know why.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1471	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1474	We in Europe have known for a long time that Americans cannot make cars, and now they have found out for themselves. The financial crisis has forced the US car industry into a completely different direction. They're going to make environmentally friendly cars. They're going to make cars that people want to buy. So the question of the financial crisis and the restructuring we see in the United States is going to have some consequences for our purchase of fighter aircraft and for the military industry. It can get, because we see that the Secretary of Defense who is part of the previous regime, Robert Gates, together with others, is really going through what they need for defense material in order to defend the United States. What one sees is they're sitting with a huge overcapacity in a range of areas, and he's already said that F-22 should be gone. There are 25 000 jobs in 44 countries in the United States. So the question is, will this process that is now going on in the United States work on the number of F-35s produced? It's too early to say anything about, but it's very likely. After all, it's a joyous blasphemy that one in the Western cultural community chooses not to sit on a huge overcapacity on fighter planes. But this can also lead to a higher price – which we do not know for sure what it will be – on the flight we might be going to buy, precisely because the price per. Aeroplanes may grow larger if the Americans themselves do well to produce e.g. 1000 fewer flights. The process in the United States is in progress when it comes to this, and there is no doubt that there is a good deal of uncertainty attached to it, and that's why we don't decide a flight purchase today, but gives the government the opportunity to move on and negotiate, with a small hook foot from here that one should have clear upper cost frameworks with it into the process. Because it's clear that for everyone in this room, it's important that you don't spend too much money on fighter planes, not least in relation to the other defenses as well. And then we know that in the United States' assessment of their capacity in air, sea and army, it's found to be very inappropriate, for example. with fighter aircraft in the two wars they are inside Iraq and Afghanistan – perhaps the worst in Afghanistan, with a revelation of the detection of civilian bombing, which is perhaps the biggest problem in terms of getting a certain kind of uprising for Western presence. This can in the long run lead to major changes in the way in which one should deal with international operations in the future. If, in February of two and a half years ago, rockets had been fired from the F-16 planes that came to our rescue in Meymaneh, Norway would probably not have been in Afghanistan today – that is, if it had been bombed against civilian targets. This is the consequence of one having a capacity that can be used to a small extent for what it was supposed to be. Then there's no doubt that there's a lot of agreement here in the hall that we're going to have a fighter weapon. From SV's point of view, we were clear that we preferred to see the lifetime extension of those we have, and we were very clear that we preferred to see Swedish planes if we were to buy new planes. It was largely based on a security policy assessment of even more Nordic cooperation, and also – for all things – when it comes to repurchase and industrial cooperation, we saw that it could be positive, although it was not the most important thing for SV, especially since we are opposed to repurchase. But this is the reason why we're in a completely different situation today, because NATO has dragons and Nordic cooperation is coming up more and more. The last time we bought fighter planes, we bought 72. The Americans built a huge infrastructure in Norway in this area by building battlefields, which they have of course laid down afterwards, because they saw that there was no need for the infrastructure on which billions of billions were used. We're in another situation. Therefore, it is also important that we have received good calls here for the flights to be purchased, of course to be seen in a Nordic context, and of course with a good starting point from what former foreign minister and defence minister Thorvald Stoltenberg has presented with good material. There may be huge sums to save on the number of flights, on perhaps common Nordic rule of the air, which we already have in part in Iceland, even though the Icelandic people don't want a 50-eye – but they don't. By operating more and more Nordic cooperation, we will be able to save enormously, and there will be clear consequences for the number of aircraft and, of course, for the number of fighter aircraft bases. If we look at the people in the Ministry of Defence and in the Air Force to count on it, we know that there will be billions of savings in a 20-30 year perspective if we can get good cooperation with our Nordic friends. Taken one from Rovaniemi, is one after 10 minutes over Kiruna and after 14 minutes in Lofothavet. Of course, money can be saved. Of course, the Nordic arrow can be built. We have to bring that with us when we're going to go in and negotiate. And even if we choose an American plane, it doesn't have to be an obstacle to Nordic cooperation. I don't think anyone in this room would say that. Then, of course, the committee has been in Sweden and got their different calculations of numbers. I will not go into it, but only record that both the Defence Committee and the producer JAS Gripen, and of course also the Minister of Defence in Sweden, have other ways to count on. I take note of that. I don't have the ability to refute what they say, but what we've got from material clearly demonstrates that the JSF is the best, and – as it looks – the cheapest plane. And that's the real price we're now going to see if the government is able to figure out, and if the offer we've been given really succeed. We've been in the United States, and I've asked Lockheed Martin straight out, assuming we've seen that the price was so low that we barely believed it, if they could keep that price. They have tried to document it in two or three ways, but it is clear that the most important work of the Government now for two years to come is to clarify that the price does not go off, and that we have some reasonable assurance that he will not do so in the future either when it comes to lifetime costs. Because it should be a clear objective for everyone here in the Chamber to spend the least possible money on this fighter aircraft capacity, both to make resources available for other purposes in society and, of course, also for the other defence sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1492	SV has previously been involved in the process of purchasing Swedish aircraft to expand Nordic cooperation – a cooperation between Norway, Sweden and Finland has even been announced in our largest newspaper. It's a little strange to think that while the predecessor of SV was thinking about anti-NATO attitudes and anti-USA attitudes, SV will now go in to buy aircraft from the United States. What's the reason for that? So one question finally: after almost four years in government, a red-green one, has SV become more NATO-friendly, or is it just by necessity one has been whipped away from one's own remarks?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1499	The main reason why we have our skepticism and are clear against Norwegian NATO membership is not that we are necessarily opposed to the organisation itself, but that we are an anti-military party in the way that we want to use the least possible of society's resources in military matters. SV is not a U.S. enemy party in any way, but it's clear that when we criticize the U.S. defence policy and parts of their foreign policy, it can be understood that way. But we know that other things, cultural impressions, etc., that come from the United States, in many ways, are hailed by the SV. We're not getting what we want now, a Swedish plane, but we're buying an American plane with a clear message to the government that this must be seen in connection with a Nordic defence cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1506	In the almost half of the year this case has been going on, it has been very interesting to follow the SV on their way up to today when they go in to buy American planes. That's pretty interesting. SV had many thoughts about how this should be done differently. As the representative has said, it was a lifetime extension, the purchase of Swedish aircraft and Nordic cooperation. It was said that the money we saved – that was a lot of money we could save – could be used, among other things. use on the railway. Then the question is, what really happened to SV? Why do they go along with the Right in this case and agree to buy American planes? That's kind of weird. I have to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1512	As I've done well before, there's no doubt that we'd rather have seen that one had gone for life-longing, so Swedish planes. Then came the result of the long process, where we had actually managed to create competition along the way. Someone might question it, but I'm going to say that socialists had to join the government to bring about an approximate competitive situation. We're happy with that process. Then it turned out that the candidate from the country we preferred saw water, didn't. In the process that has been going on, I have found no evidence that it is not correct. It looks like the American plane is the best, and it also looks like it's the cheapest. What is now the most important thing for us in SV is that that price really succeeds goal, and that he keeps goals in the long term. That is why we are going in today to give the Government the opportunity to negotiate and come back to Stortinget with an even more clear and clear price, so that we know what we are buying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1517	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1520	Let me first make it clear that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the four proposals for decisions on new fighter aircraft contained in the proposition. Having said that, I would like to point out that this proposition, seen from the Christian People's Party's point of view, testifies to a strong underestimation and lack of respect for the Storting as a decision maker and as a granting authority. There's a proposition sent from a confident majority government that knows that things are going through the Storting anyway. There is a minimum amount of information and numbers that are notified to the Stortinget. Proposition is very brief and provides little background information. There is an alarming lack of information to the Stortinget about such a large investment, the largest that we are going to carry out at least in this period. However, the Committee, through its consideration of detailed and numerous questions to the Ministry and in consultations, has made it clear that the proposal should be properly dealt with. It shall be chaired by a party other than that of the Committee. It amazes the Christian People's Party that the Progress Party in the Defence Committee has not been able to acquire knowledge enough to take a stand for the purchase of fighter aircraft. The Progress Party is well-known in all other committees to ask many and good questions that have also helped other parties to make decisions, but that is not clear here. I must say, I am amazed. The northern regions are strategically important areas for Norway. Fighting light capacity will be essential for monitoring, control and sovereignty-enhancing, inter alia: in these areas. Kampfly is essential to assert national sovereignty, control airspace and create conditions for other military forces to operate. Furthermore, on the basis of thorough professional assessments, it is not appropriate to extend the lifetime of today's F-16 further. It is therefore not a question of whether Norway should have a combat fleet barge, but more of a question of the timing of the phase-in of new aircraft. The Christian People’s Party agrees that the Stortinget will be presented with a new case concerning the acquisition in 2011 and that the phase-in of new aircraft will take place between 2016 and 2020. The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority of the Committee that the tender process itself has been conducted in a tidy manner, but we still understand that the Swedish authorities had expected to be informed earlier and more thoroughly about the Government's decision. The conclusions that first appeared in the media, in the view of the Christian People's Party, seemed very as bastant and acted more as a defense of the government's choice than as an objective justification for the flight selection. This approach has hardly benefited further Nordic cooperation. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the economic consequences of the acquisition of fighter aircraft. Today's operating level in Defence is already very strenuous, as the Christian People's Party pointed out when we dealt with the long-term plan of Defence. Regardless of the purchase price itself, which is to be covered outside the framework, we will point out that the operating costs of optimal operation of a new and modern combat aircraft will be a significant challenge within the current budgetary framework. The acquisition of new fighter aircraft therefore updates the need for a review and strengthening of the defence budgets in the future. Otherwise, it's hard not to wonder about SV's role in everything. The SV's representative in the committee has, to put it mildly, given mixed signals and switched between the rejection of American bombers and the cheering to buy the cheapest plane. After listening to Bjørn Jacobsen's posts in the hall, I find it very problematic to interpret whether SV is really prepared to buy fighter aircraft, even though it was underlined in the line change that the American plane is the cheapest. SV is convinced that it's the cheapest, and then we'll see how many planes that might be purchased in the future. When SV underlined the Nordic cooperation, the Christian People's Party very much agrees with that, but we will strongly stress from this speaker that the choice we are making today is the choice that applies to the future when there are questions about which aircraft we are going to bet on. The treatment of the government and government parties has not been reliable, but despite poor processes, the Christian People's Party will nevertheless vote in favour of the present proposals for decisions on new fighter aircraft for the Defence. We do that because of the defence needs and because there is a broad consensus that only the JSF meets the operational and technical performance requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1543	Unfortunately, the centre party is in the situation that we have not had a member of the committee. However, we have been well allowed to follow the process that has taken place in the case of the purchase of fighter aircraft, and we end up with the setting that exists today. I think it's important that we take a little bit of the story with us, even though several other speakers have done the same thing. It was adopted early in 2001 to prepare for the creation of new fighter aircraft. Then there were three current candidates: Eurofighter, JAS Gripen and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. For a while, it seemed that the process could actually end with just one candidate, but two candidates – Eurofighter and JSF – were successfully put in place for different reasons. So the government, through a fairly thorough process, has come up with a proposal that the US JSF aircraft should be the candidate we're going to focus on in the future. This option supports the Center Party. It should be noted that, before the start of the second phase of the negotiation process, in the contract negotiations, which will take place tentatively in 2011, there will be proposals from the Government of the Grand Duchy on powers of contract negotiations. It is only after completion of negotiations that the Government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for a contract for a final number of aeroplanes and a financing plan for the costs of this acquisition. For the Central Party, it has been important to carry out a careful analysis of what we expect from the aircraft we are going to have – what requirements must be met from the Norwegian side. The centre party has therefore been subject to operational requirements, such as an aeroplane capable of being capable of defence, fighting in the air, cutting properties, speed and reach, an aeroplane having sufficient sensor and surveillance power, an aeroplane suitable for air-ground combat, and an aeroplane having strategic characteristics in connection with cooperation with allies on interaction with other weapons. We've come to the conclusion that the aircraft you've ended up with just has the characteristics that we've prioritised. In the course of the debate, many have been concerned about the price of the plane. Of course, it is important, but in the current situation it should be noted that the US Secretary of Defense has said that the number of aircraft of type F-22 is likely to be significantly reduced, and that the number of aircraft of type F-35 can thus be increased, from the United States. It is of great importance to the purchase price. We have, of course, been concerned about the price, but not as a final decisive point today. We have been concerned with lifetime costs, price uncertainty and security of delivery. And it is important that Norwegian industry receives an industrial gain from this huge investment, which means that the aircraft that has the best “industrial package” has to gain a weight in the overall picture. In this process that we have been through, it has been important to stress that the future flight capacity requires an aeroplane with a multi- role function that can fill all the four air power categories counter-air, anti-surface, air support and strategic operations, and that all these categories are important. Combat light capability shall perform our national tasks throughout the conflict spectrum, including high-intensity combat actions, as well as the ability to establish a contribution of the size of the squadron in accordance with NATO requirements and standards. Extensive efforts have been made to determine the requirements that had to be imposed on the performance of the aeroplane and it has been underlined by the professional military that these requirements should be of decisive importance in carrying out the final qualification assessments between the candidates. With the crucial role fighter aircraft play in our defence structure, it is necessary to meet the operational requirements in the best possible way. Extensive quality assessments have been carried out and follow-up questions have been raised by the operators. An operational performance review and an assessment of the operational impact of candidates on different assignments have also been carried out. The centre party has stressed that only the JSF meets the Norwegian operational and technical requirements. External quality insurers support this assessment. That is the background for starting a negotiation process in order to acquire this new type of fighter aeroplane. The government has assessed it in such a way that in some specific areas the candidate Gripen NG does not meet the Norwegian requirements set for technical performance, etc. As a result, Gripen became a second choice in the competition, and is no longer a current candidate. It is especially in the areas of sensor capacity, opportunities to remain undiscovered and electronic warfare that the JSF meets the Norwegian requirements better than the Gripen. It's a message that we just get to take note of. It has been important for the Centre Party to be able to establish that the fighting aircraft process has been a process that has been strictly regulated and formal, in order to maintain the competitive aspect in line with ‘best practice’ in the procurement area. Competitors have been evaluated in a thorough, comparable and verifiable manner. The project has been subject to external quality assurance in line with the applicable provisions, process and methods in this field, and we note the statement that the flight flight process has been carried out in a professionally and ethically sound manner. Therefore, the Centre Party joins the conclusion contained in the suspension. Finally, let me also thank the case rapporteur for a very thorough process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1577	First of all, I note that the head of defence is going before all the main speakers have spoken and before the Council of State has taken the floor. I notice that the Council of State is sitting here, and she's the one who's constitutionally responsible, but I do, since I don't realize that the country is under attack, or that something particularly dramatic is happening, suggesting that this is one, what we'll call it, a little subtle behavior. So to the matter, it has been said by several speakers that this is the largest purchase in mainland Norway. That's in dollars, but not necessarily in percent. I would like to remind you that in the 1890s Norway bought armoured ships, because it was found absolutely necessary, and it cost up to 20 pst. by the State budget. A small and poor country found that there was a grip that was absolutely necessary in the current situation. Later, a poor country was able to decide to build a Bergensbane that was as large as the national budget. So in our country it's often been that we've decided that something is important, so we do. And the left sees it that in the situation we are in now internationally, with the commitment we have to geopolitically, both with missions outside the world and not least in our northern regions, we are strategically and historically in such a situation that we should make sure that we have certainty about a fighter weapon for a country like Norway. That's why the Left votes for the current setting. A lot can be said about the setting. Personally, I think the case rapporteur has argued, both those who go on the purely professional military, the economic and also the handling of jobs, in a very tidy and very real way. For my part, I would like to emphasise the following in addition to this: it may hardly be a disadvantage for Norway that we choose to buy a plane from our main ally, namely the United States, after a military assessment, after making an economic assessment as far as possible. And there can hardly be any disagreement in the Storting that, within the NATO alliance, it is clear that, in particular, the bilateral relationship Norway has with the United States, is very important for Norway's security policy and defence policy. I would like to stress that I do not see it as a coincidence, but as a good thing that we still have American pre-storers in Trøndelag, there are significant ally aircraft operations, for example. around the Ørland and that NATO’s AWACS operations are still taking place from Norwegian airports. It doesn't happen because it's the strategic image, but it happens because we're acting in Norway in a proper way. Relationships are built that go beyond the formal ones, and they are of value. So that way, the left is all satisfied with what we've done. And I would like to remind you of the following, since I have taken a Nordic perspective: I have traveled and studied the northern regions in recent years on behalf of the Stortinget. The Finns made it quite clear, in meeting them, when I visited Helsinki last year, that they had the choice between the JAS Gripen and the F-18 Hornet, and they chose the F-18 Hornet. And they made it very clear that that's how they chose. They did not find at any time that it would mean anything non-Nordic. On the contrary, they were actually more concerned, in clear terms, about the defence capacity of our neighbouring country Sweden than they were about defence development in Norway. And Finns can at least be attributed to the notion that they have some hard realism behind a lot of their experiences. They are expressed in a scarce language, so you have to understand the Finnish language, translated into Norwegian, to understand what they are saying. But that's in sum what they say and what they don't say, so you have a lot to learn. So they understood why they had to renew their fighter aircraft. In the opinion of the left, it's also the way we should do it. And then it's essential that the chosen aircraft satisfy both international and national scenarios. The national scenarios have to do with our sovereignty in our difficult coastal areas and in our northern regions. So that's clearly important. I have also noticed that the chairperson of the defense has paid great attention to the fact that we are going to have a fighter aircraft. At that point, I fully agree with him, in the same way that I agree with the main conclusion of the Government, as it is presented here today. Then you can always wonder in this world what American defence budgets will look like. But if you're going to start with that, you have to sit and wonder what Swedish defence budgets will look like in a few years' time, what Sweden's relationship with its very significant defence industry, which was a bet they chose as a neutral country, will look like in a few years' time. If you keep doing this, you can bring a lot of "if" into the air. And if you do what I do, which is around some central European politicians talking about defence, I realize that it's more willful and able to talk about which headquarters you're going to have than spending money on the heavy investments you're going to have in order to have a defense. I find very dry that countries like the United Kingdom and France are at least very willing to do so, but then there will be a lot of rhetoric, where you are not willing to pay the cost. I believe that for Norway, which is a country far north of the world, which is rich, but which is at the same time facing our northern regions, where dramatic changes are going to take place climatically – it is going to change the entire commercial landscape – it will arouse very little understanding among most of those with whom we are friends, and will be friends with, that we are not doing a strategic act. And that's the strategic grip that I perceive the government is inviting us to do. I feel that this is justified by the Government earlier. I feel that this is justified both in the general security policy and also in the entire Northern region of the Government, a thought that the case-rapporteur has just started. I remember his struggles to get a certain impact on this. He got it going. And it's clear that all of this is a whole. So I would like to quote from this speaker our foreign minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, as at NATO's parliamentary meeting in response to more articles, among others. A post from the Russian Federation, said that we knew very well in Norway that the planes that the Russians are now sending along the coast, are not primarily aimed at us. But as he dryly said, there is no bad basis in Norway to realize that we are going to have flights. And I want to add, we're not going to have planes alone. We're going to have them with our allies. You can think a lot of Nordic, but if you're going to have a NATO responsibility with Iceland, and the Icelandic people have realized everything they've signaled, then I think that the purchase that the Government has made is something we're going to need. I don't think there's anything going to be reduced, I think it's going to be increased. So with this as the starting point, the Left supports the main reasoning that is based on professional militarism. Finally, I would like to add: from my first day in Stortinget, in 1977, to my soon last day, I must admit that the defence budget has been a sort of lighter version of the Freemasonry Lodge. It has become an open access to the ‘matrix’ gradually, but I remember the first defence budget in 1977 as a sum of a number column. On the way there has become much more open. It was just supposed to be missing. It was a cold war in Norway. It was a little special to read in US congress documents things that were classified in Norway. But it was opened at once in the 1980s. I personally believe, after a long experience both as a great representative and a member of the government, that one should listen a little to the representative Petersen, because when he talks about this transparency, it is because in the end, in a country as peaceful and friendly as Norway, it is necessary for us to lift the burden in common that makes us bear defence investments. Norway is a very quiet country, but we are a defence-friendly country in that way that we take great promise, we tolerate great promise, but we have to be included. Then I realize that it has its challenges in relation to the military-industrial complex, or whatever it might be. But you have to solve that, because if you can't finally risk sitting with very fragile political constellations for what you're going to have. So I'd like to support what Petersen says. I'm not gonna go into details. I have been a member of the government for six and a half years, so I have held debates on defence budgets not only in the staging room, but also elsewhere. I have no desire to harm the defense, I have a desire to promote the defence case, but I think that all those who think, and think well, in the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, both politically and administratively, will take this seriously. Because that's right what's said, that at the moment you manage to raise an investment, and it has to be lifted extraordinarily, as the government says, it has to be a business, and then it'll be a little difficult if you don't know how that operation is going to be. We're told how it's going on in a number of other areas of society. We are not lost in security policy in this area. We're gone in how we deliver defense for the heads we have. So those who are happy in the defense, and who want the defense well, should take the case rapporteur's critical high opinion on greater transparency in the utmost seriousness. I'll say it that way in maybe one of the last heavy defense posts I have in this room. I choose to say it just like that. I have in this area through my life, in many phases, within 32 years of seagoing service, and I have experienced the defence both from the outside and in other contact, but the transparency dimension is important. The conclusion to the Left is clear: we regard it as strategically correct that we cannot allow the resolution on a fighter aircraft to be liquid. We perceive that it is necessary to place the conclusion where it should be, and we feel that the majority of the committee is doing so today with its attitude towards the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1607	On 19 December last year, the government presented the proposal for new fighter aircraft to the Defence. This was entirely according to the timetable that we had openly communicated for several years. The proposal proposes the launch of a negotiation process for the acquisition of F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. That is what we are discussing today. I would like to stress the importance of the election of a candidate now. There's actually no upside, or anything to profit from waiting with this decision. The selection should take place so that we can continue our participation in F-35 with renewed intensity. A devaluation now makes it possible to be an active and credible partner country. Norway is the first country outside the United States to actually choose F-35. At the same time, when it is several years until we finally undertake to buy the plane, Norway will be in a positive position to promote Norwegian-developed solutions. This is beneficial both for Norwegian industrial participation and for the specific operational needs of Norway for adaptations on the aircraft itself. A postponement of the elections would bring Norwegian industrial policy opportunities back a long way. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the Defence Committee is in favour of the launch of a negotiation process for the acquisition of new fighter aircraft of type F-35. In such a big case, and in a case that will go over so long, I also fully agree with the case rapporteur that it is of great importance that there is a broad majority behind this. That is why I am also pleased that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have signalled that they support the majority in the matter. I am also surprised to note that the Advance Party is opposed to the choice of F-35, and at the same time clearly states that you are concerned that the Defense is getting the most suitable fighter aircraft to perform the tasks. In addition, it is stated that military needs are essential for the choice of fighter aircraft. But that's exactly what's the main reason for the Government's choice of F-35. I also record that the party uses concrete texts from the central supporting documents of the Government in the fighting aircraft case as a “proof” for our mistakes. The government is asked to ‘present a much better, more thorough and more sound decision-making basis for the Storting, where the two options have been assessed against each other cost-effectively and militarily’. Once again, that's exactly what the government has done. I would like to stress that since this government took over the autumn of 2005, we have had a strong focus on establishing a genuine and credible competition between the candidates, with the aim of finding the best fighter aircraft for Norway. I therefore do not understand the many concerns of the Advance Party in the fighting aircraft case. Candidates have been treated equally throughout the process. The various milestones and decision-making times have been openly communicated, and the competitive cycle has been fully implemented in line with this. The Ministry of Defence has also been aware of the criteria underlying the choice of fighter aircraft, and these requirements have been communicated in detail to both candidates. It is probably the suppliers themselves who have to respond to whether they can meet these requirements. Until the decision to opt for F-35 was made, both of the remaining candidates expressed that they felt that competition was real and that the process was clean. In order to assess the contestants in a thorough, comparable, fair and verifiable manner, the Ministry of Defence sent out in January 2008 a request for binding information to the three respective authorities’ organisations. Both the Swedish and US authorities answered the request by the deadline of 28 April 2008, while the German authorities chose not to answer the request. This was their own choice. The request contained all detailed requirements and questions that are considered relevant in relation to satisfying Norwegian ambitions for a future fighter aircraft. Central was the need for information on candidates’ operational characteristics, the possibility of multinational cooperation throughout the life of the aeroplane, cost, lifetime costs and industrial opportunities. The request also contained specific descriptions of the various threats to combat refugees would be measured against. So it was perfectly clear to the candidates what ‘examination task’ they were going to do. It was also a basic premise for the process that the fighter aircraft should have an ability to operate autonomously in response to a potential enemy threat – or independently, as the case-responsible rapporteur said. In a defence model such as the Norwegian one, this is particularly important. We can't always draw on the combined breadth of alternative capabilities that a larger country's more differentiated defence could do. The more important it becomes that each platform has significant autonomy within all the main categories of air force. In addition, fighter aircraft must be able to participate as contributors, together with other resources, in the solution of different tasks. This emphasis on the autonomy of each platform is a key point in today’s network-based defence. It's amazing to me that the Progress Party in its comments chooses to attack this very central assumption. The scenarios used in the evaluation are the same as those underlying the Defence Study 07 and the Government's work on the long-term proposal for the Defence. The various analyses and assessments of the project are based on the respective responses of the operators. Where there were uncertainties in the answer, they sent clarifying questions to the providers. Before offering their answers, they also had the opportunity to ask questions about the fighter aircraft project. Both operators avail themselves of this opportunity, both in writing and through meeting activities. The Kampfly project then evaluated the responses of the operators along three main axes: achievement of objectives in relation to the technical and operational requirements – the so-called military professional assessment – costs and industrial opportunities. In the military field, three different types of assessments have been carried out: assessment of the individual requirements — and here it was about. thousands of requirements – operational efficiency analysis in data models and assessment of the operational impact of candidates on different missions. All three independent assessments in the military field show that F-35 is the only candidate who fully meets the Norwegian technical and operational requirements set for the future fighter aircraft. In addition, F-35 had lower acquisition and lifetime costs than the JAS Gripen. In the light of the comments of the Progress Party, I also find it necessary to mention that a number of meetings have been carried out with the Swedish authorities since the Government's decision was published on 20 November last year. Among other things, there have been meetings with the Swedish Defence Minister, the Swedish Defence Chief, the Air Force Chief and the Swedish Defence Materielverk. Through these meetings, the Swedish delegations got a deep insight into our analytical methods and results, up to a secret level. There have also been meetings with the Swedish supplier Saab. As indicated in the established large-scale state investment legislation, which has had the approval of different governments in the last ten years, external quality assurances have been subject to the entire process. Of course, it has been in agreement with the Ministry of Finance. I am very pleased that these people agree with the professional recommendations, and that they have concluded that the process has been carried out in a professional and ethically sound manner. So I feel completely secure about the professional work that has been the basis for the Government's decision before Christmas last year. The fight lighting process has been strictly regulated and formal – this is precisely in line with ‘best practice’ in the area of procurement. Just one comment on this with currency: it's not like we've based a dollar rate on a given date. The dollar rate used in the proposition is NOK Sixty-four. It's an average calculated dollar rate, an average calculated in advance, for the years we're going to acquire these planes. So it's not a random date when the offer was made. Then I would like to say a few words about the case proposal, because we have been criticised for the fact that the proposition is too thin. At least we have thought that we have reasoned and explained the election and asked for the negotiating authorisation further. It is important to clarify that this is not an economic negotiator. We'll get back to 2011. Much of the basic documentation was published, placed online, at the moment the proposition was sent to Stortinget. In addition, we have provided a lot of the basic documentation here. I think it is very positive that the committee has spent a lot of time getting involved in this large case complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1659	In the proposition, the government has weighted, among other things, the ability of fighter applicants to perform operations to obtain an effect on the strategic centre of gravity of the enemy, which shall be capable of being carried out autonomously by our fighter aeroplanes. Norwegian defence policy is based on alliances, and it remains to be seen in the long-term proposition that a military attack on Norway beyond minor situations should be resolved within the alliance. What enemy is it that the Council of State believes it is natural that Norway operates autonomously towards, with the aim of taking out its strategic centre of gravity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1666	First, I want to make it clear that all of the scenarios against which these flight candidates are measured are scenarios that are about protecting Norwegian territory, except one, which is about using aircraft in international operations. When we have set a requirement, and it is also stated in the staging proposition, that there should be an independent platform, it is that the aeroplane should be able to perform all tasks itself, without being given support capacity from, for example. UAVs or ground air protection. The aeroplane shall be able to take all duties, that is to say, under the term ‘autonomous’. It says on page 80 of the long-term proposal that there is a requirement for combat aircraft capacity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1673	This is a very large investment, and not least the operating consequences are very large. I am therefore pleased that the Government signals that the defence budget must be temporarily strengthened in the years when the most severe costs come. But then it is also said that operating costs must be imposed within the framework that is at all times. Formally, of course, that's the way it should be. But there is no doubt that we also have to look at whether the frame is good enough to be able to get the optimal use of the fighter planes. Because once our defense has become as small as it is, we have to be willing to train, practice and fly enough, so that we get the maximum out of the little resources we have. So my question to the government council is, will she stand behind a wish that we also verify the operating framework when we gain experience with this operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1682	In the long-term proposal, it was stated that within the investment framework, the future investment budget for the fighter aircraft was set at DKK 24 billion. But we've said that's not enough. We must come back to how the defence budget should be strengthened in this way. I see it as reasonable that the next time, or at least in 2011, when we are going to have a framework for contract negotiations with Stortinget, and in 2014, the operating costs are assessed in relation to the defence budget, but as the representative Petersen knows very well, we are negotiating the budgets year after year. However, it is quite clear that I absolutely share the opinion of several of the representatives; it is important to have a fighter aircraft – it is perhaps the most important capacity the defense has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1690	The left and the state council have a common opinion; we're going to have a fighter weapon. The representative Petersen asked questions about how to finance this – and keep funding in place – and I would like to follow it up. It is not by chance that I choose to follow up Petersen's comments on transparency. I think that we too inside our heads and in our way of acting towards society can't think as we did during the cold war. That's why I used the cold war as a backward example – it was a different time. But even then, we found more information in American sources than we found in contemporary Norwegians. With such a starting point – and I allow myself to draw experience from other areas of society in this country as well – I would like to hear the Council of State's reasoning on how this transparency can be built in such a way as to anchor defence and large, heavy defence investments in a good way, not only in the Storting, but also in opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1699	I fully agree with Mr Dørum – and with Mr Petersen – that transparency is very important. There's also something we're trying to strive for in Defense – to be more open. You have to be more open today, just because that, for example. is no longer one young man in each house who is inside and serving the duty of protection. That time is over. We need to have other arenas and a much greater openness to the population. We also see it in relation to our missions in Afghanistan. If we are to have a say in all that the Defense is doing – and that is necessary – we must have transparency. At the same time, for example: something in the fighter aircraft project that we can't have openness about, but we've really tried to have as much openness as we have had opportunities for. But I'm taking that signal very seriously and I'm going to keep trying to make the defense even more open to explain and have dialogue with people about what it's actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1706	I will not go further on the track with the lack of information in the proposition submitted to Stortinget. There is one thing that we now have to put behind us, and then we have to look forward to what we are facing in 2011 – and further on to the fact that we are going to use the planes. But there's a track here that I know SV has been very excited about, and as I see it has become a remark about: ‘These members indicate that the Swedish authorities had expected to be briefed [[...]] I wonder what the Minister's view of this very thing is. What kind of influence should it have on our purchase of fighter aircraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1718	Now we have made a choice of planes, and there is a great deal of connection – because I understand – in the Stortinget to it. But that doesn't mean we can't cooperate with Sweden on airspace control. For example, Norway is within a period of airspace monitoring over Iceland, so that cooperation in the Nordic region can be made independent of the aeroplane type. Of course, it's natural when you buy the F-35 that you also cooperate with the countries that will choose this plane – and we expect more countries to do that. With the good experience of F-16 — on upgrades and logistics — it has been important. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't be able to cooperate well in the Nordic region. We're cooperating more than we've done before, and we're obviously concerned that we're going to cooperate in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1723	In the program Focus May 5th this year, Bjørn Jacobsen from SV said that the defence committee had asked some questions when it visited Sweden, and among others. got a response from the JAS Gripen to why Eurofighter withdrew. That's because they didn't want to be part of – maybe – a fool's game. It was also found in the programme and elsewhere that, in terms of lifetime costs, the Norwegian authorities have calculated a figure that is DKK 78 billion higher than what the Swedish operators accept as acceptable on the basis of their calculations. On the question of how the world is going, Björn Jacobsen answers: No, you can't get an answer from me today, but we have to go into this. I assume that Bjørn Jacobsen has been given the overview that shows why the Norwegian Ministry of Defence estimates 78 billion kroner higher costs than the Swedish admits. And my question is, why in the world can't the Storting – and the public – get these calculations so that we can exercise our constitutional control of the government's information against the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1732	I will reject the fact that the competition that has been going on, that the process that the Ministry of Defence has been running in the case of fighter aircraft, has been a fool's game. In terms of lifetime costs, Norway has very good experience in operating a combat aircraft in our territories. We have a completely different geography than Sweden, even though we're a neighbouring country. Among other things, we have a sea area that is five to six times larger than our land area, so we have completely different areas to monitor, and we have a completely different intensity of flight than the Swedish might have. So once we've done calculations, we've done it based on our needs. There are basic costs here, there are personnel costs inside, there is logistics inside – and fuel inside, not least – over a very long period in the future. Then I just want to say that there were several things in this Focus program that were not right, among other things. the exchange rate, which I responded to in my main post. When Eurofighter chose to withdraw from the competition, it was their choice. There has been no trick game. We've treated both of the remaining candidates equally, and the lifetime costs are calculated equally for both of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1741	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1744	The decision will be taken today to start the negotiation process for the purchase of new fighter aircraft for the Norwegian defence. The process leading up to today's treatment has, in my opinion, been very thorough, both political and military, and we are on track. This must also be the case when such a large and significant investment is to be made for the country. We must then be sure that investment in retrospect can be defended both professionally and economically. I am very pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the way forward in relation to the negotiation and purchase of fighter aircraft. I would also like, as I said in a previous line today, to commend the chairman of the committee, who is also the case rapporteur, for a neat and good job in working on the matter in the committee. Kampfly is absolutely essential for the defense to be able to solve its tasks in the future. The fighting weapon is described as one of the most flexible capabilities of the defence, not least in terms of national sovereignty and crisis management. The strong military professional requirements set are reassuring and also adequately safeguard the human and environmental conditions. For the Workers' Party, it is important that all these conditions are best taken care of. The majority sees it as an overall objective that the value creation for industry in Norway related to the supply of fighter aircraft of type JSF and associated systems should be of the same order of magnitude as the purchase costs. Norwegian industry has proved many times that they are both technologically and economically competitive, and I am therefore in no doubt that in this context we too can achieve significant opportunities for value creation here to land. Previous contracts and repurchases are not made by charity, but because Norway has good competence and good products. I am not going to unnecessarily extend this debate, but I would just like to express my surprise that the Progress Party is also on the sidelines in this important matter when important decisions are taken. They do this despite the fact that they often promote some strong criticism and say that too little is done for our defense. Thus, despite a very thorough process, the Progress Party today is promoting an incomprehensible proposal that would have resulted in delaying this entire important defence process if it had been adopted. Large budgetary bids are something the Progress Party knows a lot about. But implementation is something else. But, as I said, I am pleased that the decisions taken today will be widely accepted in the Grand Duchy. I think most people today see how important it is with a government that has progressed in its work, and that gets things done and started. Let us therefore hope that this government will continue its important work even in the next growing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1767	When we got St. Prp. No 36 for 2008-2009 on new fighter aircraft to the Defense, it was probably part of us that was very surprised – not over the choice of aircraft or course ahead, but over the size of, i.e. number of pages of this proposition: 12 pages refer to the largest and perhaps the most important purchase in the history of Defence. Twelve sides aren't much when you have to get into the different factors to choose the right one. Of course, it can be said that this is only to give a clear signal to a negotiation process. But along the way, until the proposition was published, two other aircraft types were removed – even if one candidate chose it, on a voluntary basis. The Swedish finally joined, but lost the air battle. A lot of questions can be asked whether a process has taken place involving all the providers. That being said, I certainly believe that we have chosen the right aircraft type, i.e. fighter aeroplanes of type JSF. It must show the future, of course, but, as I said, there are many questions in the air. One can also wonder whether Norwegian industry will have repurchase agreements that are proportionate to what Swedish could give. The evening before St.prp. 36 was published, and a colleague and I were at a meeting at Hamar in the direction of, among others. NHO, where the Swedes presented their cooperation agreements/repurchase agreements. This was true of the counties Hedmark and Uppland. I must say I was impressed. They had done the same thing around the rest of Norway. Now, of course, you don't have to buy fighter aircraft for repurchase agreements, but there are quite a number of companies around Norway that are disappointed with the results and with the Government's promises of just repurchase and new, secure jobs. It must be clear that our current fighter aircraft and the fighter aircraft Norway will have in the future are for the purpose of ensuring Norway’s security, interests and values in line with the task of our soldiers – and material – in the other weapons. In order to do that job, the Defence Organisation must be able to solve the tasks that the Storting imposes on the Defence, i.e. the organisation must be dimensioned according to task and requirements, not vice versa. It is therefore important that there be consistency between the economy and tasks. If our aircraft is to be able to solve Norway's interests both nationally and internationally, we need to be involved in development. It benefits Norway, but also peace in the world. It may seem that more and more of Norway’s defence tasks are beyond Norway’s borders, which I am also somewhat sceptical about, as I am afraid that it may be at the expense of Norway’s interests, among others. in the northern regions. Finally, something about economics. As mentioned earlier in my intervention, this is a huge investment for Norway. In my opinion, the purchase price itself is reasonable – 18 billion kroner for 48 aircraft. But this is an estimated price without a anchor in a real offer from the US authorities and the calculation of life-cycle costs. It is therefore interesting to note that the external quality insurers have reached amounts of a completely different size. External quality insurers show in their documents that the acquisition of the JSF has an expected cost of approx. 50 billion kroner, with an uncertainty voltage of 40 billion kroner to 60 billion kroner. The party of progress finds this very interesting, looking up to the government's estimated cost of the JAS Grip, which is $24 billion. We in the Progress Party note that the Government and the external quality insurers have assessed the estimates submitted by the JSF regarding price and cost calculations to the point where they are solid enough to be premissive for a conclusion on the economic aspects of the acquisition and operation of the fighter aircraft. We are therefore surprised that the Government and the external quality assurance companies believe that state-guaranteed figures relating to the acquisition of the JAS Gripen can be considered as as uncertain as they are presented as in this case. We believe that the Government in this case should have provided an overview of the parameters underlying the calculations made in respect of operating costs and purchase costs. The party of progress naturally believes that the government should have put the two candidates up against each other schematically, and this resulted in the different differences and justifications for values.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1784	Let me first put in the order of those who are very surprised that a usually as defence-friendly party as the Advance Party then until those degrees stand on the sideline in a matter as important as this. If the impression of Bredvold here is abandoned, then both in this case and in how to define Norwegian interests in the future – what it would be natural for Norway to participate in, both domestically and abroad – I shall at least try to do my part to ensure that, when defence policy is to be developed in the future, other than the Progress Party gets its hands on it. It's the day of the big stuff in Stortinget. Earlier today, we are dealing with the management of the State pension fund — abroad, which is one of several important contributors — as well as among others. our fantastic workforce – so that in the future we can afford to acquire new, up-to-date aircraft. As the full debate has shown, fighter aircraft are a crucial component for the defence of national sovereignty through the control of Norwegian airspace, and not least to meet our security policy challenges internationally. For a representative of a large group of high-tech companies such as Delivering to defense all over the world, of course, it's a particularly happy day. But let me stress right away, even if the negotiations that are about to begin are most likely to have major ring-effects for, among other things. The environment at Kongsberg, that we – and I think I have the whole Workers' Party behind me when I say this – have always insisted that Norway should choose the best plane, professionally and at a price. When these assumptions are in place, it should just be lacking that we did not also exploit the industrial possibilities of such meganing. In this area, after the government change in 2005, what I want to call a gigantic change of pace has taken place. While the previous government did not put two sticks in the cross to establish industrial contacts for the Norwegian industry, among others. with the producer of JSF, the tone was quite different when the red-greens took over the government offices, with, among other things, the Minister of Defence at the head. By facilitating real competition between the various operators and making it clear that extensive industrial cooperation had to be put in place, the various operators understood that the Norwegian authorities were serious. We already have the preliminary result. I am confident that the further negotiations will show that this will have major ring-fences for the Norwegian industry, but I also have great expectations that the government in the forthcoming negotiations will be fully pressurised to make the industrial package as good as possible. In this way, we can acquire the world's most modern aircraft, while having a lot of industrial activity in our country. I would encourage everyone who believes that there is no difference between political parties and politicians in general, to take a trip to Kongsberg. Here we both see and believe that the differences are very large. I am proud to join in choosing a candidate for negotiation, primarily because we get an aircraft that is suitable for caring for Norwegian interests in a new time, but also because the acquisition is likely to provide Norwegian industry with adventurous opportunities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1797	I would first like to repeat a few words to the representative Micaelsen: there will be no industrial package when you contract with Lockheed Martin – US authorities and US law won't allow it. If we have the best products, they may be sold, and maybe we can balance it, but there won't be any industrial package like the Swedish had in their plans. The government has decided to select F-35. In consultations with the Committee, the Minister for Defence has designated the fighter aircraft case as a matter of suffrage. The government wants to enter into a negotiation process with Lockheed Martin, in line with the recommendation of the Air Force. So you have one type of aircraft to negotiate with and one company to negotiate with, and that's a bad negotiation process. The purchase of these aircraft is the largest single purchased nation Norway has ever made. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that there should be fair and open competition between all the providers. We have expressed that both to the government today and to the former government. The fact that Eurofighter drew his very good product from the competition showed that the process might not have been exactly the way it should have been. Even though Eurofighter volunteered, we were in the Progress Party. The government's process of acquiring new fighter aircraft has always been less transparent. The only thing you can say is that the date of when St.prp. No 36 would come, was complied with. A month earlier, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense had come with the news on TV and radio: the government had chosen the Lockheed Martin-produced fighter aircraft F-35 as its new fighter aircraft. This plane had completed all pre-determined tests from the Norwegian request, while the JAS Grip had completed only one in four. In addition, and we're surprised by that, F-35 was the cheapest option. The Progress Party considers that the evidence provided in this case does not provide an adequate basis for the choice made by the Government before the fighter flight selection was made public. The Progress Party is therefore concerned that the basis for the choice of new fighter aircraft must be clarified by the current defence policy adopted by the Stortinget. With regard to procurement and lifetime costs, it is very difficult to understand how the Government has come up with this. The cost of living for F-35 is based on assumptions from Lockheed Martin, and then this has been adjusted up to F-16, which is a completely different aircraft, which has other operating costs, and which will have other conversion costs. JAS Gripen has 120,000 hours in the air. Although I know that the Norwegian version of JAS Gripen NG is a completely different plane, it will still mean a lot, when you evaluate the cost of living, that you have experience in this. In the Progress Party we also ask questions as to whether the external quality assurance providers have sufficient competence to assess such a case as this. The Holte Group has at least initially been construction consultants. The party of progress has registered that the Government and external quality assurances are certain that the basis is sufficient to make a choice. The Progress Party believes that a broader defence policy debate is necessary in Stortinget if the defence's tasks and capabilities are to be changed in the context of the acquisition of combat aircraft, as the Progress Party believes otherwise. We see clear security policy implications in turning the defense's capabilities into a combat aircraft capacity that should be able to operate autonomously inwardly over strong air-monitored and protected hostile areas. This has been mentioned many times, but for us it is a very important matter. The Progress Party wants Norwegian defence and security policy to be anchored in an overall increase, with the emphasis on continued cooperation and good relations with our neighbours. On the existing basis, the Party of Progress does not find sufficient substance to evaluate the two operators against each other. The case needs to be elaborated more thoroughly, systematised in matrix format, so that all aspects of the offer can be assessed more easily. This review can only be complete in close cooperation with the two providers. St. pp. No 36 should not be taken into account now, but sent back to the Government for a more thorough decision-making basis, until it returns to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1831	If the government had initially said that for security reasons and for defence cooperation in NATO, they wanted to continue to buy American aircraft, I think very many of us had accepted it, from a large perspective. However, it was decided to have a tender procedure, which invited various fighter aircraft suppliers, of course with a long service life, to make offers. Then it is no longer a general security policy issue, but a completely ordinary procurement. It's in the context that we've evaluated this. We have always said that it must then be a proper, real offer – all cards must be open. We feel that the information given does not satisfy what Storting must have presented in order to draw a reasonable conclusion. I sent a letter on behalf of our group on 20 May to the Minister of Defence asking for it. «an overview of the calculations made and the results presented in relation to the conclusion and costs relating to the acquisition and operation of JAS/GRIPEN and JSF. In this context, we want a set of figures on the conclusions, in such a way that these are comparable between the government's calculations and the operators' calculations.» I received a reply on 4 June from the department. It's dated June 2nd, but I got it June 4th. It does not contain the table setups requested, both in the letter and in the previous one. I asked Gripen International to look at this. I have, after they got a couple of hours this morning, received 14 points where Gripen International believes that the Minister of Defence's presentation of the case contains errors and deficiencies. To put it this way, when it comes to prices, you compare 24 billion dollars with 18 billion dollars, while saying that one price, from Lockheed Martin, is a kind of "guestimate" – a kind of guess, a kind of forefaith – while the other is a fixed price, guaranteed by a state power. This in itself means that it is not comparable. And then when you're going to calculate the lifetime costs, you're going to start with the two numbers, and you're going to add the percentages. Then, of course, the fault that lies there is magnified by comparing the difference with the difference. As regards the cost picture of lifetime costs, the Council of State writes: ‘Assessing the lifetime costs of JAS Gripen NG shows a cost picture of the amount of SEK 20 to 30 billion greater than that of F to 35 in a 30-year lifetime perspective.’» [[identified at SEK 145 billion]] We have asked for a schematic overview of these lifetime costs. Why in the world can't the Ministry of Defense put it before the Storting, so that we can see that there's a team in it? When you say NOK 20 to 30 billion, you are quite liberal with the analyses, especially when it appears from the meeting of the Committee in Sweden that, in the Swedish opinion, it is set at DKK 78 billion too high. If the Swedes were only right in half of their claim, the JAS Grip would actually be cheaper than the F-35. That's the kind of thing we would like to control. So it's said that the JAS Grip doesn't meet the requirements. As far as I know, there have been four scenarios in computers, in computers – one in Linköping in Sweden, where JAS Gripen passed all the tests, and then some secret in Norway, which is uncontrollable. Because even when JAS Gripen has asked to know what information the Norwegian authorities have fed the computers with, they do not know. It is then impossible to check whether there are objective simulations carried out in Norway or whether information has been fed in to obtain the desired result, namely what has been achieved. I also asked in our letter whether the providers could be resolved from their taushet vows to us in Stortinget, possibly to us who are subject to professional secrecy, so that we could have access to some of the information that the providers, i.e. JAS Gripen International, have received, but that they cannot pass on to others. It was like the last check. That's where I get a clear rejection from the department. ‘If information is requested from the operators by the wholesalers of the Advance Party, these may, of course, be contacted directly.’ We have. ‘In our view, the tenderers can release all information they own, but they cannot release classified documents they have received from us as part of the competition.’ So the Storting is cut off from the ability to control the many claims that have come from the department, and that's why we've criticized a lack of decision-making on an objective basis, and I think it's sad that this process has gone so wrong with the rails in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1869	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1872	The last article explains with exemplary clarity why the Progress Party has ended up in this matter. It's about getting the best fighter plane for Norwegian defense. To that relationship we have a unique military professional assessment, and then the question is: why will the Progress Party nevertheless keep open to the JAS Gripen? Is it really the case that you would choose against the professional-military assessment? You'll obviously do that. Then I asked that question to the representative of Width. He came up with an explanation that Saab had been treated so badly, so you keep that possibility open. But as a result, I can clarify the question: Are you really willing to stay open to choose a fighter aircraft because you think the provider has been poorly treated? I mean, you might be on the side line. So there's one thing that needs to be important to Norway, and that's to get the fighter plane that best meets our defence needs – the sentence. In this respect, I think it must be said that it is reasonably clear which alternative it is. I do not think that the problem of control should be brought so far that we are now delaying this matter further. I would also like to point out, since the Advance Party does not take it into account, that there are two reasonings in their comments in the setting that do not hold. One is the price question, as Bredvold mentioned. Here he compares two numbers that are not relevant. The figure that he can compare to when it comes to external quality assurances is not 18 billion kroner, but it's 42 billion kroner. I have said this to the Progress Party several times, but the error is still in the setting. The second is the funny crusade against what is said that it has not been anywhere that the fighter planes should have an autonomous capacity. No, you do not use the word ‘autonomous’, but you use the word ‘autonomous’. It must be the same. I think this matter is ready for decision. It's up to Norway now to get the fighter plane that best meets our defence needs, and it's clear what it is. That is why we should vote in accordance with what the Committee on Defence recommends today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1885	First, I would like to say that the Defence Committee has received the information it has requested in this matter. When the Advance Party is so busy with repurchase as they are, and for which I also share the commitment, you should not send the matter back – at least not if you agree with the election. Just because we're early, giving us an opportunity, and even though this is a form of repurchase other than traditional repurchase, that it's development agreements, it gives Norwegian industry great opportunities, as has been said here. The reason I took the floor was once again to clarify this with prices – even though the case rapporteur was once again up and did so. This proposition, on page 8, says something about costs. It says $42 billion calculated for 56 JSF. It also says what's included in this 42 billion kroner. That is in relation to the offer, which was NOK 18 billion. It was for 48 planes. But in the 42 billion SEK, uncertainty analyses have been carried out, and they are externally quality assured. In addition, weapons and logistics support have been added. Weapons are a very large proportion of the cost to the plane, in fact, almost as much as the investment in the plane. So those systems add up. When you compare it to $50 billion, as the Progress Party has done in its comments, $50 billion is the $42 billion, plus the cost that includes having two fighter bases in the future. But that's where we haven't come yet. The question of which bases to choose, we will – as I have informed the Stortinget about earlier – be added by 2010. So I just want to say once again that both suppliers who were left in the last year have been treated exactly the same. Eurofighter chose not to respond. The Swedish authorities and the US authorities did that, and they've been treated quite equally. There have been run the same data models, there are thousands of criteria that have been presented for both, it has been exactly the same process, and that is also what is part of the external quality assurance system's control in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1894	To the last Council of State said that there were thousands of demands, so Gripen International says today that AGSE says that a thousand demands have been made, this is wrong – a thousand questions have been asked, without specifying the limit. So here you have two very different opinions, which is on a long, wide range of questions. Jan Petersen, and to the extent that the Council of State, constantly repeats that these are military professional judgements. But the military professional judgements are not verifiable. Throughout the process, JAS Gripen and the Swedes believed they had a current aircraft. After carrying out three secret computer or computer treatments of scenarios, the Norwegian government is only suddenly told on the day the elections are published and what it is going to negotiate on is that JAS Gripen does not meet the military professional requirements. Why in the world couldn't they be told about it much, much earlier? That's where the word "stupid game", which wasn't mine, was used. Why didn't they say from early in the process, if the JAS Grip doesn't meet the requirements? Why doesn't Gripen International know what the computer is fed with by information about its own plane, so that they can verify the correctness? That the professional soldiers want an American plane, has been obvious to all of us for many years. I have a lot of understanding of that, that's what you're used to. There is nothing new in itself – but it is not verifiable. Then you have ECON and Holte. They are external, but what qualifications do they have to implement this? That's also a little weird, we think. That these planes must operate independently – that is, be able to bomb targets in Russia, that is what you say without saying it – has it been a requirement? The Swedes believe that they are completely unknown. The same thing is true of the stealth property. When in the process was it established that the aeroplane should have stealth capacity? It's now in retrospect. If you had done it along the way, you would have automatically sold JAS Gripen out, because it has never been a matter of JAS Gripen being able to offer stealth capabilities for the plane. What's so amazing? Do we have any guarantee from Lockheed Martin that this with stealth properties will be as important and as technically safe in five to ten years as it is today? With our technological developments, you shouldn't have to doubt for a long time that you can figure out how to handle the stealth properties and discover the plane in other ways, so that it doesn't necessarily matter. It should also be interesting to find the value of the Swedish industrial event in the calculation, because there was the binding agreement. Norwegian industry will only be awarded contracts if they are competitive in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1903	It is quite obvious that Carl I. Hagen's ambitions on behalf of Stortinget are great, including that we should act as desk generals. I think it's very important that the Storting finds its role where expertise is respected, and that the Storting concentrates on what is the special assumptions of the Storting. Scenarios that develop will have components that I think we're all quite satisfied with are of a graduated nature. But it's obvious that it's not Carl I. Hagen so terribly concerned about. I think you're left with the main question. There is a lot to be said about formalities in relation to Sweden, and I have also criticised them. But the key question is, which plane is the best for Norwegian conditions? I have to say, I think it is more than brave when the Progress Party is very serious about the fact that the jam can be the fourth generation offer from Sweden that might prove more suitable for Norway than the American fifth generation offer. My comment about it is: You great world!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1910	I've asked for a comment. At the end of the debate, the term ‘sin on’ comes up here — as if it were a pity for some of those who have offered Norway flights. They've been paid well, 135 million. kr, so there's no sin on anyone in this context. Then, of course, it can be discussed whether they have been treated politely and well enough. I asked Saab directly when we met them: if that's what they say, why are they so much stupider than Eurofighter, who jumped off? They had one answer, and that was that Eurofighter had better intelligence than the Swedish. But from that to the conclusion that it's a shame on the arms industry, the military industry, I can't believe it. We know that what we're doing today is giving the government the opportunity to negotiate. If it turns out that the price is not working, the most important contribution we can make from this room is that it's going to cost US taxpayers, or for Lockheed Martin, not Norwegian taxpayers. It's going to be the most important thing we can send with the Government on the road when they're going to do their best to get the best possible price for the military's supposedly best plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1917	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1920	Since this is probably the last time I can cross the blade with Jan Petersen, I can't push myself to use that minute. I don't want the Storing to interfere in everything between heaven and earth. But if I take the analogy, that we're going to leave to the professional military all that's going on with the military, we can leave the financial management to the economists, the education policy to the teachers and the health policy to the doctors and the nurses. Then we can all reintroduce the scheme that was when the Storting started in 1814, namely that the Storting meets three months every three years. I don't have the ambition to go back to it and think it's our job to also control the hold in the so-called professional military conclusions, namely to ask a number of control questions: what are the characteristics of the plane? Why does it have to have those properties? Perhaps we disagree with some of those qualities and say that they are not necessary in our defence policy. So we want a good enough basis for decision-making. That is what we feel that we have not been given – a well-worked decision-making basis for the Storting to do its ordinary job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1929	For a long time and many years, we have heard that the Progress Party has had one plane that they have blessed over all other fighter planes, and it has been American. It's also almost been said that this plane is going to cost us what it's going to cost. Then it's strange that we've been debating for almost three hours now, and the Progress Party has argued that we're going to buy the JAS Grip. They have argued that it is the only thing that will give Norwegian industry any advantage whatsoever in this case. This proposition has actually been here for many months now, and the Progress Party has been offered to get more information than the piles we have received, also orally, and has been able to ask the questions they wanted to get answers to within the security restrictions we have, but in such a context that we could get information that was not public. They said no to that, there was no need for it. So Carl I. Hagen today comes with a letter where all the questions are unanswered – these are questions that the Progress Party has been offered to get information about for many months now. It's really interesting to notice that the Progress Party now sees as its biggest goal to get a fighter plane that's not the best for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1937	It is directly wrong what the representative Eye said. We have not said that we should go to buy the JAS Grip, but we have said that we should have a process. When the state is willing to pay out NOK 200 billion over a 20-30 year period, we need to be sure that the process has been so that we can turn around and say, "Yes, we've been on this." We're not today. The representative Jacobsen says we get the best price. No, we can't possibly get that. We do not negotiate with one company to buy a car or aircraft, we have to put many against each other. We had two options for 20 November. It's now reduced to one choice. We don't have a price. Who will reduce the price when they alone can supply the Norwegian Air Force with planes? The other plane, according to the government, is not usable. Obviously, we're all in the hands of Lockheed Martin when we negotiate prizes. We get a very bad price when we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1944	It is respectable that the Advance Party will fight for price and money. But it has to be equally respectable to sum up the whole thing. For me and the Left, the process we have had – the four candidates we had, the two who jumped off, and then Eurofighter, and the two who joined – I have to make the following assessment: When I want to help create a certain amount of security to acquire a fighter aircraft for the Norwegian defence in a security policy situation where I have no crystal ball to look into – most people do not – I will, without overdramatizing it, do the Foreign Minister Gahr Støre's words to me: When the Russians find it interesting to send their flights along our coast and around Iceland, most of us realize that it is not immediately dangerous to us. That's not what this is about. But we also realize that there is a political, psychological game going on. Who, then, is going to define the gambling space for Norway? As far as the scope for Norway is concerned in the political, psychological situation, where military power can also be used psychologically, which I believe the defence leadership has been putting forward in a solid and excellent way, we, as magnification representatives, must decide to cut through. That is one of the reasons why I am standing here today and voting in favour of the proposal that is before us. Norway is not going to be politically and psychologically on its heels in such a situation, and of course we are not going to be warriors or stupid. Nor should we be on the opposite side and be able to be perceived as naive and not reflected in that situation. Is that what I've learned as a politician, is that it's dangerous to create a kind of vacuum, a sort of vacuum around what you're operating in. By being firm, being predictable, making things quiet and calm, and wanting to be inspired by Finns in that way, you don't create vacuum. It is then known, to say the least, that Norway is a peaceful, small country towards the north, which is also in alliance with a friend who has a great bargain. You don't use the big cap, you don't threaten it, but you make sure, both in terms of defence policy and civil matters, that no vacuum is created. It's in the strategic image Left votes for the flight purchase that's taking place today. I needed to put some of these perspectives on the table. It's nice to drive the price hard, and I think the Americans deserve it. But as a country, we can't let a fighter plane for our aircraft float any further. That's why I choose everything, including the criticism that the representative Petersen raised – about the lack of transparency, the whole process, and his excellent committee comment – to make the choice that I now justify. It's a choice that I put on the table next to Carl I. Hagen's choice, and then they get the two choices lying there. I also feel that this is the choice that the rapporteur has made on the table for Stortinget today. The options are located there, and the Left makes its choice - it is following the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1955	Very briefly, first of all about the price: it's clear that if the government had written more about the economy, I don't think we would have had much of this debate. But the committee was in the United States, and we got to dig down in how the price comes out. It is not that Norway will be confronted with a negotiating situation that not all the other partners will also be confronted with. All those who purchase aeroplanes with the same configuration in the same year shall have the same price. There's no secret of how this comes out, so don't let's do any more of this right now. But as I said, if the government had explained this properly at first, we would have avoided some debates. Here is the information: I agree with the Progress Party that there is basically a lot of information that is not there, but that should have been there. But now the committee has had this matter for six months. We have had every opportunity to read the documents we have received. We have had every opportunity to ask the questions we wanted to ask. I have also offered to postpone the handling of this matter to later if you needed even more hearings, so the opportunity to get it on the table has been there. As the rapporteur, I have to say that I react when Carl I. Hagen comes up and says that they have had a process on the side of the committee and have asked questions to the department that I, as rapporteur of the case, have never heard of – neither the questions nor the answers. It's fundamentally unyielding! The Progress Party shall have three members of the Committee. They have had half a year's work on themselves to dig themselves into this and have not been willing to do so. That is the reality! Then we must not be delayed. Then the Progress Party must admit that they have not used the opportunity they have had to dig into the fabric. This is too serious to come sailing into the sideline over the last few weeks and then get the matter off the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1964	I think it is directly disappointing and directly frowned upon by the representative Eye to say that the Progress Party wants to buy the Swedish plane over the US. We in the Progress Party want a real and fair process, with the opportunity to compare when it first became a bidding round. Had the representative heard Eye after, she had heard that I said the following in my post: ‘When said, I certainly believe that we are going to select the right type of aeroplane, that is fighter aircraft of type JSF. There are many questions in the air.’ [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1974	The President would point out that the word 'freak' is not a parliamentary term. Bear Jacobsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1979	The best price – no. But that's the process we're starting at now: trying to figure out what's the real price. This is why things will come back to Stortinget. But no one has to doubt that the price is related to the rest of the program's fate. That's the system we're buying from. I.e. the seller makes the buyer responsible for setting up any industrial contracts – and without repurchase. That's the system we're buying from. That's how the American arms industry works. This is not how the European arms industry works. Then we'll see at the end of the next ten years, now that the EU has fallen from 130 pst. repurchase to 100 pst. repurchasing, if this is likely to improve, and then, of course, in view of the fact that there is no irresponsible overinvestment in defence equipment. But today we're starting to negotiate a price, which we'll know more about in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1986	When Jan Petersen says that we have been offered further consultation and additional information, that is correct. Yes, we were offered a closed hearing a short time ago. It was not at all interested in the Progress Party. We want open hearings, so the public gets to know what we're really doing in this house. It must be the law of the Progress Party to mean what we mean. The size has a control function and an obligation to verify the accuracy of the information received. When we dig further into this – I don't know where the representative Jan Petersen has dug, but at least we've dug – we've found out that the information we've received from the department is not correct. We have contacted the Swedish suppliers, among others, and received completely different information, as Carl I. Hagen has explained here today. He does not get any answers to questions from the department either. We get answers to questions from the suppliers, and that cannot be satisfactory. I have to say, here's someone who's been tricked. There's no doubt about it. The Swedish Minister of Defence – I repeat it again – says that he understands why we chose the American plane, because what the Swedish aircraft could offer could never have satisfied the Norwegian requirements. They never did. Why don't they have it all over the world? There's one of the things that's the whole thing here. Why has the Swedish supplier not been given exactly what they should deliver? If someone is going to feel badly treated here, it must be the Swedish suppliers. I believe that this actually has something to do with Norwegian folk – being honest with the operators we have on the market. It is true, as the representative Skumsvoll also says, that this is now the seller's market. It seems that the department has no idea how to behave in a buying and selling situation. They can be good at a lot of other things, but in terms of trade and vice, they obviously don't – excuse me, President – have a bearing at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e1995	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2012	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2019	The cultural activities of Defence are an important part of the culture of society in general. In-house culture plays an important role, and this communication seeks to make defence needs and special traditions visible. I believe that the message does well, which the entire committee agrees to. To this end, the Committee has few comments in addition to its being associated with the notification. The main elements of the message – and which the message takes into account and deepens – are the fastening works, the museums, the music and the landmarks of war. Furthermore, it is argued that the defence sector itself organises and manages cultural activities and that the Ministry of Defence is responsible. In order to maintain the culture of Defence, it is necessary to have a long-term time horizon. Therefore, this message ranges from the current day to approx. 2020. But it's not enough with just beautiful words and phrases. A clear pre-condition for the notification to become a reality is that it is followed up in the annual budgets. In order to make this more serious, the Committee notes that the facts of the notification are expected to be «follow-up» in the annual budgets and not merely that they will be followed up. The economy in this must be a clear assumption. If not, this – as I say initially – is just words and phrases. There is no disagreement about this. The recently adopted long-term plan refers, inter alia, to: that the music of the Defence has had a central function as a tradition bearer and history manager, and that the national fortifications have a meaning as national cultural memories. In addition to the fact that this has also been attempted to be visible through this message, one also – in a good way, I would say – tries to do the same with the museum and the war memorials. Today we have 14 national fortifications – from Vardøhus in the north to Fredriksten in the south. They all have different stories and characters, and they represent a part of the history of Defence for more than 800 years. Three of the attachments – Akershus, Bergenhus and Karljohansverm – are still in active military use. With the exception of these, the defense has stepped down the activity of the attachments and has made them more accessible to the public. In other words, they have gone from fighting facilities to cultural memories. It's Defence Buildings that manage the fortifications, and it's a pleasure that the commandship has been reintroduced on part of the fortifications. The commander is the Defence Chief Representative at the fastenings and has, among other things, as a task to keep the arenas in military claim, to profile well the defence of civil society and to make the fortresses an important meeting place for defence and civil society. Today, the museum activities of the defence are comprised of seven museums – which together constitute the organisation Defence Museums – and manage approximately. 100000 items that are all important to take care of, in order to make a part of the history of Defence visible, not least for posterity. The Committee points out that financial support has been given to the Museums of Defence to assess the scope of any own exhibition on Norway’s contribution to international operations. The Committee is proud of the efforts many women and men have made for Norway beyond our borders, and it seems natural to recognise this through such a museum. The Committee considers this to be important in order to establish a broader knowledge of this work on the part of the population. The Committee therefore expects the Government to find a solution to ensure that such an exhibition is further explored. The Committee is also concerned with the use of means to develop a potential study for the future operation of Building 22 at Akershu’s general purpose fastening. The building today houses extensive voluntary activities, which are involved in the work before and with the Defence veterans. In addition, the Committee shall require that appropriate premises be made available for any relocation. The defense music today consists of five musical orchestras. We're going to hope that the reduction in the number of venues has now come to an end. As a result of the reduction in defence, the reduction in the number of corps has also been noticeable. The music of the defense is a visible representative of the diversity of the defence and is a unique source of recruitment to the Defence. The Committee supports the need to further develop the universality and professionalism that characterise the Defence Music. That is why the Committee is in favour of maintaining the five music stations that we have left. Our landmarks make visible and sum up an important part of our defence history and of Norway's historical development. They remind us of courage and resistance, and they symbolize fundamental values in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2042	For the first time in history, the cultural activities of the Defence are grouped in their entirety between two permes. In this Communication, the Government proposes measures to strengthen the national fortifications, defence museums and defence music. That means that the activity and opportunities of these institutions will increase in the years to come, to the delight of most people. These areas are central arenas within the Defence and the most visible cultural institutions outside the community. The government will also complete the monitoring and recording of the defence-related memorials and ensure that these are made more accessible to the public. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that the defence culture should become more visible within both the Defence and the Greater Society. I think few are aware of the extent to which the cultural activity of the Defense actually is, what it offers, and not least what it means to all of us. The majority government has strengthened the cultural activities of Defence in a number of areas. The funds for Defence's music have been strengthened by 20 pst. during this major period, and significant funds have been allocated for the exceptional maintenance of the national fastening plants in the last two years and in the Government’s employment action package. Now we are taking this positive development a step further, as the Government is adding to more measures that will further strengthen the culture of Defence in the future. The fortifications are some of our finest historical constructions. They tell us about 800 years of history. They are fine recreational areas and unique frameworks for a wide range of cultural events, artists and local entrepreneurs. There is today a major need for repair and rehabilitation of the fastenings, after many years of inadequate maintenance. I am therefore both pleased and proud that the Government is now proposing that critical measures be implemented as soon as possible and that the fastening works should have a satisfactory maintenance standard by 2020. I think most of us are happy in music, and I think that's why the music of Defense matters far beyond the realms of Defence. It's not least important to the versatile music life around our country. The Corps organise and participate annually in a large number of concerts in the country and abroad. The right is concerned that the culture of Defense is at the expense of the pointed end. With over 33 billion dollars for the defense, there must also be room to spend a few dollars on culture. This is of course also included in the long-term plan, and thus does not affect anything else. In the end, I'm glad that the culture of Defense is finally being raised to a level that it deserves, and that together we make sure that this part of our common cultural heritage is passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2063	I will not add so much to either what the rapporteur said, or what the shadow rapporteur of the Workers' Party said. There is, of course, a broad consensus on the comments of the communication. I just want to stress that, of course, there are ambitions to do more than you can do in practice. However, a message has neither money nor priorities, and when the situation is as it is when it comes to the operation of the defence, it must be kept very carefully by the means that are available. This means that a more liberal operating budget and a larger defence budget would give opportunities to do more than what is now being put in. I'm not going to conceal that I've taken special note of the rather reserved comment and the reserved position the government has put in regarding the idea of a museum of peacekeeping activities related to the flight collection at Gardermoen. Given the tight budgetary situation of defence, I can fully understand why the Government has formulated itself as it has done, but I would point out that it is a result of the size of the defence budget. Obviously, it's not easy to go in and use – let's say 50 million. kr at a museum, when we can't afford to keep anything as simple and reasonable as the Olav protection in operation. But I think this is one of many areas that would have enjoyed whether we had the ability to prioritise the defence budgets higher than what we have the ability to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2072	Some reflections: In fact, it is up to us today to look at a commitment to culture, cultural memories, construction works and measures around Defence as an investment in psychology in maintaining a defence capability and a preparedness, because we are no longer at a time when we have a broad, used general duty of protection. We still have it, and I'm going to fight for it, but we're in a different situation. Then this is -- let's call it -- part of the historical and cultural awareness that we belong to something, that there are some lines in our social development and that there are some lines forward. That's why I think this kind of also has a reason to think of it as a cultural bag, to say it that way. I just wanted to underline it. Then I have two other short reflections. One goes on the fact that we've had approx. 120,000 out in international service, very many of them in the German Brigade — and many others. This solution to doing something about the Gardermoen flight collection, which the representative Petersen was in, must not be done by sparing up an investment. You can get somebody to build it, and then you have to capitalize rent. There wouldn't be many police buildings in this country if they had been capitalised on the state budget. KLP Property and others have been quite competent, so you can pay rent. Now I'm aware that's how it works now. The Ministry of Finance often requires any project to be checked, but there are solutions other than having a regular investment to solve something – a kind of effort and splinter that allows you to achieve something. The last point that I want to raise, I'm not sure where belongs at home, but I need to say it: what is the memory of war? I understand that there is a war memory when the Garden is in the Midst Forest and elsewhere, but how will we define graves after those that were taken by days, executed or fallen during the war? Where do we have that? Throughout my life as a giant representative, I have felt that it is not really located anywhere. I have at least observed how other countries have a weight and a seriousness over this. It's just looking at e.g. how Germany has preserved graves in Norway after the war. I've met people who have been in contact with this. I think it once put a man – I think it was even in Hedmark – and registered the rubble and bits in connection with the fact that we had the 100th anniversary in 2005. I am a little curious about where it was of this great registration work – registration of most of it. Someone has done a job – someone can take care of it. There is something in it as well, and there is something both in remembering and honoring those who gave their lives in different ways – some were taken in flight, others fell into battle, etc. But at least I want to leave this reflection behind for further work on this side of the defence business. I don't think this is going to be some kind of phenomenon that ends up in the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Culture or the Graveferdsetaten. There has to be someone who has an overall view of this and understands it. Let me say something that arouses my respect. I was with some distant relatives – who suddenly found me – at a churchyard in Skien, and there we lighted after a relative. Suddenly we come to two British war graves, the tombs of the two pilots who were shot down across Grenland on March 30, 1945. You see it, and you think about how old they were, or how old they weren't, to say it like that. But you see that there's someone shooting the graves, you see that it's a system. That's basically what I mean by this post. I don't confess to anyone, but we're approaching a time when the last witnesses of time are soon no longer with us. Then someone else is going to carry the legacy on in a way. Some of them really wanted me to have an interpellation on this topic – but the forces didn't go – so I promised one of them by a solemn promise to raise this on the Great Council. I owe him – who sat both in Falstad and in Sachsenhausen because he did a job for Norway, and survived – at least to say what I am now doing from this pulpit. The same is true of many others who I have met on my way through life. Many of them have unfortunately gone away, but some of them are still alive. They're ready in their heads, they're calm, mindful people, and they've given me something to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2085	The President proposes that this morning's meeting be closed and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 17 – it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2117	Defence is very often about high-tech, sharp jobs and core activities, but it is also about something more. It is about managing a part of the nation’s cultural heritage and helping to defend and support fundamental social values. That is why, for the first time, there is a big message that provides a broad overview of the cultural activities in the Defence – ‘Culture to Defend’. That is why I am also pleased that the Committee is behind the main lines of the communication. The government's vision is to raise and further develop the defence role as a cultural carrier, cultural manager and cultural intermediary. I am concerned that the cultural activities of the Defence have a great potential. It offers unique cultural experiences for the population and contributes positively to civil society. Culture also has an important role to play internally in defence. Culture helps to create cohesion and belonging, which may be crucial to solving the demanding tasks of defence. Cultural activities are also a way of making visible what modern defence stands for. In the current period of growth, this activity has already been strengthened in a number of areas: the funding for defence music has increased by 20 pst. In the last two years’ budgets, the appropriations for exceptional maintenance of national fastening plants have also increased significantly and were further strengthened in the employment package earlier this year. The Communication sets out measures to further strengthen cultural activities in the years to come. Activities and opportunities will increase, thus making defence culture more visible within both defence and society. The comments in the vote show that the Committee sees the value of this, both for society and for the Defence itself. As pointed out by the Committee, and which has also been the subject of the debate here, the Government is committed to making the important work done by Norwegian men and women visible. The defence museums have therefore been asked to continue working on the idea of an exhibition on peacekeeping operations, preferably in cooperation with other actors. With all the museums that the Defense has today in operation, and the areas that the Defense has, we believe that building new museums is not necessary, but working on the content and dissemination is important. It is also good that the Committee has noted the possibility study for the future operation of building 22 at Akershus fastening and any consequences for the volunteer organisations that have premises there today. Building 22 is located on the edge of the attachment area, near the Homefront Museum, overlooking the Aker Brygge. The study deals with the possibilities of using this building for general purposes. The Ministry has been in good dialogue with the organisations and has identified their needs for premises. In the context of the complete plan for Akershus attachment area, the organisations will be maintained in the Defence Buildings, on or in connection with Akershus attachment. With regard to the Right’s remark that the economic consequences are little concrete and that the defence’s operating budgets are under pressure, it is clear that the many important objectives of the Defence must still be given priority against each other. The government believes that cultural activities are about caring for our cultural heritage on behalf of the nation, a responsibility we have to take seriously. We will come back to more detailed resource statements in the annual defence budgets. The fact that a total accumulation is behind a commitment to culture in the Defense gives inspiration to all of us who are concerned about this. I look forward to showing more of the cultural activities of the Defence in the future! So just a comment on what was taken up by the representative Dørum about war memorials. I fully share Dørum's view that it is important that we take care of these monuments. They're telling a very important part of our pretty close story. All over the country, these kind of monuments have been erected. Therefore, the Defense will continue to focus on the protection and maintenance of these war memories, those falling within our responsibility, and then we will continue the mapping of memorials and make the information available to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2140	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2143	Just a short line. The question is whether there is anything in the cultural scope of defence that the Council of State seems to be in another department – and vice versa – or is the Minister of Defence satisfied with what is? Is it so that it should be there, so that we have what we're going to have, and then we take care of it, and then the other culture gets where it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2150	There's always an assessment of what could be under another department. I think you should be aware that the defence has a very special role in our society and in our history. It's an old institution, it has very long traditions and has really stood up through history for a lot of cultural activities in society in general. At some point it was almost so that everything took place, including cultural activities, under the auspices of the Defence. It is not certain that it should necessarily be so in the future. That is certainly not the case today. It is equally true that the cultural activities we have are so closely related to the profession that the Defence of the Daily stands for, that at least it is my opinion that it is right to have it in the future. Just by presenting this message, I believe that we also make the importance of it visible, and how great it is in relation to the importance it has in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2157	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2162	Norway's war history is both long and bloody, and it can certainly be discussed how we should manage it. I believe that it is of the utmost importance that this is taken care of for our descendants. However, with the reduced activity of the defence in many places in Norway, it has become increasingly difficult to take care of, for example: war memorials and fortifications. Earlier when the defense was around many places, had e.g. the individual clay responsibility for maintenance and markings. Then it was easy for those who wanted it, to get involved in history, and for example. be present in different memory events and markings that were. The same can be said of our fastenings. On many of these, there was a lot of military activity, like that. at Kongsvinger fortification in Hedmark. Here, the Home Guard District also kept a number of soldiers and officers in charge. So the Home Guard and the rest of the Defense disappeared. Now there's only one commander left. There's still activity there, but it's made up of weddings, civil parties and different cultural events, etc., so that the fortification and its area are still in use, but the military is gone. It is very good that the fastening is used, but I am afraid that the military history will gradually be reduced to a minimum. When I last called Kongsvinger fortification, Vinger answered Hotel & Spa! Yes, times are changing. That's why I'm glad to St.meld. No 33 for 2008-2009, ‘Culture to defend’ About the cultural activities in the Defence towards 2020, is re-examined among others. These two things. It is important to have a defence that can safeguard Norway’s interests in the future, but it is also important to have an understanding of why. We will receive this, among other things. by caring for our war history.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2171	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2188	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2199	Today we're going to deal with two things about veterans. A veteran is one who sets up when the world community asks for it. A veteran is willing to risk life and health for others to live in peace and freedom. A veteran is one who deserves all the honor and recognition we can give. A veteran is one we all have to be proud of. That's why we're also going to take care of our veterans. We as a nation must and must set up for the veterans when they need it, just as they have set up for us. Today is therefore an important day both for the veterans and for us when we are to adopt St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009, «From Protective to Veterinary» On the supervision of personnel before, during and after participation in foreign operations, and when to adopt Ot.prp later this evening. No 67 for 2008-2009, on strengthening the rights of veterans following international operations. I want to get into both cases now. Today’s decisions will strengthen the oversight of the personnel we send out in foreign operations and help them to get well-deserved recognition for their efforts. Participation in foreign operations is an important element of Norwegian security and defence policy and is at present a central part of the defence activities. When we send out women and men on risky missions in war-torn and conflict-torn areas, it is the great responsibility of the Storting and society to take care of them both before, during and after the mission. About 120,000 women and men have been involved in foreign operations on behalf of Norway since World War II. These personnel have made a great effort to create peace and stability out there and security at home. A prerequisite for maintaining personnel is that the operations in which we participate have a solid grounding in international law and are perceived as legitimate. The government will therefore continue to be a driver internationally in order to create robust mandates and clear rules for the use of power. The vast majority of soldiers feel that they come home with enhanced competence and positive experience after completing a meaningful service. At the same time, we know that participation in the operations poses a risk that some people may suffer both physical and mental damage. In order to better prevent and take care of those who are injured, we rely on more knowledge, especially on psychological damage. I am therefore pleased that the Government will prioritise research in this area, with emphasis on scale and causality, and on how such damage can best be prevented and followed up. Recruitment of personnel involved in foreign operations is a responsibility affecting several sectors of society. Because the veterans have different needs, the defence must work closely with, among other things. the Civil Health Service and the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare. It is particularly important that competences are transferred from defence to the other social sectors. We therefore need to focus more on training and more on interaction. It is also important to follow up the families of those who are out. Veterinary and personnel organisations play a very important role in improving staff and veterans’ care. I would argue that it is therefore essential to succeed in continuing the good cooperation with the veteran and employee organisations on the further development in this area. In this case, the Council of State deserves commendation. Ever since she joined, she has been working to implement measures to give our veterans increased recognition, strengthened rights and a good and worthy offer. More resources are provided in the field of science, through several annual works, increased appropriations and new family offerings, and so-called low-threshold schemes such as meeting places and peer support schemes for veterans are established. With Ot.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009, we will make it easier for veterans to get compensation for damage they have suffered in international operations. The veterans get a good compensation system. The state includes this is clearly responsible for the women and men who are going into international operations in the future, but at the same time we are clearing up the old cases. In order to strengthen the rights of veterans, an objective liability for personal injury is legalised, limited up to 65 G. The State shall, independently of guilt, make good any loss suffered by military and civil personnel in the Defence for damage or disease caused by service, including mental damage. At the same time, we've been very concerned about solving the veterinary issues that are far back in time. Some things are over 30 years old. These are mainly due to psychological damage. For those who have suffered psychological damage in the period from 1978 until the law enters into force, we will introduce a separate compensation scheme. The specific compensation scheme is limited up to 35 G, which is 2.45 million. kr. It is not common in Norwegian law to give retroactive effect to new laws. But we in the Labour Party believe that for us it is absolutely necessary that we now also resolve the old issues. There is also a right to psychiatric and psychological follow-up from the Defence for staff who serve and who have served, in international operations, for one year after the end of service. It is an important social task to take care of those who have given years of their lives for the service of peace. When society asks Norwegian women and men to risk life and health for peace and freedom — often far away from Norway — yes, society must also stand up when they come home. The government has put the veto case on the agenda, and I mean with my hand on the heart that we have got a lot already. We've now got our own veteran center at Bæria by Kongswinger. Here the veterans should be able to come and meet other veterans. We have also launched a number of other actions in close cooperation with the veterinary organisations. The defence has established its own veterinary administration and the head of defence is in the process of creating a separate directive which will underline the responsibility of the defence for the care of the veterans. We have contributed to the development of our own military outpatient clinic, which, in addition to offering its own treatment, also helps veterans up against the public health system. While taking care of those who are struggling, we must remember that the vast majority of the over 100,000 veterans we have in Norway have come home with positive experiences. Our soldiers deserve our consideration and respect. We need to focus on the important job they do. I am proud of our women and men who risk their lives and their health when Norwegian society asks them to do so. Then it's only fair and fair that the Norwegian society stands up for the veterans when they ask for it. The legislative proposals that the Government has now promoted show that the state takes a clear responsibility for its veterans. To St. Report. 34 is a unanimous attitude. In the Ot.prp committee setting. No 67 there are some minority proposals, which I'm assuming the parties that are behind them will prepare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2238	St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009, ‘From subject to protection to veteran’, which is now being treated, must be seen in the context of Ot.prp. No 67 to be treated in Odelstinget later today. Participation in foreign operations is an important and integral part of Norwegian security and defence policy. After the conversion of the defence from a mobilization defence to an input-based defence, foreign operations have become a natural part of the defence activities. It is the responsibility of society and defence as a whole to provide the personnel before, during and after their service in foreign operations. The goal of St. Meld. No 34 is to describe how defence and society can best take care of personnel through disease prevention, damage and enhanced follow-up and post-service recognition. For the purposes of this Communication, personnel shall be understood as having participated in military operations on behalf of the Norwegian State. Here is the mention of the German Brigade and operations either under UN leadership or with a UN mandate. By decision of 19 June 2008, the Government has asked the Government to promote its own case on the needs, consequences and solutions that may be associated with military foreign services. The message being addressed is important, but even more important is the development of an action plan linked to intermediate targets, which has the budgetary resources needed for implementation. The government states that cost-related conditions are followed up in the annual budgets. All departments, departments and Veteran and labour organisations must be involved in this work. The Committee is fully in agreement with the assessment that St.meldt. No 34 for 2008-2009 is a good basis for further building the framework for the veterinary work. The Committee also shares the Government's view that the defence should be an attractive and secure job, which ensures that employees and their ability to have the most normal family life possible. The operations in which Norwegian personnel are involved must, in the opinion of the Committee, have a clear UN mandate or a recognised international legal basis. It is important that society and defence build up with the recognition and visibility of the service. This can be done by creating good meeting places and establishing social networks. Our personnel who have participated and participate in international operations are subject to very demanding tasks. They're trained to take life if necessary, and they're all aware that in the ultimate consequence, someone can be killed. Mental stress is high, and it is therefore very important that those sent out are robust. Furthermore, the personnel must be well trained and get the best equipment that can be provided. When the personnel are operational, it is important that there is sufficient sanitation in relation to the personnel deployed. Norway has now had several helicopters stationed in Afghanistan for a period of time. It is important for staff on mission to know that there would be a damage where the need for immediate assistance is present, the helicopters could probably be there in a short time. After hearings and in conversations with the Veteran organisations, complaints about the reception of the veterans are often met by the Defense when they put their legs on Norwegian soil. Those who are not going back to military life after returning home, according to the organisations, only get contact with the Defense in the form of a 24-hour debriefing. It may seem like a short time, but it may also affect the individual's self-esteem. The Committee points to the need to further develop the arrangements for the defence during the return phase. The Committee also points out that some veterans experience a lack of recognition by society for the efforts they have made in foreign operations. There is something that the Defence and Society must pay great attention to. The veterans from international operations must also have an adequate medical and economic foundation for their service to Norway abroad. This side of the problems, which the veterans have experienced until now after the end of service out, I will take up in greater width when Ot.prp. No 67, If the strengthening of the rights of veterans following international operations is discussed in the Odelsting meeting later today. There, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make proposals for legislative changes that will give the veterans greater and safer rights. Finally, I would like to commend the Government that they have now prepared St.meld. No 34, about veterans. However, I cannot avoid mentioning that it is now and in the future that the real work and actions in order to secure the condition of the veterans must be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2266	That is not how much I would like to add to the statement made by the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee. There is unanimity in the Committee on the most important issues. The encephalomyeloids occurring in the context of the odelstungsproposition. Whenever I wanted to take the floor, it was partly because I too would like to join in the words of recognising the efforts of the veterans. There is no doubt, as both speakers have said before me, that this is an important part of Norwegian security and foreign policy. There is also no doubt that those who leave – for someone’s sake – must bear a rather heavy burden. It is therefore important to stress that the task that has been carried out is something for which Norwegian society is very grateful. I think it's important that we set up our work for the veterans in such a way that this recognition gets an expression. Now, the communication presented is of a more general nature, so general that someone in the hearing in the committee probably wanted the matter to be postponed or referred back. However, I believe that the message has been given the right form, and I think it is important that the details are drawn up in the form of an action plan, as is also stated. That's why I think it's important that this message is being addressed today, and that the work, which is probably going to be done in close cooperation with the veterans' organisations, gets as much pressure as it can put on it. I have so far just a little detail I want to add to the now affected setting, and that's the fact that the vet issue is something we now obviously encounter in a lot of NATO countries. Everyone has some parallel problems to deal with. Therefore, I think it would have been nice if it had been possible to achieve an international cooperation where one sat down and exchanged experiences, and perhaps also came up with a joint handling. Among some of the scientific organisations, there is a great deal of interest in this, and I think it is important to try to bring together as much common policy as possible. Since I'm not a member of the Odelstinget, let me just mention two things about what's more controversial about the odelstingsproposition. The cases are closely linked. One is, how long is the responsibility of the defence to be held? Here we get a discussion about whether it should be for one year or five years. In any case, the one-year period is a good step forward, because it gives a responsibility and clarity for quite a long time after returning. I believe that the Government's proposal in one year is the right one, given that it is practiced with the necessary softness. That the obligation does not last more than one year, I think it is right to determine. However, if someone needs guidance and help after that time, I'm sure the defense will provide this, but the further follow-up will be done on the civil side, it will be in health care or where the need may be. I think we'll try a little bit, in the sense that after a few years it may be necessary to draw experiences from this. Should it then prove that we have made the wrong choice, it is probably possible to do it again. As far as the compensation system is concerned, I am pleased that we now have a system that takes care of not only those who are being damaged in the future, but also many of the issues that lie there. It's clear that here we have a need to sign out. I have noticed that the Government has changed its position from the consultation round to the final legislative proposal, and there are probably many good reasons for that. But I have to say that after having looked carefully at it, I have come to the conclusion that having one order will be the right thing, and I would recommend the Right Members to vote in accordance with it. It is also proposed on my behalf when you get to Odelstinget, and it expresses a desire to have the same arrangement for everyone, as it was originally intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2283	I think that in this case the Council of State needs to boast, because this is neither more nor less than a historical statement of things that should have been done better politically before. But here's a thorough message, and the name of the message says everything, because it goes on 'before, during and after participation'. For the first time, this one looks orderly in good health. It's a historical statement, which, at the same time, I thought, is pointing forward. It goes on as simple things as recruiting – we need to do better – we need to have sensible assignments and, perhaps most importantly, we need to take care of those who have come home in a good way, if they have not had the least psychological damage. We know that many think it's hurt if the defense doesn't see them, they're looking for some kind of recognition that maybe the big community or community isn't able to give. Then the defense must be as flexible as possible. Even if responsibility goes beyond a year, it should be even better in relation to, for example: Berry, and in other contexts, it's up to you to take care of those who have come home from operations. So it's a little special, for the next time the committee is going to deal with these kinds of issues, it's in common with a foreign committee that hasn't sent out any other staff, but at least has been with and funded aid workers, health workers and solidarity workers who also work in war zones. So it's clear that in the joint work we're going to do in the future in relation to creating humanitarian spaces, there will be different types of personnel to both recruit, carry out wise assignments and, when they get home, have recognition and security. At the next reading in that committee, of course, the defence personnel will increasingly be associated with the personnel they will work with in humanitarian rooms. That'll be interesting. I thought the message was very good at it, and these integrated operations in the future are also the Defense's ability to deal with it. Perhaps one might have something to learn from each other in the different environments, perhaps one on solidarity and assistance may have something to learn from the Defence's follow-up and vice versa. At least it is assumed that those who have been out of the house will have the recognition they need. That's what they're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2292	Initially, I will pay tribute to the Government and government parties for the final presentation of this message and for its good intentions to take care of the personnel through disease prevention and damage prevention and through enhanced follow-up and legal recognition after service. The communication's objective of contributing to better cross-sectoral administrative cooperation in this area is also price-effective. The majority has asked the Government to present a case on the needs, consequences and solutions of personnel involved in international operations. We have asked for this because there is a need to strengthen the follow-up of staff. It concerns the preparation and conduct of foreign operations and the follow-up of staff after they have returned. A more holistic approach is needed to the needs of veterans across different sectors of society. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of prioritising research on mental stress damage and the further development of the defence family policy. The Government's action plan will answer questions about the concreteisation and follow-up of the message, and we hope that the follow-up will be concrete and specific, with clear assignments and clear responsibilities, so that the changes actually come. This message has been strongly criticised by the Hearing Officers. Many at the hearing were upset because they believe that the message does not contain sufficient care for injured veterans and their relatives. The notification is criticised for not holding special rights, for not giving the necessary recognition to the veterans and for not containing anything to improve the situation. Someone said: rather on the contrary. The government was accused in the hearing of returning the veterinary complaint several years ago with this message. Now it's natural to see this message in the context of the odelsting proposition, where the actual law changes are coming. I'm not going to go into that any further, just a reminder that in the Christian People's Party programme for the next period, we say that the defence should have a medical follow-up responsibility the first five years after the end of the service, and later, if necessary. Of course, we'll follow that up when we get to the treatment of the odelstation proposition. We will also do the same when it comes to objective responsibility for the old cases, and for those who have their injuries before 2010, in accordance with what Petersen, the representative, said here. This message, and the concrete legislative changes that the Government has made, is not good enough, in the view of the Christian People's Party. With its decisions to send Norwegian soldiers out in conflict, the Storting has an important responsibility to secure soldiers who have contributed to international operations, good and correct follow-up before, during and after the service. Moreover, the size and society must give greater recognition to the veterans for their efforts and much better care for the women and men involved in foreign operations and their relatives, including the children. We still have some way to go, and we'll get back to the concrete thing about the odelstation proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2309	Also from the Center Party we will express our great satisfaction at the presentation of this message and commend the Government for the work it has done. At the same time, it is also gratifying to record that we have a unanimous committee behind the important committee comments. Participation in foreign operations is an important and integrated element of Norwegian security and defence policy, and more and more of the defence staff will in future have carried out service abroad. Both international solidarity, the fight against terrorism and Norwegian security considerations call for Norway to be an active partner in international crisis management. Contributions to international crisis management must not go beyond the ability to defend Norwegian territory – I think there is a broad consensus on that. Norway’s foreign policy profile and our contribution to international crisis management have an impact on Norway’s security policy situation. We in the Center Party believe that Norwegian military and civil personnel need to be made available to operations under the auspices of the UN to a greater extent than in the past. It shall also be such that, to the extent that Norway participates in NATO operations under the territory of the alliance and outside the alliance, this shall be done on the mandate of the United Nations in the light of a clear UN mandate. The centre part will improve post-protection for veterans. This is absolutely necessary in view of ambitions to be able to provide strengths in foreign operations. Let me then draw attention to some of the excellent comments made by the Committee. The Parties share the view of the Committee and the Government that the defence should be an attractive and secure job which ensures that employees and their ability to have the most normal family life are properly cared for. Through it, that society and the defence have a clear responsibility to care for the personnel deployed in foreign operations. As a result, access to the foreign service of staff means, in the opinion of the Committee and the Centre Party, a special responsibility for the Norwegian authorities. The centre party is pleased to note that Norwegian soldiers involved in operations under particularly demanding conditions are well prepared, and that we keep a good level of quality in the work done. The Committee is concerned that the pre-exit phase is important for the prevention of injury and disease and to facilitate the best possible implementation of the foreign mission. This is in agreement with the Centre Party, and we are pleased that it is underlined. In addition to what I have said here, we will once again stress that the legitimacy of the mission is important for the safety and ability of personnel to perform their duties. The Committee considers it important that Norwegian participation in foreign operations should be clearly anchored in a clear UN mandate or other recognised international legal basis. It was with some disappointment that only a few days ago I read a notice in a present newspaper pointing to a soldier's failure to intervene in a situation that was described, namely violence in a family. It was turned up in such a way that it seemed like our soldiers did not do the job they should do. That is why it was very interesting to see a chronicle in Dagbladet today, where a major at the Air War School in Trondheim goes through the case and illuminates it, and shows that it has other serious aspects that need to be taken care of. Should we let the press freely shape opinions that are reflected in the people, or should we have a body that can at least help to create a debate? And then finally, it's said that you're going to start a project where the government wants to develop a plan for the return phase. Let me mention the Viking Centre in the municipality of Bardu who has just the opportunity to offer an offer to soldiers who come home and who have experienced traumas. Let's have it in mind that you can further develop the good cooperation that is just between the municipality and the centre and the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2332	I would also like to pay tribute to the Government for the fact that we have got a comprehensive and broad case on this. So I would like to make a few comments that we have got it on the Stortings table and for treatment. The key now is what happens in the continuation and continuation. I have a strong advice to give to the Council of State. Based on the fact that the Defense takes responsibility, at least one year, the Defense must, in order for the entire Norwegian community to stand up, whether in terms of healthcare or whatever, to sit in the driver's seat. I've been a State Council for six and a half years myself. I was responsible for making sure to do something about violence in close relationships. The Ministry of Justice had to sit in the driver's seat for that. I can trust the Storting and the Assembly here that it took a while before the cultures sat down everywhere. But if you just make an action plan, it floats out. So, the field-working sosion about Odd Einar Dørum, the staging representative Odd Einar Dørum and Odd Einar Dørum, the staging representative with state council experience, are now speaking with great weight. If this is going to happen, you would have to call the action plan a project, so that all the shoulders lower, and the peace and tranquillity drop around the government tables and where it might be. But there must be no doubt that it is the Ministry of Defence who is in charge of it. I say it with that strength because I was present at one of the two collections we've had with veterans. It was at the Open Theatre, where the general inspector of the Army Robert Mood, who later got another central job for the Norwegian community – I was about to say that he would be my favorite social worker – spoke as a person who took responsibility, and spoke so wisely that I realized that it was a person who would be able to mobilize etc. Of course, you can't direct yourself to good solutions, but everyone knows that the situation of the veterans is not understood by most. It is understood by those involved, and the rest of the social system does not understand it without a doubt, just as the rest of the social system does not understand the fight against coercion, against sexual mutilation — without comparison; it becomes too special. Then someone has to sit in the mobilization role. I have no doubt that it is the Ministry of Defence that has to take that role, both because you are close to the people involved, and because I believe you are now proving that you want to take action, and that you are proving that you have empathy. Both of these parts are needed. I was also at an excellent meeting where several of us who are representatives here in the house met veterans on Bærøya. I have no doubt that that is the way you have to deal with this, so that there will be something in the follow-up. So the action plan is excellent, but it also allowed the action plan to become something of a time-limit, where cultures are set. I'm going to end the analogy with the fight against violence in close relationships. The first year you had to do it with the police, you had to wait, the second year you had to do a little bit, and the third year you had to regulate access. It is that once it comes to pressure in a structure, it will behave. But the veterans deserve the pressure to proliferate into the civil society structures. Then I can also recommend the Viking Center in Goal Self as an excellent place that you can use and that you should take care of. Then I'd like to make two more very brief comments. There has been a certain debate – intelligent contributions from the leaders of the defense, I would say – that when we are in a situation in the world, and where we do things that are not known to most people in society, society must give a kind of recognition, so that you get a kind of culture that gives recognition, instead of getting a kind of mercenary culture on the inside of a group. It was a colonel who wrote about this the other day. It was very insightfully written. It's fine. I expect that when people come back from duty, they are accepted. But it has to be a little staggered around it. We don't become militarists in Norway even though we honor and honor someone who does something. We come with flags in anarchistic Norwegian way when someone has won a medal in the Olympics or something. The defense doesn't have the detached anarchy, and you don't have to have the parade at Champs-Elysées -- where I've been standing once and having a very strange feeling standing there -- but there's something in between. There is something about accepting people with dignity and style and thanks, so that you feel that you are seen and recognized. I need to say that, and I think it's a good effort to prevent, so you avoid some of the cultures that the officer wrote about. Finally, with regard to the compensation that people will receive, given that there are objective reasons, the Left's position is short and simple: the rules must be the same for everyone, whether they started now or then. There must be no distinction in the veteran group. You just have to cut through there and make sure it's the 65 Gs that apply. We're now setting a culture where we're going to be able to carry future foreign operations. We're going to do it in a healthy way, with the base and the backbone of the defense we have. But I'll stop where I started. I'd like to commend the department for offering a real job, and that gives a good starting point for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2362	Taking care of the veterans after foreign missions has been a field of activity for our government. Participation in foreign operations is, as has been said by several here, part of the Norwegian defence and security policy. It is also a fact that more and more of the defence staff have a foreign service. Through its efforts, the defence personnel have helped to create peace and stability outside, and thus also security and security for us at home. That means that when we send our women and men into conflict zones, it is a great responsibility for us, and they must be sure that we will take care of them when they come home. A comprehensive review of the arrangements and measures implemented during this period and the new measures will be provided. I want to put some emphasis on it, because there are measures in many areas. The representative Petersen spoke a little bit about international cooperation. It is also one of the measures that are new and that I fully agree with will be important and correct, and also provide an understanding of what is being done for the veterans. I also have to say that with this message, I do not think we from Norway need to put ourselves in line at the back of the line, because this is a work that has not been taken by so many people, even when we see internationally. But very many governments and very many countries are concerned about this and stand up in the same situation. There is a need for action not only in the field of defence but across the board. Therefore, it is important that we make this action plan, precisely in order to capture the social sectors that are under the territory of several ministries. That's also why it says, so we need to know what we're doing, both in terms of research and in terms of cooperation, whether there's cooperation with the health care community or with Nav. The message is called "before, during, and after" operations. We will take care of personnel before, during and after operations, so the preparation phase and the post phase are important. Let me also say a few words about the proposition that is going to be dealt with in Odelstinget a little bit later, because more people have been involved in it. It is quite correct that it was originally outsourced with objective responsibility both in the future and in the future. But it's been a hearing. We've looked at this in context. We have come to the conclusion that it is right to take an objective responsibility in the future. We take full responsibility when we take an objective responsibility. Taking an objective responsibility backwards in time is more demanding. In addition, we have to look at this in an overall perspective, in conjunction with other groups. What is also a triggering factor, and which makes it a slightly different situation today than it was before, is that the obligation to order has come in, so that those who are in the Defense today cannot avoid service. It's no longer optional, everyone has to leave. The Viking Centre and other places that have been mentioned can be very good institutions to cooperate with, because an important part of this plan is the construction of a mental health service for the veterans. When we have fallen down to one year's follow-up in the law, it is also because it was said by our professional authority that if you follow the soldiers well after they have come home, very much can be done the first year. But we're not going to be square about providing health services. The defense is not going to reject anyone, but we're going to have a good cooperation with the civil health community as well. I am very pleased that there is broad agreement and praiseworthy words to the Government for this work. I listened to Christian People's Party posts with a certain interest. A lot of the old things we're going to clean up now are 30 years old things. There have been many governments that have been able to address this. I just want to say once again that we have been working on this all my time as Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2381	I took a line to spin on a thread. My young son once said to me, after serving his duty to protect Bardufoss: Father, you wouldn't have wanted to be defended by those who had great pleasure in being there; it was all of us other people who did it normally, who did it right. There was a kind of social stability in the breadth of Norwegian defence. I'm concerned about how we can now get to that width in a new situation, with veterans out there. That's why I think the Lieutenant Colonel I quoted from the pulpit, who wrote about how we can recognise people, with the help of preventing us from ending up in situations that end up in security firms or what they are. I took the floor because I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State on how we can show respect and recognition, so that we are seen, because there is a great contrast between putting up and risking a lot – and then finding the wise ways to be seen. So I'm just encouraging the Council of State to think a little bit loud about this in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2390	The fact that we're making messages and focusing on the work of vets, that we're saying that a veteran is one that per. This is why we have veterans who are only a few and twenty years old, and we have veterans from World War II, but they are per year. the definition of veterans – that is the most important thing. So there's different ways to recognize. Of course, we have the economics. Fixing matters for people who have worn out, and who may have legal issues, is an important way of recognising. And of course, giving honors and distinctions is also an important part of what the government is working on, and we're going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2397	The council replied so well that I would like to continue the reasoning. I mentioned from the pulpit what happens when our sports heroes go out and come back: I know the defense is doing something, but I think you should think about something you can do to show recognition socially. I don't expect to get answers here and now, but I think it'll be a very wise act. You're going out, you're coming back: thank you, good luck! I mean, it's good folk in this country. I've been in other parts of my life doing it to volunteer rescue work. I have e.g. itself, as State Council in previous parts of my life, after a rescue operation had been at the 330-square, e.g. on the sun and heard what they had to say, for they had something to say. So that's thinking about the wise things that I would like to hear the further reasoning of the Council of State, and then I'm not going to take any more lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2404	Some of this is done, but we can probably get better. I have no doubt that we can get better both at accepting soldiers when they come home, and at all the other things that are discussed in the message. I'm going to take Dørum's input with me and see what more we can do about it. It's clear to make this visible in the media, talk about the veterans, so people get to know this business and the big job that I'm incredibly proud that our soldiers are doing is an important part. But I'm going to take the tape with me and see how we can do even more stuff on the veterans when they get home.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2411	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2414	Participation in foreign operations is an important and integral part of Norwegian security and defence policy, and it is a natural part of defence activities. All the women and men who have participated in and are out in such service have done and do an impressive job for the country and for the international community. The situation of veterans must be taken with the greatest seriousness — and on the part of Storting, we must listen in particular to the feedback from the veterans on working conditions and conditions after the end of service. During this great period, there has been a very strong search for the situation of the veterans, and I believe that we have gone a great step further in improving the conditions for our veterans. And I will also commend the Council of State for the many initiatives she has taken in this context. With the current big message, we are taking new steps to provide Norwegian personnel with the necessary training, follow-up and recognition for their efforts. With this, we also provide greater predictability and security for the personnel and their relatives. I saw the hearing as very positive. And after what I can remember, there was only one hearing body that thought that the message should be sent back to the Government for some reason. So here I and the representative Sahl probably have a different opinion. As politicians, we must also contribute through our decisions to a greater understanding in all parts of society of the special mission it is to do such service, and of the needs associated with follow-up in retrospect. Therefore, good cooperation on these issues across the social sectors is also required in order to maintain these personnel. Soldiers often look back on the service as an important experience, but risks and strong experiences can also be very deep. Therefore, these people are entitled to a good follow-up both during and after the end of their ministry. Here, the very best offers must be offered, and I would also like to highlight the Viking Centre in Troms as a good offer for those who need such assistance afterwards. I feel very grateful for the efforts made by these personnel, and I believe that we must constantly have a keen eye for improvements and measures that are necessary to give these people the best possible service and existence as a veteran.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2429	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2432	For many years – especially in recent years – I have had many conversations with and enquiries from participants in foreign operations, often called veterans, and thereby gained an understanding of the problems, both large and small, they often get. Some suffer tendon damage of varying nature and extent. These may come immediately, or if, for example: 10 years. The reason I say this is to explain that neither a staging message nor an odelsting proposition can be made to satisfy all the many girls and boys – until this matter is too big and not least complicated. But it's to believe and wish that it's a bit on the way, maybe a big piece, to help those who were willing to sacrifice everything – and some life itself – to believe in peace. It's important that those who leave are the best fit for it. It is important that training before travelling is sufficient and good enough. It is important that the service down there is adapted to what they traveled to do. It is important that they have equipment, such as: adequate safety equipment, e.g. Armoured cars, are in the right number and good enough. It is important that they are demolished to a large extent when they come back – and not least thanks. It is important that the number of periods at home is enough — not one by one, as some specialists experience, or one by three, which is quite common, but the desirable thing is one by five. Finally, it is important that after-sales protection is in place, with all that it entails, with respect to, for example: health and economics. I would also like to commend all those who should be praised for the fact that the war disabled home at Kongswinger is again a place where veterans can meet. Such gathering sites are very important — and far more important than most people think. Otherwise, I would like to thank all those who were just willing to sacrifice their lives in the service of peace. Your efforts are very respectful.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2443	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2460	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2467	St.meld by the Government. No 13 for 2008-2009 on development policy raises many important issues. As the rapporteur for the Committee's position, I am pleased to be able to conclude that here in the Grand Duchy again we have the power to create important, agreed conclusions on most of the major issues, although they are also these. Development assistance is only one part of our interface with developing countries. In order to create a more coherent and comprehensive Norwegian development policy, changes are needed in other policy areas, so that they strongly support the objectives of development policy. Therefore, it is politically important when the entire Committee is united in stating that the premise for closer links between development and foreign policy should be more consistent with the objectives of the Norwegian development policy, which are poverty reduction and the promotion of human rights. It is essential that aid policy be geared to developing needs of developing countries and that it is not made a tool to promote the interests of industrialised countries. Globalisation is increasing the need to finance global assets, such as international security, operating financial systems, a stable climate, security against epidemics, etc. We need a new category of international statistics, so that nations can make their contribution to funding international actions to secure global benefits. It is positive that the Government launches that idea. The Committee goes further. Norway can go ahead and set an example for others in this area. A Joint Committee therefore asks the Government to consider setting up a dedicated budget area for the financing of global common funds, other than the aid budget. The Committee further points out that what is to be covered by the aid budget is actions which have the primary objective of developing poor countries, while actions which have global common resources as their primary objective are to be financed from other budgets. Where the main objective is not development assistance to poor countries, this shall not be financed. Evaluation has shown clear weaknesses in development cooperation. It is our duty to improve the assistance. In order not to exceed the capacity of the assistance manager, the entire Committee considers that a large-scale and long-term bilateral cooperation from state to state should concentrate on fewer countries than is currently the case. There is an international trend towards failure of long-term, inadequate fulfilment of assistance commitments, and rapid shifts in focus and assistance facilities are being made by donor countries. To this end, the Committee clarifies that development cooperation should be based on long-term, professionalism and the needs and assumptions of the recipient countries. The main message mentions far more areas than before as sectors where Norway has valuable experience and competence for use in development cooperation. That's good. But we must always remember that it is the needs of developing countries that must decide on the choice of response. The assistance must be recipient-oriented, non-gender-oriented. The UN's Millennium Goals are the leaders of Norwegian development policy. These objectives were jointly adopted by developing countries and developed countries at the turn of the millennium, and commit to us in particular during the period we are now in the mid-term, i.e. until 2015. To this end, the Committee unanimously confirms that aid for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, not least in the field of health and education, should be given priority in Norwegian development cooperation. As is well known, Norway has taken on a special responsibility for contributing to the health-related thousand-year targets. We're still going to follow that up. It is good that the Government regularly flag this offensively, both in Norway and internationally. A particularly important and new clarification is made by the entire Committee. It is that the share of Norwegian education aid should now be increased. This is also new in relation to the big picture and an important policy direction for the years to come. The fight against climate change is a global shared responsibility, but the developed countries have a particular historical responsibility and the largest financial and technological resources to tackle the problems. Industrialised countries must therefore go ahead and demonstrate that environmentally friendly economic growth is possible. Also u-country needs clean energy. It can be achieved by hydropower in some places, but we also need to invest more in solar energy and wind power. Conservation of natural forests is a cost-effective way to avoid emissions of CO2. The whole Committee shares that view and stresses the requirement for third party confirmation or verification. It is necessary to avoid so-called carbon leakage by stopping at most one location leading only to increased at most elsewhere. The 2007 UN Climate Action Plan requires the increased funding of climate action to be ‘new and additional’. If the OECD countries now invest the funding of climate action within the development aid budget framework, climate action will be at the expense of the fight against poverty. It may make it difficult to bring developing countries into a new climate agreement. War and conflict create humanitarian crises and sustain poverty. Economic growth and development seem to be anti-war. In Afghanistan, Sudan and the Middle East, military forces are not enough to create security and stability. A comprehensive approach through assistance and policy is needed to create a better and safer future. Many major acts have allowed their geopolitical interests and military foreign exposures to become dominant also for large parts of civil development assistance. Norway and other like-minded countries, on the other hand, have placed greater emphasis on poverty orientation in the aid facility. Norway has been given the credit for this, and I am pleased with the cross-political agreement to continue this line. We have long used a number of instruments to influence large capital flows, so that developing countries can reap greater benefits from international trade and get more private investment so that growth and employment can be created. It is a strong signal when, from an ethical point of view, the entire Committee considers it appropriate to establish a new investment fund outside the assistance budget, based on a limited proportion of the funds of the State pension fund – abroad. The government is asked to assess this further. Another option, which is now being discussed at full international level, is to create new sources of financing for development by introducing small international levies on selected economic activities. It is demanding to have international impact on this, and it could be exciting to hear Norway continue to work on it in the future, if the Council of State could comment on it. Following the intervention of Aktion deletes the unindebtedness and the youth organisation Changemaker, a unanimous committee calls for a Norwegian debt audit to look for illegitimate debt that should be erased and strengthen the rules for responsible lending. I would like to thank all the fractions of the Foreign Affairs Committee for their cooperation and many more good, coherent formulations and guidelines for policy in this area. This is important for a field where Norway has high ambitions, but where good anchoring is important in Stortinget. Finally, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to briefly highlight five points, which we consider particularly important. Firstly, the average of increasing the share of Norwegian aid in education aid is a battle cause for us. Now a new trend is being announced. We value that highly. Secondly, the inter-politicisation of increasing Norwegian support for agricultural development and food security is important. This we believe will also make the fight against poverty more effective. Thirdly, the demarcation between development aid and the financing of global goods is, in principle, very important. Fourthly, the fact that new climate measures should be really new and so-called additional to development assistance is a principle that it is important to ensure in the years to come. And last, fifthly, I would like to point out that the Christian People's Party – together with the Progress Party and the Left – has its own proposal where the Stortinget asks the Government to set up its own investment fund for poor developing countries. It is necessary, not least now, to counteract the negative effects of the financial crisis on many of the world's poorest countries. In accordance with this, I address the proposal from the minority, which is notified in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2537	The representative Dagfinn Højbråten has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2540	Let me return my thanks to the case rapporteur for his contribution to a very broad consensus in the Norwegian Development Policy. It's an important signal, not least when we know that the Progress Party stands for a completely different development policy line. One year ago, 29 May last year, the Stortinget addressed the communication on women's rights and gender equality in development policy. It was the first big message of its kind in Norway, but actually also the first in its battle on a global scale, for which the Minister of Development should be commended. The majority — and the Minister for Development — took seriously the fact that the Millennium Goals can never be achieved without changing the life situation and everyday life of women. Two thirds of the world's poor are women. Poverty orientation in aid and other development policies means that we must help to give women the opportunity to take their rightful place in development policy. Norway has assumed a specific responsibility for the Millennium Goals No. 4 and Nos 5, to reduce infant mortality and to reduce the risk of death in pregnancy. There are areas in the world where the most dangerous days in life are the day you are born, and the day you create life by putting children into the world. While Angola is a nation flowing with oil money, the birthplaces in Luanda are among the worst in the world. We don't want it like that. Gender equality is therefore one of the main areas of action — or the main strands — for Norwegian development policy. This is an area where Norway has a special advantage, where we can make a difference. It concerns assistance for training for girls in vulnerable countries or assistance following natural disasters. At a meeting in the International Forum in Oslo Labour Party last week, Jan Egeland told us that when they came in with emergency aid for the victims of the earthquake in Pakistan, it led, among other things, to the death of the victims. for girls to go to school for the first time in the camps that were set up. It is about securing the female farmers in Africa in the negotiations of the World Health Organisation. It also concerns Security Resolution 1325, to give women the power to help determine the development of post-conflict areas when building peace. And it's about "women can" courses, about schooling girls in the voluntary sector and women politicians and parliamentarians in developing countries. These are areas where we can make a difference. These are comparative advantages — a division of labour between countries and aid actors with the aim of contributing to the achievement of the Millennium Goals: removing poverty, ensuring a change in the structures of power within each country and between poor and rich countries. More people will gain control of their own lives. It is about making aid more strategic, but also looking at aid as just part of development policy. That means a closer connection between, among other things. foreign policy, development policy, security policy and environmental policy. It also involves taking strategic action throughout development policy. A large majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, believes it is important to ensure that the poor countries have political space for action, governance and instruments that have been important to develop our own country into a welfare society. This will include, inter alia: say the right to a welfare and distribution policy and the right to an active enterprise and employment policy, which also means the possibility, for a longer period, to protect sectors and industries under construction. Then it is vital that the financial crisis does not lead to an increase in protectionism in our part of the world and to a reduction in development aid. A dynamic business life is a prerequisite for economic growth and development. The path out of poverty and dependence on foreign aid is going through sustainable economic development. It also requires cooperation between the Community and the market, where the Community's welfare services and industrial development together create values. Measures – as the Committee also stresses – are important to formalise the informal sector. In particular, many women sell goods on the market outside the formal economy. Microcredit is one of the instruments of assistance that can help integrate this market into the official economy. Aid for Trade — providing developing countries with trade competence by developing the necessary infrastructure for agricultural and industrial development — is one of the main areas of Norwegian aid. It must also be seen in connection with our own willingness to open our borders to imports from the countries we have assisted with Aid for Trade. I would like to refer here to the debate on Swaziland. It recognises the importance of civil society in developing countries. At least as important is support for political parties. We do not achieve a well-functioning democracy without strong political parties. Support for political parties has been underestimated in aid for too long. The same applies to active support for parliaments, the very basis for a democratic system and for development. For many years, several of us have visited a country where Members of Parliament have asked for financial support in order to function as elected representatives of the people in a fragile democracy. For this reason, the Committee emphasises the need for democratic support. It also means that we believe that we must contribute to the involvement of parliaments in both bilateral and multilateral aid processes. It is important that this responsibility is not managed by each country's government alone, but is enshrined in real democratic processes, including in parliaments. Therefore, the Nordic model of social development is also one of the areas in which Norway has valuable competence – a comparative advantage in our development policy as well. As part of the process of a more strategic development policy, the Government will focus on using the advantage of each aid channel. In order to increase the overall effectiveness of global assistance, we need to ensure a good division of labour between actors. That's why we give priority to equality, and we have to give priority to education. I would like to point out that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party decided that equality and education should be the main priorities of development policy. As regards the division of labour between aid channels, we also see in some countries, cf. Afghanistan or what happened in Bosnia in its time, that coordination of assistance in individual countries is very important, and that the division of labour between different actors is actually very important in that process. We have recognised competence in many areas. We also have that in terms of climate, in terms of peace building, in terms of human rights, and we have it not least in terms of oil management and good governance. It is not that poverty can be halved by 2015 just by launching individual projects. Power structures between rich and poor countries, as well as elites in individual countries, are also the reason why we cannot eradicate poverty. Therefore, good governance is important, to do something about international structures and to ensure that natural resources benefit the population. Let me also underline the gradual turnaround of assistance to countries on the way out of a violent conflict and to countries facing specific climate challenges. I can mention Afghanistan and Sudan, and there are other examples, like Palestine. Finally, in the years I have worked on development policy and assistance, there are in particular three images that have been caught on the Internet: One is a visit to a United Nations-supported clinic in Maputo, supported by Norwegian money. They prevented HIV/AIDS, but they also had patients. The nurse looked us in the eyes and said, "The worst thing is to tell them that they're going to die." The second is when I gave talks on Norwegian equality policy for women politicians from six Andes countries in Lima, Peru. It was dead quiet in the hall. The girls put tears in their eyes, and they said afterwards, "We didn't know that was possible." And all ordered "Women Can" courses. This is also development policy — ensuring that girls gain power, that girls can become capable politicians and change the social structure. The third image I remember is our visit to Namibia, where with Norwegian help they have developed a well-functioning fisheries management regime. It hasn't cost us so much, either, but it was our knowledge, our competence, that ensured that the Namibian authorities could also develop a fisheries management regime. These are the areas in which we've engaged ourselves with our comparative advantage, and we're going to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2592	The paper provides a clear overview of a comprehensive and demanding area, such as development policy. And it illustrates, at least for me who reads, that sitting in, for example. Oslo and decide that we should eradicate poverty in land x or y, is an almost impossible exercise. But nevertheless, there is an exercise that Norwegian politicians, officials and women and voluntary organisations like to throw themselves into, for justice, hunger, distress, sickness and misery rebel against us as fellow humans and as politicians. We want to end what's bad. We want to adopt something better. Year after year we try to adopt a better world, both in Norwegian budgets and at international conferences. Too often, these decisions become unprofitable. We despair, but shake it off quickly and try to make more and more decisions – because that is not the will it stands for. And it really isn't. The exposure in Norway to developing countries is unique and something we should be absolutely proud of. Perhaps we should rather look at the decisions, look at the experience of our policies, listen more to those we need to help, and above all not only feel but also understand. What I understand after working part of this topic over a few years is that changes are demanding. Many, both in Norway and abroad, have great interests in the fact that conditions continue somewhat as before. This is not in any way abnormal or wrong, but it may not be particularly conducive to development either. Other things are that development policy very often becomes as much Norwegian domestic policy as poverty reduction in developing countries. The third recognition is at least the most important to me, and that is that every rule has an exception. All countries and people are different. Doubt is often better a strong faith. Development policies must meet with humility, openness, patience and knowledge. The criticism of aid has become stronger and stronger. Even traditional aid defenders would like to point out that mistakes have to be learned and that there is now something new in the aid compared to the past. In this self-critical political landscape, therefore, the Progress Party chooses to voice its criticism of aid by removing a very strong formulation of cutting all aid in our party programme. When many more now seem to agree with us, it may be strange that we are mothering in this way, but once again it is about being open that assistance can also be an instrument in the fight for development. But we have not changed our view that state aid is essentially a way of providing assistance that does not promote good development policy objectives. We have not changed our view of the need for reform in the United Nations. And last but not least, we have not changed our view that economic growth is creating wealth – not passive aid. One of the major challenges international in these times of crisis is the relationship with protectionism. The representative of Marit Nybakk was also involved. Do we want countries to be able to protect themselves behind customs barriers and other barriers, or do we want free trade and more globalisation? Many have warned against the protectionism and nationalism that became practice in the world in the 1930s, after the financial crisis of the time. All responsible leaders strongly warn against going the same way – including our own foreign minister. Unfortunately, we see that, for example, the United States administration is very quick to introduce measures requiring only American action, contrary to its own rhetoric and historical knowledge. But what about developing countries? There it seems as if we set aside the experience of the 1930s in Europe and accept that protectionism is a good way to go. The sub-Saharan region of Africa is the most protectionist region in the world. 70 pst. of all trade barriers are introduced by poor countries – targeting poor people in other poor countries. Calculations show that if this kind of protectionism were to be abolished in southern Africa, it would immediately strengthen these countries' economies by well over $1 billion. When the vote takes the form of a comment on the need for political action, it sounds provocative. But it's not random how such a space of action is used. And as long as we are partners with developing countries, we want Norway's agenda to be that these countries gradually abandon isolationism and protectionism. Now I'm going to be careful to make this an ideological debate, but I'm afraid politicians are going to take advantage of the fear of a failing economy and the loss of jobs by focusing their finger on capitalism and globalisation, on transparency and cooperation. In the European Parliament's election, we learned that extreme parties, with different names and labels, did it very well. Most of these left or right-wing parties share the view that they are opposed to capitalism, the market and globalisation. Several of them are nationalistic and racist, such as: the right-hand extreme Jobbik from Hungary. I was inside their website, and the argument was a mix of the arguments of Vigrid and Attack – terrible and frightening. This is the kind of movement and attitude we have to fight. Then it is mildly said paradoxically to recognise the policy of parties such as the British National Party or the Front National as good enough for developing countries. In Norway, we have widely accepted that globalisation and free trade are the best. Then we must also become ambassadors for this kind of policy internationally. From a European perspective, the degree of ideological consensus in Norway is almost unnatural. Climate is a central part of the message. The ability of developing countries to address the climate challenge is important, but there is one area I want to comment on, and that is the link between climate and conflict. Now I'm not going to say that it's not a connection – from a long distance – but I'm going to warn you that we're focusing too strongly on this. We now have a president in Sudan who is accused by the ICC of crimes against humanity. We must never allow him or others to defend themselves because climate change is the fault. Conflict researcher Henrik Urdal warns against mythology such as that expulsion necessarily gives rise to violent conflicts. We must not help militarize the climate debate and, in the next round, give legitimacy to dictators who increase military spending. There is a desire for new funding mechanisms to raise more money internationally for development. This can, of course, be good. However, we are a little skeptical – perhaps not just a little – because, in our opinion, the most important and best thing we can do in the future, and which we should focus most of the resources internationally on, is to put the Doha Round in place in the WTO, because the gains we can get from this will surpass all the world's new funding mechanisms. It is not that everything that needs to be solved has to be solved by transferring more money. It is also about political will. It's about political leaders at all levels that are more concerned with those they're set to serve than by themselves. It's about openness and freedom and much more. The list is long. It's kind of banal. We repeat it quite often, but it deserves to be mentioned, because there must never be the impression of state leaders in developing countries that they can hide behind their own unwillingness and self-corruption because the West does not provide enough. Only the rich countries will give more, and everything will be fine. So it's not the recipe for success. There are historical examples that where rich countries have done little, things have gone better. Now I'm not going to prescribe it as the recipe necessarily everywhere – perhaps especially in some countries in Africa – but it's also worth taking with me. With proposals for a new global funding mechanism and with strong wording, not least in the budget, on Norwegian aid and its level, one almost gets the impression that aid is an independent objective. Giving a lot of help shows that you have a good heart, the opposite shows something else. Now I am back to how the assistance is used domestically. In particular, the wording of the Christian People's Party and the Left argues on how to 'ensure a broad political upturn in relatively high aid allocations in the future'. It is said that much assistance is an end in itself – regardless of how it works, regardless of the situation of the recipient countries, regardless of all that the assistance is only an instrument to achieve. The formulation can also be interpreted in such a way that there is no confidence that the aid will bring about the necessary changes. Everyone agrees that democracy is a prerequisite for development. The Progress Party does not believe that it is a prerequisite for Norwegian political parties to and must be responsible for the transfer of knowledge. We will not claim that there is no good competence in our parties, but we do not find it natural that a separate financing mechanism is created to discharge the party's developmental commitment. Here, there might as well be other non-governmental organisations – Norwegian or international – that can do such a good job. The lack of energy is one of the main obstacles to development. The Committee agrees that Norway has a major role to play in many fields. It's a demanding sector to engage in, but we support the Government's commitment. We will also stress that a coherent development policy is also about the responsible use of the resources that nature has given us, both on the mainland and on our base. The reduction of own oil and gas activities is not a good contribution globally, either environmentally or in terms of development. Finally, a lot of Norwegian aid, a lot of the increase we have seen in the aid budgets lately, goes through the UN. So this is an important developmental policy channel for the Government and for Norway. We all want a relevant and effective UN. Every day is often a little bit different. And while we are waiting for reforms to work, or for them to be adopted at all, Norway continues to invest heavily. And to a small extent, we experience that Norway is using pressure with its appropriations. We now see that our neighbouring country Sweden requires reforms in order to continue to finance – in this case – five different UN organisations. And I want to challenge the Minister for the Environment and Development whether he has been in contact with his Swedish colleague or other Nordic colleagues to see if it might be useful to coordinate and practice a common Nordic press. I'm going to believe that the Nordic countries, taken together, may be the very biggest contributor to many of these organizations, and that this would enable us to put in place reforms that I think most people would think were useful and good. So far we have not heard anything from the Government in that way. That is why we look forward to being informed during this debate. Otherwise, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Højbräten, who also explained very well to many of the things we, after all, agree on in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2631	The Government’s development message is a comprehensive document covering a broad and important theme. I would also like to put myself in the order of those who give the case rapporteur, Højbräten, the honor of having carried out a very thorough processing of the notification. Over many years, Norway has been one of the world’s most aided countries, measured in dollars per year. the population. The overall objectives have been to contribute to poverty reduction, economic and social development and the promotion of human rights. There has been a significant degree of political agreement on the broad lines of development policy — albeit with some exceptions. St.meld. No 13 builds on and continues the main lines of Norwegian aid and development policy, while the Government in the Communication shows that the whole policy area and the debate around it are changing. In the context of the development and aid debate, both in the political environment and in the professional environment, the debate on how to allocate an ever-increasing aid budget has remained for too long. Reality has shown that such an approach is not enough. Over several years, it has become increasingly clear that aid has helped only to a limited extent to lift people out of poverty. Many of the main obstacles to development are beyond the scope of assistance. This has also been addressed by the Minister of Development and the Government in this Communication. The Government's willingness to think as a whole and a greater degree of coherent development policy are entirely positive. Nevertheless, the recognition that aid alone cannot create development has been a long way inside the Norwegian aid environment. Globalisation and international free trade are much stronger development engines than assistance, but this has had a limited impact on aid policy. Trust in assistance has remained high and the level of ambition has remained high. The Norwegian debate on assistance has focused on the size of the appropriations for official assistance, ODA assistance, typically in proportion to gross domestic product or national income – as a feature of a good poverty reduction policy. The government's violent focus on meeting its own one percentage point shows that old performances are still hard on. Instead of saying that it has worked positively, one might just as well argue that this notion has weakened the effect of the assistance. When the target is increased budgets, the need to evaluate results and improve efforts becomes less. The Minister for Development has himself stated that since the budgets are growing, there is no need to deprioritise anything. Such an attitude is not only unfortunate for the very part of development policy, since all policy at the end is about priorities, and because some things are actually more important than others, it is also unfortunate in the context of the legitimacy of development policy in the Norwegian people, and their willingness to pay for it. Nor have Norwegian authorities prioritised knowledge of how the aid works. After more than 40 years of Norwegian aid efforts, results reports were submitted only in 2007 and 2008 by NORAD. Unique responses to the proper functioning of the assistance are not provided in the reports. Right-wing wants a development policy that is measured in results rather than in percentages of GDP. This is precisely why it is so vital that Norway manages to pursue a coherent and coherent development policy. Several instruments need to be used, and several policy areas need to be considered in a coherent way if Norway is to contribute positively to development and poverty reduction. At the same time, the assistance we continue to provide must be more concentrated and targeted and subject to strict performance requirements. St.meld. No 13 is a positive signal of better changes in the first of these moments, but unfortunately fails in the second. In view of these overall lines, there are some aspects of the message itself that deserve closer discussion. One is the way in which the notification is incorporated into the policy pursued by the Minister for Development and the Environment in his years in the Council of State — or the chairs, to be accurate. Already in the first sentence of the Single European Act, the world’s biggest challenges are defined precisely as those Norway, according to the Government, have special prerequisites for solving. These councils' own work and interests are sometimes duplicated. The Storing Communication provides a broad description of the framework conditions for development, draws the long lines and the broad visions. At the same time, the descriptions are not followed up with concrete proposals for new measures or instruments in other policy areas to support development policy objectives. The government explicitly writes in the message: ‘Where necessary, concrete follow-up tools will be developed later’. This is a line both the Stortinget and the trade unions are constantly meeting with the Minister of Development. He prefers to operate on the overall level. Ministerial portfolios are mixed, land allocations and earmarked thematic budget lines are shifted to major regional aid budget appropriations. The transparency, participation and control of the size is reduced accordingly. To put it at the forefront, the Storting must take the necessary steps, so that a coherent and coherent development policy and an increased margin of action for the Government do not become a policy in which large parts of the budget are brought together and placed at the free disposal of the Council of State. Many seem to see a drift in that direction in the policy of this government and in this Council of State, not least in the area of aid policy. For this reason, the opposition stands together on comments that underline the need to further include the professional expertise built up over several decades – not least to avoid a politicising overarching which, in the worst case, may help to weaken the professional judgements and criteria that should be used as a basis for development and assistance policy. Short-term and politically motivated priorities must not undermine long-term assistance or assistance in general. This is important, because although development policy is more than aid, development policy is also aid – this year with a budget of €26.2 billion, a huge sum that obliges those who manage it. To this end, aid must be measured according to results, not according to the level of funding. Assistance should be concentrated, both thematically and geographically, not least in order to verify its effectiveness. Much more concrete performance targets need to be established and both monitoring and evaluation must be prioritised. The choice of the aid channel must be guided by the need to deliver results and efficiency. In another Storingsmessage Stortinget has for the moment to be treated, St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009 on the broad lines of foreign policy, the Government writes on engagement policy, including assistance: «A common feature of the exposure policy is that it is demanding to measure and document results.» And on the other hand, ‘In order to remedy this, the Government therefore places considerable emphasis on performance orientation in the various policy areas. The challenges of documentation of results must never become any sleeping cushion that legitimizes a lack of focus on quality and efficiency.’ This last sentence right here will give its full support to. Unfortunately, it is more difficult to see that the Government, through its policy, is proposing to succeed in this. These weaknesses have been consistently highlighted by the right in relation to performance targets, monitoring and evaluation. So does the Riksrevision. In addition to the fact that such shortcomings have a sub-optimal effect on the recipient side, there is also a significant need to respond to voters’ requests for information and transparency on how to use the assistance money. In order for assistance to be effective, it is therefore necessary to develop more precise performance targets and to strengthen control of the achievement of the objectives. Some closing considerations, particularly in the signs of convergence: parallel to a significant assistance effort, Norway has maintained high customs barriers and defended a trade policy that creates effective barriers to developing countries’ export opportunities. This is a striking contradiction in Norwegian policy. The OECD has estimated that agricultural aid in developed countries represents many times all official aid. Norway, like so many other countries, gives with one hand and takes with the other. The experience of world history in the last hundred years shows that open economy, competition and market access contribute to the creation of growth and development. Exports and trade are so powerful drivers of development that Norway should no longer pursue a trade policy at the expense of the opportunities of poor countries. At the same time, development policy must help to strengthen the trade competence and capacity of poor countries. Given a better provision of development policy, the Right believes that rich countries such as Norway need to be prepared to increase efforts to combat poverty and contribute to more sustainable development. But increasing efforts does not mean increasing assistance. Increased efforts for development may be made in other ways and in other policy areas and budget chapters than by an increase in official development assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2682	I too would like to thank the rapporteur. The world's poverty is not random. The fight against poverty is a struggle to change unfair international power structures and power structures in individual countries. It is a work where assistance is one of several instruments. Financial support can help to shift power and resources and thus give people power over their own lives. 1 pst. GNI for assistance is a formidable promise and a fulfillment of an important promise. The government has added the list of future governments and cut off aid at a high political cost. Nevertheless, aid never solves poverty problems alone. Assistance is the little money that is going to trigger the big ones. The space for development is about power. The aim of development policy must be to change the structures of power, give voices to the deaf – and especially to the women. I would then like to stress all that Marit Nybakk said about development policy for women. That's good! Therefore, it is not just the aid that should be development-oriented. Trade policy must be. Investment policy and our policy towards the World Bank and the IMF must be so. As one said at the Doha Conference on Financing for Development, we don't get what we deserve, we get what we negotiate. So this is about power. If the poor countries are to achieve development, they must be given the strength to negotiate and place around the table where it is being negotiated. It is good that the narrow circle of countries in the G8 has expanded with central and increasingly important countries in the G20. But the most important decisions have to be made in the forums where everyone can meet, and they can do so in the United Nations. The main work on resolving the climate crisis, the food crisis and the financial crisis must be done in the UN. This is why it is so important that Norway and other countries continue to modernise the UN. We cannot leave the main work of resolving the crises that have arisen after the reign of neoliberalism to those institutions – the World Bank and the IMF – that used Reagan and Thatcher’s recipe to practice neoliberal demands against developing countries. Their demands led to smaller countries, more deregulations and privatisations, and less opportunities for land by sea to solve problems and be responsible to their own population for the solutions adopted. It is therefore important that Norway continues to be clear to the World Bank and the IMF in its call for democratisation and for the abolition of conditionality requirements such as deregulation and privatisation. Civil society has been clearly identified and a driving force behind the need for coherence. This is a good example of the importance of supporting organisations working on North-South issues and raising critical and constructive debates, as the majority writes in the vote. We are not in the interests of cohesion policy, but this is a good start. Support for the establishment of the State in which it is weak and poorly anchored, support for an active civil society and for the development of industry and the construction of the private sector, including agriculture, is important. The Committee is aware of the need to support democratic institutions, including parliaments. In the Women's Communication, we said that it is important to support women parliamentarians. I have heard several examples of how parliaments are being overrun when negotiating agreements with donors or with the World Bank and the IMF. It means worse anchoring, and that means that there are no controls. An example is Afghanistan. Recently, in SV, we arranged a meeting with two tough, capable women parliamentarians who took the initiative for demonstrations against the family law and brought information about it to the rest of the world. So it wasn't a coincidence that it became known to us. They were clear in their message that it is essential for Parliament to have real power and influence. Parliament has 27 p.m. women and represent the people to a far greater extent than Karzai's administration does. Norway must ensure that Parliament is included in decisions, and the United States must do the same, they said. They also told us that women parliamentarians had fought to keep the Department of Women. For the time being, they have won that battle, but the ministry has no financial means, despite the fact that aid should also go to women. They asked for some of the assistance to be channelled through the Department of Women. This is how it will gain power and influence and ensure that the money actually benefits women. I am fully aware that it is no longer the Minister for Development who disposes of these funds, but he can pass these good advice on to the Government. The notification discusses capital flows, including illegal capital flows. This debate is highly topical but not new. The flow of money from colonial times up to our days has gone from south to north in the form of interest and repayments on loans, in the form that commodities are sold cheaply to the north, and in the form that transnational companies own resources in the south and serve themselves richly on it. The new thing is that the debate on illegal capital flows and tax havens has become clear on the international arena. I would like to commend the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Development who has the front line on the fight against tax havens. According to Eva Joly, the Norwegian government was the first to do so. Every year, the poorest countries lose billions because of tax evasion and tax competition. It is money that could have been spent on school, health and industrial development. So who's enriching? Both the political and the economic elite and the transnational companies do. This is much of the basis for corruption. Corruption had not gone on without places to hide the money. These include: therefore an offensive fight against tax havens is so important. In the long term, this work is being carried out in conjunction with efforts to increase the power of land navigation over its natural resources, to provide administrative regimes that made Norway rich, and to provide a political space for the adoption of laws and protection of weak industries and areas to be built up, as Norway and other countries have had the opportunity to do, some of the most important steps to lift people out of poverty and to decent lives. It is no longer possible to close the eyes of the greatest crisis in the world. Man-made climate change threatens tomorrow. The poorest are threatened today. No other matter is more urgent to do something about. If we don't solve the climate crisis, neither do the world the Millennium Goals. Not only must the world’s richest countries take the greatest responsibility for resolving the climate crisis by reducing CO2 emissions, but the world’s richest countries must also take the primary responsibility for enabling developing countries to adapt to the effects of climate change. Because when the world's poorest are exposed to drought, violent storms, floods and environmental pressures, this means that they have less resources left to create a better life for themselves and their children. When global warming changes the weather conditions on the Horn of Africa, it means that crops fail and people starve, or that women and young girls need to spend several hours collecting water. We in the rich countries must take the greatest responsibility for reducing climate emissions, developing renewable energy, find predictable mechanisms to finance technologies in countries that have the same right to a decent standard of living as we have, but without going the road to CO2 emissions – and not least to find a mechanism to ensure poor adaptability. The world needs to find solutions to the Copenhagen climate meeting. There is a need to find new ways of financing. An example is the anticipated proposal by the Minister of Finance to auction away part of the global climate allowances for this. The fight against climate change is both local and global. Before the death of Brazilian environmental defender Chico Mendes, he talked about which bands tied the local struggle to preserve the rainforest to a global struggle for social justice: «At first, I thought I was fighting to save rubber trees. Then I thought I was fighting to save the rain forest in the Amazon. Now I understand that I am fighting for humanity." Norway is on the verge of saving the rainforest. Forest activity is important for climate, biodiversity and the livelihood of indigenous people. It reduces poverty, whether in Brazil, Papua New Guinea or Africa. The cancellation of the debt following the shipping campaign was historic. If there's something I want to remember with joy, it's just this. There was a hurries up through the international debt cancellation movement when Development Minister Erik Solheim announced this debt cancellation, because then illegitimate debt came on the international agenda. This is something we in SV have fought for too long, so I am proud of what was done. It is not fair for today’s population in indebted countries to continue to pay the price of corrupt, reckless or politically motivated lending that has continued. The Committee commends the Minister for Development on the initiative of Norway vis-à-vis the World Bank and other countries. This work needs to be intensified. Debtslette provides more resources for important tasks, and it strengthens democracy by making it less bound by the World Bank, the IMF and other donors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2725	St.meld. No 13 on climate, conflict and capital in development policy are interesting readings. The challenge in dealing with the notification has been to understand how the assessment of the different themes is to be incorporated into the overall development policy. In order not to doubt this, it is wise that the suspension emphasises that the established principles and guidelines on rights-based, poverty-orientation, beneficiary orientation, national ownership, concentration, unbound assistance, relevance to international work-sharing and aid efficiency are established. In addition, it must be clear and unambiguous that the Storting determines that the UN’s Millennium Goals will lead Norwegian foreign policy. The Communication emphasises that state aid should be directed more towards areas where Norway has specific competence and that multilateral channels where Norway does not have specific competence should be used to a greater extent. The central party agrees that this can be an overall leadership, but let me stress the following: increasing the use of multilateral channels, which we fully support, demands that the efforts be followed up with active work in the governing bodies of the organisation, and that political leadership also engages in this. We think it is wise to recognise the following: there are few in practice, not to say very few areas where Norway has special competence in a global perspective. It's e.g. not in such a way that Norway has special competence in tropical rainforests. We equally choose – and rightly – to have a significant rate of rainforesting. The requirement of specific Norwegian competence must not prevent Norway from contributing bilaterally also in areas that are recognised as important internationally. The education field is one of these, an area in which the Stortinget believes Norway should have increased efforts. The representative Marit Nybakk pointed to a lucky project in Namibia. It was about fishing. That's where we have specific competence. We may also have specific competence in aquaculture development. We were part of that in Vietnam. That's where we were asked to be more involved in Namibia. Agriculture is an area where, in a global context, we may not have specific competence, but I think it is important that we also focus on it. I'm glad we're in St.meld. No 13 – at least as the Centre Party interprets it – has changed its view on this with food production. When we measured the distribution between different sectors in 1970, it was 30 pst. of Norwegian efforts aimed at food production. Today it's at 3 pst. We're in a global food crisis. I don't think we'll be able to deal with many of the problems we're facing if we don't enable the people of developing countries to feed themselves to a greater extent than today. We have to be able to take that challenge. But it will also have consequences for the thinking here on the mountain. I think we need to be involved in developing research to look at how we're going to exploit the limited areas that we have in the world today, in order to achieve sustainable development with even better conclusions. I think the message is interesting, as I have said. It's exciting, and I imagine there will be a lot of important debates in this area in this room in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2742	Initially, I would also like to thank Mr Højbräten for constructive processes in the Committee, and I would like to commend the Minister for the Environment and Development for presenting an interesting and thought-provoking communication. It provides a broad description of the framework conditions for development work and points out whether or not new policies, so at least policy areas that should be more closely integrated into Norwegian development policies. We should all get our eyes up so that development policy is something much more than assistance. This can make a valuable contribution to the debate on development policy in Norway. The debate may continue to look beyond the 1 pst target, and some are still hanging around in a narrow debate on whether or not assistance is working at all. However, the Communication is somewhat lingering in proposing concrete measures to follow up the policy contained in the Communication. Instead, it refers to the on-going processes and the forums for following up the themes in question. This applies, inter alia, to: important measures in agriculture and trade. Furthermore, the communication is likely to fail somewhat in terms of promoting a more holistic development policy. This requires action in other policy areas to ensure coherence. Policies implemented in other areas need to be adapted so that they do not weaken or undermine development policy. I see in the communication progress towards creating a greater political space for the Government in the field of aid policy. It is worth mentioning here that it has already replaced the country allocation in the aid budget with regional appropriations. This gives the Government greater freedom to redispatch aid between countries in a region, for example: in Africa. Furthermore, the Government provides more flexibility to provide humanitarian and development assistance in post-conflict areas, where it has been involved in peace processes. This isn't necessarily negative. However, I miss an emphasis on the technical assistance – and the Norwegian competence built up in this area over several years with assistance. I believe that we should avoid further politicisation of assistance. It may help to undermine the sound peer-reviews that should be used as a basis for all assistance. This may weaken the long-term assistance and the quality of assistance in general. Furthermore, we should avoid further politicisation and a rapidly changing Norwegian agenda related to development policy undermining the principle of local ownership for own development. Developing countries should themselves govern and own their development, not be governed by well-meaning donors in Norway and in other donor countries. In order for this to make sense, I believe that assistance should contribute to strengthening representative, inclusive and democratic processes in the recipient countries. I therefore agree that efforts in Norwegian aid should be stepped up in order to lay the foundations for more robust party systems and more vibrant democratic processes in the recipient countries. In order to ensure a broad political response to relatively high aid allocations in the future, it is important to be able to demonstrate efficiency, credibility and concrete results. The Left therefore believes that the appropriations for quality assurance and evaluation should be increased – based on a low proportion of the aid budget today. We spend 26 billion dollars in aid this year. It has had a formidable growth over many years, and this requires that we have proper control of the use of these means. More specifically, I believe that increased funds should be used for independent quality assurance and evaluation. The objective should be to identify errors and deficiencies related to ongoing and final assistance projects, and this information should be more systematically included in the decision-making basis for future assistance. Furthermore, the appropriations should be used to further develop new methods of evaluation and quality assurance, both at national level and in cooperation with other donor countries. In addition, beneficiaries of the assistance should be more closely involved in the evaluations. They're the ones who have to live with the results of the projects, and they know best if they're working or not. I appreciate the ability and will for innovation in development policy. Nevertheless, I believe that the UN's Millennium Goals should remain a guide to Norwegian aid. Among these objectives, I believe that Norway’s contribution to promoting education and health should be strengthened. This is fundamental in a country. More specifically, there should be a strong and clear focus on women, children, young people and vulnerable groups, including sexual and reproductive health and HIV prevention. In addition, the climate crisis must not be downgraded in relation to developing countries. Norway has a significant responsibility here. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to stress that the rainforest effort should not be at the expense of following up on the Government's strategy for environmental development cooperation. It is important to follow up both parts, and therefore one should not become a balancing item for the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2772	Let me thank the Stortinget for a good debate and a good attitude. As I see it, the Government has come in agreement with all the main lines of what we presented to the Stortinget, while the Stortinget has made nuances and additions on some and important points. That's how it should be in the ratio of government to magnification. However, I do not want to hide the fact that I am particularly pleased that two fundamental points in the Government's development policy have received such broad support in the Stortinget. One is to turn the debate away from relatively small shades of Norwegian aid and into the large, wide-ranging conditions of power in the world that promote or inhibit development. Norwegian assistance is 4 pst. of the world’s assistance. World aid is a tiny small flow of capital compared to very many other capital flows. It is therefore essential that we use the assistance strategically to influence world development, and not see it perfecting individual elements of Norwegian aid as the main objective of world development. The fact that the three k's that we have emphasised in the communication – capital, conflict and climate – have gained such broad support is very important. I could add three other k's that lie as underlying themes – women, anti-corruption and competences. Then I am also very happy that we have had a revolution in the whole development debate, which was also underlined by Siri A. Meling from the Right – away from the focus on intentions. The intentions of the first day of assistance have been good, but no other human activity is measured by its intentions. It is always measured on results. Therefore, the Government has also emphasised – but it is not always easy to measure – that there should be a continuous evaluation and measurement of results. As it says in the writing: ‘On the fruits the tree shall be known.’ It is on the results provided by the aid, it must be measured and one must criticize or be satisfied. I was in the Nuba Mountains, central to Sudan last week. There people had two questions that they asked, and they go right into the debate here. One was: Will peace continue – does it make sense to rebuild the school because there will be peace? And the other thing was, when is the rain coming? That issue is related to climate change. There were hundreds of students in the classes. The teachers had not been paid in the last year. Yet, impressively, it was education, and even more impressive, it was that the students were sitting quietly in a way that they don't do where my children go to school. So education took place, but education can't take place if there's no peace, and if people can't take care of themselves as a result of climate change changing agriculture. Then the very heart of the message is illustrated, namely that climate, capital and conflict are underlying themes in everything we are doing. I won't say much about conflict. There is no disagreement in the United Kingdom about Sudan, Afghanistan and Palestine – at least not Sudan and Afghanistan – as the central beneficiary country of Norwegian aid. It is justified solely by the dimension of the conflict. We would not have chosen those countries if we had settled down with the World Map and chosen the least corrupt, simplest areas to operate in, regardless of whether we're going to spend the money on peace building there. If you add Liberia, Burundi, Sri Lanka and Nepal, you have a large share of the main Norwegian foreign policy commitments in countries where conflicts are a major issue. Climate change does not require much time to justify it in this assembly. A total increase – with the exception of the Progress Party, but not Höglund, perhaps Höglund is more in agreement with us others, I do not know – acknowledges that climate is a fundamental prerequisite for development policy and one of the major challenges of our time. Let me stress that all the funds used in this area have been additional and are going to be additional. This is fully demonstrated by the fact that 14 days ago I was invited to the African Union Environment Ministerial Meeting to talk about Norwegian climate finance proposals and the Norwegian forest project. There's no indication there that this shouldn't be additional, as they measure it – so let's just put it aside. What Norway has done in this area is quite additional, entirely in line with all the rules and something that internationally only arouses positive responses. Capital, which is the third main theme: Yes, I agree with Høglund and others that protectionism is a major problem for developing countries, and that intra-Africa trade is at an absolute minimum level. I have strongly advocated – and also feel that the debate in Stortinget reflects it more – that private investment and the capital transfer that lies there should be recognised as an important part of development policy and not be seen primarily as a problem. The flow of capital from developing countries is a drain of money from the poor into tax havens. I would like to congratulate Eva Joly, who has now been elected to the European Parliament. It provides a great opportunity to combine her gigantic international standing in this area with Norwegian recordings. The next week, the setting from the so-called capital sample is presented. I can already announce that there are going to be strong issues about what it says about how much money is being taken out of the poorest countries in terms of capital migration into the tax havens. I am also pleased with the proposal that the Stortinget has taken up in this area, which is in line with what I have been talking about in the last year, namely to find out how the State pension fund – abroad can get an opening for more investment in developing countries. It is very good that the government asks to look further at this. Let me finally comment on other things that have emerged in the debate. I agree with Mr Höglund that the Nordic position in the UN should be used more strongly. I also agree with my Swedish colleague Gunilla Carlsson that we should use that position to have a stronger pressure on the UN organisations. The latest figures presented show that Norway alone is the third largest contributor to the UN’s development and humanitarian efforts – that is, only alone. If we add together all the Nordic countries – I do not know if the United States is larger than the Nordic countries in total – then the Nordic countries together are likely to be the largest contributor. We should use this more strongly to influence the policies of these organisations. I would like to have dialogue with Sweden and others to get it better. Then the case-rapporteur was Højbräten and others involved in this with global benefits. Let me point out there that the most important building of global goods is the one that is going on at national level. When Afghanistan contributes to security in Afghanistan, it has an impact on global security. It matters to us in terms of terrorism. If an African country contributes to the protection of its country from infectious diseases, it is also beneficial for global good, because it prevents the spread of disease to us. But then there is also a component of global effort to do this, for example. this work is carried out in a lot of ways in terms of health, through the World Health Organisation, and in terms of safety, through many other organisations. I think we have a considerable job to do to look at what it is that will naturally fall under aid, and what should come under other budget chapters, and the relationship between them. But if you are to get a lot of money for what will be globally recognised as global common resources, most of it will happen within national budgets in individual countries and will therefore naturally be aid, and then there will be individual components that will naturally not be. Then we'll look at it and figure it out more thoroughly in the future. Let me also comment on the so-called preferential debate. Focusing on Norwegian preference is, of course, the same as emphasising what is required from the poorest countries. That's not what we had to agree on ourselves is Norwegian preference, which means something. At the moment we have some so-called Norwegian advantage, which we must have a marketing agency to travel around the world and impress and have an advertising campaign to tell you that this is Norwegian preference, we can just forget it. Norwegian preference is the theme where there is a demand for Norway’s specific competence. The obvious theme is women's issues, on which Marit Nybakk was involved. We don't have to market it for people to know that Norway and the Nordic countries have a particular competence on women's issues. Another equally obvious area is energy, whether it's good oil management, hydropower or eventually actually become solar. There are also areas where it is globally recognised that Norway has something to do with it in particular. So when we talk about advantage, it's identical to demand management, because it's only where developing countries themselves see themselves earned with this special competence, that we need to focus on it. It is quite in line with the so-called Paris agenda that has now been replaced by the so-called Accra agenda, namely that each country should do what they are particularly good at, so that in the same country ten different bilateral education programmes are avoided, which do not give it anything significant. Finally, I just want to say: I support emphasis on education, which has been done by several, and which is also in the setting. But we just have to be aware of what that actually means. Again in South Sudan last week, they desperately wanted more money for education. But the only realistic way to do this is either through voluntary organisations or through the World Bank and the United Nations system, which have a ground control system that ensures that the money is misused.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2812	The report says this about the Millennium Goals: in sub-Saharan Africa, there is little or no progress to be traced. That's often the way we get it, because when you look at these indicators in relation to the individual thousand-year targets, Africa is getting bad. But Africa also started at a very low level. Isn't that how we talk Africa down in some contexts? In order for Africa to come up and meet the targets, they had to have a growth or a development that had historically surpassed all the countries around the world had experienced earlier. This is about how attractive we make Africa, and how we look at Africa's development. Will the Council of State comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2817	I'll give Morten Høglund the honor to take up a very central point. Almost all of Africa's attention is around the negative. That is why last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs organized a conference on Africa's success stories. There are many success stories, but no Norwegian or almost international media send someone to cover those success stories. These are the crises covered, and Africa is an incredibly varied continent. Just as little as Norway and Moldova can be said to be the same, or as Finland and Ukraine are the same, there is one consistent response to the future in Africa. It's moving forward fast a lot of places. However, it is clear that the major areas of crisis such as Sudan and Congo with neighbouring countries, which are stuck in war and conflict, are the ones that really reduce the problems. It simply won't be education and health if people are raped by armed gangs almost every week.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2822	Both the call for proposals and the policy of the Council of State have met with criticism of the lack of focus in the design and implementation of development and assistance policies. As I mentioned in my article, the Government has among other things. has chosen to give priority to major regional appropriations over individual countries. The distinction between the main co-operation countries and other co-operation countries has been removed and climate and rainforest measures have been included in the aid budget. The administrative room for action and flexibility in the use of funds have increased. At the same time, the Council of State has met with criticism that Norway is now spreading too many themes and too many countries, and that it is taking a little too many initiatives that will not necessarily be followed up. Does the Council of State see any sign of a risk of losing focus and thereby weakening the long-term and stability of key areas of Norwegian development policy? Does the Council of State consider this at all a relevant criticism?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2829	We've concentrated on some specific areas, and that's where the appropriations have also been drawn up during this period. So it's been a clear focus. I haven't stressed that we're just going to stick to any countries. The reason for this is that if we cut out half of the countries that got the least money from Norway, it would be relatively small to cut out money. What would typically be cut out is a small mission project in Ecuador or a Norwegian volunteer organisation that, through special contact somewhere, has done something reasonable. So it would be little to pick up that kind of concentration. Then you can cut out some countries, of course, but then I would like to invite the Stortinget to debate on which countries it should be. We've stepped down the stairs in Bangladesh. It's just met with criticism, no favor for it. A country that many thought we should cut out is Madagascar. This was started under the previous government, under the Christian People's Party. I think it has been important that our government has continued its efforts in Madagascar, even though we might not have started in Madagascar, if it was up to us. The reason for this is that a country like Madagascar must be able to anticipate planning from the Norwegian side, and now we may also be able to contribute to the conflict that it is experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2836	Governments focused on performance evaluation and verification. The Committee does. In this setting, there are unanimous comments which, in a very strong order, say that the possibilities of control of the Storting in the area of assistance have been weakened,'substantially weakened,' says a joint committee. It is also said that it is difficult to see from the budget chapters and items how much is actually planned for the different countries, difficult, not to say impossible, to get clarity on how much total is allocated to the different areas of activity. It is also said that the Government has a responsibility to facilitate that the Stortinget and the Supervisory Board, the National Audit Office, can carry out their control of these 26–27 billion kroner that we grant in development aid. What does the Council of State intend to do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2841	I have of course noticed this clear wish and clear leadership from Stortinget. It is also a topic that has been raised in previous debates in the context of presentations we have had on development policy. When it has not done enough in that area until now, it is not an easy matter to create a budgetary structure that does this. But with the clear leadership given here, of course, we are going to come back to the Storting with proposals on how we can improve the budgetary structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2846	I will follow up a bit on the continuation of the representative Højbråten mentioned. I mentioned in my speech that it is important to be able to show effectiveness and concrete results in order to ensure a broad political breakdown of relatively high aid allocations in the future. This has to do with credibility. So we spend about NOK 26 billion on aid, and it's had a formidable growth in recent years. This requires that we have proper control of the use of these means. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what he has done specifically to promote quality assurance of assistance? Is he satisfied with today's level of appropriations for such quality assurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2853	Yes, without boasting too much – it is never well received – I would say that there has been a significant cultural revolution under the red-green government in this particular area by consistently stressing that it is the results that have to count, and that results have to be measured. So it's true that it's not always easy to measure results. You can, for example: likely to have received a country, let's say 1 pst. higher gross domestic product as a result of assistance, but it will never be raised above any doubt. It is easy to measure results at project level, on individual measures, but more difficult to measure the overall impact on the development of a country. We have launched Norad with a significant strengthening of the evaluation. A number of evaluation reports – an overall report on Zambia, for example, and individual reports in key areas – have been published to strengthen the sustained focus on results and to measure results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2862	Let me first thank the Council of State for the obligatory opinion he gave on the follow-up to the monitoring possibilities for Stortinget. Then I want to go back to a question that the Council of State had in mind, namely how to get an investment mechanism based on part of the Norwegian oil fund in poor countries. This is a case that has a broad connection here in Stortinget – it shows the setting. At the same time, the proposal to ask the Government to come back to this point does not have the consent of a majority in the vote. From what the Council of State now said, that he was very pleased with what was done in this field, I have to ask, is it such that the Council of State can now assure the Government that there will be a proposal on this in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2869	What I can assure you is what I said we should investigate and see how this is possible. That's also what the Minister of Finance said earlier that she wants to do. She has also presented a concrete proposal – now this is her responsibility and not my formal responsibility – on the investment mechanism for green action and environmentally friendly industry. Then we'll look at the possibilities of making similar arrangements for developing countries. This is also what World Bank President Bob Zoellick has called for, which is an important part of the international debate, and which many see it as reasonable for Norway to do. That's the Norwegian population's pension money we're talking about, which we can only deal with with with with the utmost seriousness and seriousness. We have to look at how this can be done in a reasonable way, and then maybe come back to the Storing after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2875	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2878	I will first join the representative Nybakks and the representative Valle's emphasis on how important it is for the Government to focus on equality and women in development and foreign policy. Active work on women's repressive social mechanisms is crucial in the fight against poverty and underdevelopment. It is incredibly important that women and equality continue to be one of our foremost priority areas of development policy, and that Norway undertakes that we continue to dry where other tens, and be the voice of oppressed women internationally. It is particularly important to focus on this now in the light of the financial crisis. You can get the impression that there are white Western bank directors who are now suffering most from the financial crisis. It's not! Oxfam presented a report just before the G20 meeting, which shows how women in the poorest parts of the world are hit hardest by the consequences of the financial crisis. Many women are now forced into prostitution because they themselves, husbands or other family members lose their jobs. They become the economic losers and end up in line even further. What Oxfam shows is that the financial crisis and its consequences now threaten to break down many of the progress that has been made in promoting women’s rights in developing countries over the last 15 to 20 years – and this is serious. This is a very serious consequence of the financial crisis, which unfortunately does not receive as much attention as the white Western bank managers. Norway has to commit itself to taking a leading role here. We must discourage the weakening of the progress made in strengthening the position of women. The message of development is so incredibly important because it draws up the major and important contexts of development policy, that development policy and the fight against poverty are more than aid. The overall and coherent use of several instruments is required to achieve development in poor countries. The communication draws attention to the fact that, in a globalised world, the relationship between developments in poor countries and other global issues is becoming increasingly evident. In this picture, we must not forget that it is not just countries that are actors to create development. It records the development message. It has just been addressed by the Stortinget in another communication, on corporate social responsibility, which points to these things, that in a complex world, different means of eradicating poverty need to be used, and different actors need to contribute. Kofi Annan said that it is a utopian belief that poverty can be combated without, for example. The contribution of industry — all the time in which industry operates globally and in many cases are as big economic actors as the state. Business must therefore be part of the solution for the development of poor countries and to address the major global challenges. Therefore, it is also important to see the Communication on societal responsibilities and the Communication on development in the context. It will also have a positive impact on Norway’s development contribution to follow-up on societal responses. Earlier today, the Stortinget addressed the communication on the activities of the State pension fund – Foreign, including the revision of the ethical guidelines. SPU is another example of an important development instrument, but is very rarely mentioned in the debate on development policy. I have not slept in the office and reported to the wrong debate today, but I say this in this debate because it can be said here. These things are definitely interrelated. As manager of the fund, Norway’s Bank currently has shares in more than 3,500 companies worldwide. These companies take decisions that are crucial to the evolution of the world. Those decisions affect human rights, employee rights, the environment and climate. SPU is now the joint owner of so many companies that they collectively affect the economic development of the world. It gives Norway the power to create a business development with a more socially responsible perspective, and with power comes responsibility and great opportunities. Of course, the Norwegian pension fund cannot save the world alone, but it can be one of several good tools to contribute positively. It is therefore also interesting to see that the Progress Party, which is constantly talking about aid alone not solving the development challenges, is not interested in seeing that an extension of ownership priorities and guidelines for the SPU can actually ensure that we both make money for pensions and help solve the challenges of the future by investing responsibly in companies that make the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2899	An increasing number of questions are now asking about the significance of the assistance for the various countries that have over the years received gifts of money from so-called rich or industrialised countries. Has the aid really had a positive effect in addition to the fact that many people may have had a better conscience by sharing some of their wealth? I am pleased that the passive Norwegian aid policy that has been pursued is now increasingly being put on a critical searchlight, where neither demands have been made on the recipients nor the necessary control of the funds. What has overshadowed the objective of Norwegian aid over many years is the amount of money and the need to increase it every year. The few have cared about what the money has gone to, and whether they have at all had any significance for the recipients. A strongly growing Norwegian aid industry has often set the stage, and unfortunately the majority of the political environment has not been able to resist the pressure from them. The aid industry must not be taken into account to determine how Norwegian policy is to be developed in this area. Nor should it be the one-sided focus on the percentage of GNI that must be decisive. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is the results of the assistance, if the assistance has a positive impact, which is most important, and we are therefore taking a strong distance from the ‘goodness regime’ which has shaped Norwegian policy in this area and has in many cases made the situation worse. Good intentions alone do not get people out of poverty, and we must recognise that the Norwegian aid and development model has also undermined economic growth, contributed to increased corruption and hindered necessary development. We must listen to the internationally recognised researchers and read them after and after many reports that state that there is no link between aid and economic growth in developing countries. Nor should we ignore the reports that state that aid in certain cases has contributed to increasing conflicts between social groups in the recipient countries, thereby adversely affecting the development of democracy in many places. It is important to stress that developing countries themselves have the primary responsibility for their own development, and that in many countries policies are in line with economic growth and poverty reduction targets. It is therefore essential that the aid policy towards these countries does not stimulate a trend in which these negative features persist. We would point out that the assistance provided should focus in particular on education, health, business development and microcredit, and that the appropriations should be subject to strict anti-corruption and performance reporting requirements. To stimulate economic growth, increased trade and prosperity development, protectionism must be countered by both building up customs barriers between countries and removing other bureaucratic barriers to trade. Unfortunately, food protectionism means that poor people need to spend a greater share of their income on food, and there are now many examples of the fact that the people of countries where there is a self-sufficiency strategy are still starving from the table. Reports claim that 3 million people in Kenya are facing a food crisis at the same time as maize worth 14 million. kr has been sold on a black exchange to Sudan. Nevertheless, half of Norwegian assistance to the country goes directly to the authorities responsible for this. Also, the government's prestigious rain forest project now seems to face major challenges. A report that was published on Friday warns that conflict and corruption can be the result of the big effort. The report, prepared by the International Institute for Environment and Development, warns the Norwegian Government against being too naive in its allocation of rain forest resources. It is unlikely that rainforest money actually contributes to forest conservation as long as the rules and framework for this type of assistance are not better, says the report. I look up in the VG last Friday that the Minister for the Environment and Development has taken note of this, and I would ask him to explain what he intends to do in order not to include this project in the range of failed Norwegian aid projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2925	To begin with, I would like to make a general comment: I think it is commendable that both the notification and the vote describe the complexity of the possibilities for creating developments and the contributions that Norway can make in this context, and the dependence on international framework conditions, geopolitical changes and the need for coherence in policy-making and conflicting interests at national and international level. I believe that such openness and discussion here can achieve a realism in the tasks we face, and not give a simplified idea of measures or results measurement. I will also here strike a blow for the good will to share our prosperity. I'm not going to undermine the three k's in the government's message, but I want to use most of my post to focus on democracy development and the mobilisation of elected representatives. It points out that the dominant image globally is that countries with democratic systems have the best results both in terms of economic and social development, not to mention when it comes to safeguarding fundamental freedoms and rights. Democracy is the very basis for national ownership of a country’s development. It's a goal in itself. In development aid, we have always heard about the need to strengthen civil society and support non-governmental organisations, but rarely has there been any emphasis on elected political bodies and parliaments and the need to involve them more strongly in the implementation of aid policy. It provides opportunities for wider ownership of development, better public participation and is the source of debate and transparency – yes, in short, elected bodies are a crucial part of democracy and good governance. So here I mean we're on safe ground when we push. But it just goes beyond representation. Today, the design and implementation of assistance in the dialogue between government and administrative apparatus on the recipient and donor side is taking place. Responsibility for national implementation goes from government to government, without involving national parliaments in the recipient country. I am therefore pleased that the Committee believes that it must be a premise for the assistance that Parliament in the country of destination is involved in the political debate on the country's development objectives, the prioritisation of means of assistance and the control of the Governments' use of funds. When an increase in the amount of budgetary support is sought, the need for popular participation is further reinforced. Norway must therefore be an exponent of stronger parliamentary involvement, but this requires that we be willing to strengthen Parliament's capacity in the recipient countries – both in terms of knowledge and resources. In a unanimous opinion of the Council of Europe now in spring on the mobilisation of parliaments both in Africa and in Europe for Africa's development, it was recommended to earmark assistance to strengthen parliamentary participation in the planning and control of aid. However, representative parliaments require democracies with active political parties. Therefore, there is a need to support direct cooperation between Norwegian political parties and their sister parties in developing countries. Here I would like to ask the Progress Party: why should other non-governmental organisations be responsible for the transfer of knowledge between political parties? In this I know a bit of the scepticism that I feel has been in involving political parties in the development of good governance in our developing countries. Such cooperation must be based on the individual experience and competence of the parties and assessed individually. I am pleased that the Committee believes that there should be no requirement for cross-political participation or for more parties to the projects. Political parties are also crucial elements of democracy and good governance. Employment, decent employment and the protection of workers' rights are key values in the development of an economically and socially equitable society. This perspective must have an important place in aid policy. I want to commend the Government's new strategy to strengthen employee rights globally, where the ILO is the main body. This concerns, among other things: on the fight against child labour, on equality and women's rights in the labour market, on strengthening the social partners and cooperation between them. Development policy must focus on decent working life. But not just here, you have to do it in trade policy and foreign policy in general. We have the opportunity to repeat this message in the discussion of the vote on Norwegian foreign policy until Friday. There is considerable social and political capital in the Norwegian/Nordic model in the face of globalisation and aid for development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2948	As one of the richest countries in the world, it is only fair and reasonable that Norway also begs for other countries to develop. We have a long and in my view a good tradition of providing assistance to developing countries while being an important supporter of the UN and other international organisations. The Committee's position shows that Norway will continue to be an important aid operator in the future. I am pleased with the broad support given to the Government by the Committee. There is also broad agreement that assistance is not enough to develop. Most people who have spoken today have suggested that we need a wide range of nutrition and a broad range of tools to achieve the goal of a fairer value. Development policy is much more than assistance. I think it is good for the debate that there is so much agreement about this in this Chamber. It has long been a political goal of 1 pst. our national income shall be granted assistance. This goal has now reached us for the first time, and it is very good. The goal has been decisive to get the rewards in this area. How much money Norway and other countries are willing to spend on assistance is crucial. Nevertheless, we must not be so preoccupied with the quantity that we forget about the quality. Therefore, Norwegian aid needs to be measured, not just according to the amount of money that Stortinget allows each year, but on the impact of these funds. Good control systems and evaluation of money use are therefore very important. It is also important to have a wide and lively debate on what actions work and what actions do not work. The annual performance reports of NORAD are important. It is important that these reports are open and honest, and that lessons are learned from measures that do not work or have little effect. It is good for a Joint Committee to clarify the need for independent evaluation and research. It's important that the government follows up at this point. It is also important that there are no different policies in any other part. Getting a more coherent policy is therefore important. An annual report on how different policy areas affect developments in poor countries is therefore a good initiative by the Government. Such reporting will increase the focus and debate on what actions contribute to development and what may hinder development. In line with the idea of making the most efficient and targeted use of resources, it is right to focus more on those tasks where Norway has specific skills and knowledge, while being an active contributor to the multinational organisations where Norway does not have specific competences that will provide added value. In this way, we not only encourage these organisations to increase their impact on the economy, but also encourage fewer actors and improve international coordination in the various countries. Norway has specific competence in several areas. The transfer of competence, knowledge and technology may in some cases be as important as the transfer of heads and ears. Several members of the Committee have had the positive experience of fisheries cooperation presented by the Committee in Namibia. For relatively cheap money, Norway has contributed to the development of a national fisheries policy and a national fisheries policy in Namibia. This has resulted in important revenues for the country, while at the same time contributing to more sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources outside Namibia. Another area in which Norway has special competence is within energy. We have both a knowledge of how to produce and not least a knowledge of how to manage energy resources in a way that both takes into account the environment and leads to openness in the use of income and a reasonable distribution of income among residents. Here we can transfer knowledge that can far exceed the value in heads and ears. The objective of development policy is to contribute to the success of several countries. Therefore, aid to industrial development and own income is crucial. Management of natural resources is therefore important, and Norway has specific competences. At the same time, I agree with the Council when he says that we are not here in the country to define what kind of knowledge we should contribute to, but the demand from the recipient countries. It's an important principle. When I'm a big fan of Norway's being a great aid actor, it's not just because I think we have a moral responsibility to be. I also believe that in this country we have clear benefits. The fight against nudity and poverty is also the fight against war and terrorism, against large refugee traumas and against devastation and climate change. Less poverty will provide a more secure value that we in Norway too will benefit from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2967	Nearly one billion people are starving. It's about every six people living on Earth. The hunger causes malnourished mothers to give birth to malnourished children. Food is a fundamental human right that millions of people are denied every day despite the fact that the world is currently producing enough food. Ability for self-help and independence presupposes that people can eat saturated. Climate change reinforces unfairness. The Earth is getting warmer, and the projections for the future are serious. All over the world, floods, extreme weather and disease will increase. Agriculture lives with and from the climate. Those exposed to drought will be hit even harder in the future. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change expects African agriculture to deteriorate because temperature increases make large agricultural areas unfit for food production. I am pleased that Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck says that he will work to ensure that food and food production becomes an important topic at the international climate conference in Copenhagen in December. Something else would be a betrayal of both climate and world hunger. Agricultural aid needs to be re-increased. We need agricultural assistance that can provide robust agriculture with a property right that is spread over the many hands, and independence to operate ecologically soundly. Still the world's farmers produce enough food for everyone, but something's wrong with the way we distribute the food. Today it is estimated that almost half of those who starve are food producers. Continuing what's now, it's also uncertain whether the world is able to produce enough food for everyone, sail if we distribute it fairly. The race if the food earth is running. For many years, most people thought that commodity prices on food would just sink. Last year food prices rose sharply. Prices have now fallen and stabilised, but the analysts believe that prices will rise in the coming years. It is due to climate change and increased use of food for biofuels. Development has made arable land an investment object. Investors from Saudi Arabia rent land in Ethiopia to produce rice, oats and wheat. All production is exported to Saudi Arabia and investors are tax-free. At the same time, the World Food Programme provides food aid to Ethiopia. China has purchased large areas of Congo to produce biofuels of palm oil. South Korea and the United Arab Emirates have made huge purchases in Sudan, while many die of hunger in the country they are going to fetch their food from. By 2050 it is assumed that there will be 2.4 billion more people on earth than today. In India and China, more meat is eaten, and the demand for food is increasing fastest here. Both countries have limited opportunities to expand their productive area. However, areas are available in sub-Saharan Africa and South and Central America. Arable land must be kept in all countries. It is contrary to any joint thinking and common sense to lay down arable land in Norway or elsewhere when the need for soil for food production will increase dramatically. If we are to reduce hunger, the world's food policy needs to change, and that involves a whole new policy in the WTO. The starting point must be that all countries have both the right and the duty to feed their own people. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to establish trade rules distinguishing between food production for export and food production intended to cover national consumption. We have to stop the evolution we see, where full food is exported to animal feed or fuel in the western world from countries where the population needs food. It is as obvious that export subsidies must be prohibited because Western subsidised goods often compete with local production. Foreign investors and multinational companies cannot continue a cynical trade in food as if they were soon to be one billion hungry. The climate and fair distribution of food and food security must also become a critical part of the WTO agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e2990	Education is a premise for all development. Education is a prerequisite for work on health, democratisation and equality. That is why this government strongly focuses on training in aid. There has been a dramatic increase in educational assistance spending from 2004 to today. In 2000, the UN adopted eight thousand-year targets for poverty reduction. The Millennium Goals shall be met in 2015. Objective No 2 is education. It is the goal of giving all children, both boys and girls, the opportunity to complete primary education. This is defined as a minimum of five years. Training a child is an investment in the future, both for individuals and for society as a whole. Education provides better quality of life, better opportunity to get a job and to manage yourself in life. Education is an important tool for child labour. Education provides a safer and meaningful everyday life for children who have experienced or suffer from war and conflict. Education gives hope for the future and is important for the development of democracy in a country. The Millennium Goals are difficult to achieve, but there has been a great deal of effort, and we can achieve the objectives of education if all countries contribute and rate. The most difficult areas to target are sub-Saharan Africa and Western Asia. In the year 2000, 83 pst began. by all the kids in the world at school. In 2006 it was 90 pst. of all children who started school. It's useful to bet. It is necessary to focus strongly on the quality of training, to ensure that children can safely get to and from school and to invest in solid, good buildings that can withstand both weather and war conditions. Investing in the skills of teachers and the presence of these teachers are necessary to bet on a good education for all. The kids must be allowed to go to school. There are many ways Norway is funding educational assistance. Norway is among the 10 largest bilateral contributors to education. Norway has a particular focus on education in vulnerable countries and conflict areas. The government has increased this kind of assistance from 269 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 327 million. kr in 2008. A further increase in the coming year is expected. Norway is one of the main contributors in Afghanistan, Nepal and Sudan. In Nepal, Norway supports the National Primary Education Programme, which covers the entire school system from primary to secondary education, including vocational education. I am proud that Norway is the most sovereign donor to UNICEF's work on basic education and equality. More than half of the UNICEF budget contributes to Norway. In 2008, UNICEF provided basic training to 3 million children in disaster areas. SV will work for a continued commitment to education-oriented assistance. Our new work programme states: ‘Education is a premise for all other developments.’ It is still the case that more than 75 million children are without an offer of basic education. It is also important to invest in higher education, research and technological development at the premises of the poorest countries. This is a prerequisite for development and poverty reduction. SV will continue to work towards a high priority for educational assistance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3018	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3021	The representative Bjørnstad asked a direct question to the Progress Party. This was the system of Norwegian parties to provide democratic assistance and why other organisations should handle it. I mentioned as an example that others can also have competence in this area. It is not our job to exclude Norwegian parties, but it should not be that any organisation and agency in Norway should be on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' recipient list for assistance and money. It seems like we're all going in there. The National Audit Office is now also an important piece. The majority notes that it is ‘very concerned that professional resources in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are made available to Norwegian parties’. As I read it, it means that there is not necessarily a high level of competence in all parties in this field, you have to transfer skills to give you skills. Maybe there are other actors who possess this competence? It would have been easier for them to practice this. But of course, if, for example. The working party is very good at this, so I'd like to do it for us. But let's not now make a new rigid arrangement in this area. Then I have a little visit to the representative of the Skjellaa, who, if I understood correctly, said we have to stop the cynical trade in food. This went well on the multinational companies. I understand what's said, but what's the alternative to dealing with food?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3030	Our contact with developing countries is far more than assistance. For this reason, the objectives of development policy can also be promoted in a number of other areas. In addition to public aid transfers, it is important to stimulate private investment that generates economic growth, technology transfer, skills development and, of course, jobs. In its opinion, the Committee endorses the proposal for a new development fund for poor countries launched last autumn in the report of the so-called Development Committee, chaired by Gunstein Instefjord. This proposal consists of the establishment – apart from the aid budget – of an investment fund based on the management of part of the State Pension Fund – abroad. This idea has been thoroughly explored by Norfund in a comprehensive report. Norfund has also brought the matter before the Ministry of Finance. In St.meld. No 13, on development policy, unfortunately this proposal is overlooked with just a few sentences. Reference is made to the Ministry of Finance’s communication on the activities of the State Pension Fund — Foreign, but when the notification came, the proposal was only pushed forward. That is why I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously sees the establishment of such an investment programme as just from an ethical point of view. Then it just remains to follow up what is ethically right, with political action. That is what the Christian People's Party is doing when we now propose that the Storting should ask the Government to set up such a development program. Together with the Progress Party and the Left, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal that the Government be asked to investigate – not just assess – and submit a proposal for the creation of its own investment fund or programme with an investment framework of approximately DKK 10 billion for the promotion of economic development in poor countries in sub-Saharan Africa and in south- and south-east Asia. I repeat the most important thing in my post: it is positive that the Government will look at it and assess it, but the important thing is that they submit a proposal for such a development fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3046	At the bottom of the debate, I would like to comment on a few things. It has been repeated almost to the boring fact that development policy is more than aid. There is a broad consensus in this room. I am glad that we have had a debate that has focused so much on all the different elements that can be involved and create development. It's about fighting poverty. It's actually a matter of life or death for millions of people around the world, and that's something we can do with. Listening to some speakers in the room today may seem like some teams are busy hunting with vacuum cleaners across international media and other arenas to find everything that is critical of assistance, anything that has failed, magnifying it and using it in a propaganda against aid. The thing is that very much assistance actually succeeds. This also applies to Norwegian aid. We're going to have a critical assessment of what's not succeeding. We're going to learn from the mistakes we're making, and we're going to knock hard on abuse. I am pleased with the zero tolerance that the Government has marked in relation to, for example, corruption, but Norwegian education assistance in Afghanistan is successful. We help girls to get education and thus completely new opportunities to participate in social life and to participate in and support the development of that nation. Microcredit gives the poor a fresh start in Bangladesh, thanks to Norwegian assistance, and it is such that aid for tax collection in Zambia actually leads to Zambia being given increased state revenues and opportunities to build its society. To take an example that is close to my heart, it was said here that if you were for help, you had a good heart. A little ironic, I think, but I don't mind being characterized that way, I. It's actually a profoundly serious commitment that's about respect for human dignity, equality and the fight for life. Thanks, among others, to: Norwegian assistance has saved the lives of 3.4 million children in the course of the years it has existed, GAVI, the Global Vaccine Fund. The financial crisis is at risk of 2.8 million new children losing their lives by 2015, but the good news is that there is something to do with it, and assistance is an important prerequisite for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3059	At any time of the night, a vote shall be taken and a vote shall first be taken on the vote of the Financial Committee to the effect that the vote is taken. No 20, on Statens pensionfond – Abroad. There is a proposal from the Christian People's Party, about which the Christian People's Party stands alone. It is a proposal to ask the Government to investigate and propose the creation of an investment fund of DKK 10 billion. In this setting, which will then be voted over a few minutes later – or maybe just a few seconds later – it is that the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Left are behind a similar proposal. In any case, this proposal will be voted down twice. At the same time, in this position, a unanimous committee asks the Government to grant such a fund, with a positive angle. So the whole committee is actually in favour of such a fund. In the Financial Committee, the parties of government plus the Left and Christian People's Party are asking for the same thing. So there are some parties that don't fully cooperate across committee boundaries. It doesn't matter. My appeal to the Christian People's Party is, in fact, to redefine that proposal for a transmission proposal, for the reason that a unanimous foreign committee and a solid majority of the Finance Committee are asking the Government to grant such a fund, with a positive sign. We should all work together to get such a fund. Let me also, since I have the word, say to Waksdal, as I understood had very critical remarks about this with state-aid, I think it was Kenya: I want to warn you that at any time you criticize state-aid. In fact, a 2006 multi-donor evaluation concludes that budget support can be an effective, efficient and sustainable method to support national strategies for poverty reduction and development. Among other things, Mozambique and Uganda are mentioned. This is a country that has been up in aid debates here on the house earlier. So it shows that it's effective. I would also like to stress that it may be important to ensure that welfare benefits are part of public spending and not aid projects on the side of the public sector. This is also a debate that we have in connection with EEA funds. Then, of course, it is important that conditions be imposed, including: the nature of the development policy pursued by a country. That is why Zimbabwe has not received state aid for quite many years either. I would also like, as the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad and others did, to point out in this context the importance of parliaments, that they are becoming more involved in the aid processes. Of course, this is particularly important in the case of state aid or budget support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3070	I take the floor again because Morten Höglund challenged me to respond to what the option of the Center Party was to what I had called a cynical trade in food that the multinational companies run. I am glad that Højlund listens when I speak. I had hoped that he had also heard the rest of my post, where I, among other things. said that if we are to reduce hunger, the world's food policy needs to change. I say we need a new policy in this area in the WTO. The starting point for this new policy must be that each country has both the right and the obligation to feed its own people to the extent that they can. In order to ensure this, it is necessary to establish trade rules that distinguish between food production for export and food production in order to cover national consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3077	I have asked for the floor to comment briefly on the request made by the representative Marit Nybakk regarding these proposals. It is true that we have worked in parallel in two committees, and the Christian People's Party's position and proposals are completely consistent in both committees, but it is natural that we do not get two votes in the staging room over the same proposal on the same day, with different settings, so that we can deal with it when we get to voting. But I would like to inform you that on the part of the Christian People's Party, at least we want to get the vote on this matter that we are now dealing with. The question of transmission is related to how the Government responds to the proposal, and in the change of line the Council of State said he would consider it. He said very positively about the proposal, but he used the expression that he would ‘if necessary’ come back to Stortinget. It is clear that with such a prospect, that you might want to come back, we would rather have a vote on the proposal. It is better than to have such an uncertain destiny as the Council of State has described. If he chooses to formulate himself more obligating, we can get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3086	When there is a clear recommendation from the Storting, the Government will, of course, come back to the Storing with a reaction to it. What I said, if any, was what the content of that setting should be. We must be allowed to come back to that, because this is an important proposal, which I have repeatedly said is positive, but which we must be allowed to come back to as to what the answer should be. But that we're going to come back? Yes, of course. So it was Øyvind Korsberg's posts that made me say something in the end, because it contained three things of importance. One is a very clear raised front. Morten Höglund has spoken nicely about assistance to a considerable extent, but it becomes incomprehensible when you talk nice about assistance, that it is so important to tell that it does not work, and that it is important to keep it low and spend little money on it. If the Progress Party first wants to spend a large amount on aid – they want to spend billions – it must be because they think it works. Then it's also completely incomprehensible that if you use more, you don't get to do more. It is quite similar to school or road construction or health: first, the results must be good. You have to run efficiently, and if you run efficiently, you usually get more if you spend more money. You get better school if you run efficiently and spend more money, and exactly the way you help, too: as long as you run it efficiently and well, you'll get more done with more. And then Kenya's representative comes out as an example, and that's a terrible example. But we're not running state aid in Kenya either. A book has just been published, which I recommend to store representatives to read. It's called "It's our turn to eat". It's about Kenya's corruption hunter John Githongo, and it's just a "crowder," a horror story about how hard it is to fight corruption in a country like Kenya. I recently met Kenya's prime minister, Raila Odinga. He put such a pile of ringbarrows on the table. There were assessments of corruption cases in Kenya that he had started. But he doesn't get to judge anyone, because the judiciary is so corrupt that it's almost impossible to get cases through. Therefore, there is every reason to be cautious in a country like Kenya. But at the same time, Kenya is a great potential for conflict, and it can drag other countries into that conflict. Finally, the representative referred to the rainforest report. I just have to stress that it is a report that we, the Ministry of Environment, have ordered, and that we have paid, just to get good input into the debate. The main response to avoiding the corruption problem throughout the rainforest activity is that it should be results-based. We imagine three phases. The current phase is pilot programmes and national plans. The next stage is that countries produce national rainforest programmes and are paid on the basis of the results they deliver, not because of the plans, but because they deliver a result in terms of reduced deforestation. Because that's what they get paid by the international community. A third stage will be to connect this into the global quota system when it comes, but it's a few years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3100	The President has reason to believe that the reference to the representative Øyvind Korsberg was the coin of the representative Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3103	Yes, it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3108	The next speaker is Morten Höglund. Morten Höglund has had the word twice and gets the word for a short clarification, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3111	When the Council of State says that I am about to make it so that we want as much assistance as the Government, I will strongly distance myself from it. I underlined in my post, and I even said that I underlined it, that assistance can have an effect. We have repeatedly presented challenges and problems of assistance in this room, almost every month, because we believe it does not give the effect and the results that we wanted it to give. So to the representative of the Skjellaa, who wants a different system of the World Trade Organisation. It could be interesting, with all due respect for those who now want this debate to be concluded, to challenge the Kjellaa on whether the representative of the Kjellaa feels that the government has taken the steps that the Central Party here argues that one should take?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3118	Rune J. Skjælaa has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3121	The three government parties talk and act very well together. This is a problem issue that the Government is familiar with. It actually absorbs all three government parties that about 1 billion people starve, that 250 million more people now starve than one year ago. It's something that this government wants to grips with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3127	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3425]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3144	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3153	Schools have been one of the most debated topics in the media and in political circles for over a year. Peace, order, discipline and a good learning environment have been important keywords. It is also the theme of this matter. Regrets and unrest are, unfortunately, a major problem in school. Actionable school staff have been requested and measures taken to repatriate the teacher as requested by the official. Of course, it is the responsibility of the school and the individual teacher to enforce the regulations and ensure good working conditions in the classroom. Of course, each student has obligations to comply with the rules in force at school. It is then also a joint committee which considers it absolutely necessary to follow up infringements of the Rules of Procedure in the form of penalties. It is very positive that schools address the problem and, through different instruments, try to find solutions to different situations. Teachers must have the opportunity to do their job, to teach. Students are also entitled to a good, well-functioning learning environment. Some schools have established rules of procedure in which students' rights and duties are described and made mutually binding for students, the school and its directors. This is also the background to this case, and the case under which the Directorate of Education's decision is based, where the Directorate of Education is, in other words, tightening the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Based on the school regulations, a practice has been introduced in which students who do not meet exactly to the hour are referred to the library for the remainder of the hour. It must be added that alternative teaching arrangements are in place at the library with environmental work, where students who have been expelled from education can work for the rest of the hour. The County Council considered that this scheme is pedagogically sound, subject to systematic follow-up of pupils who are in breach of the school regulations. The Committee agrees. There is unnecessary bureaucracy and poor use of school resources if only the principal has the authority to expel students from individual hours. Such powers should be delegated to the teachers. Such practice lies within the scope of action which individual teachers must have in order to exercise authority and class management. The effect of an immediate reaction to a rule violation is itself a point. On 8 May 2009, the Committee received letters from the Council of State for Solhjell supporting the Committee's position: I quote from the letter written in book goals: ‘I believe that the decision to reject individual hours should be able to be delegated from the principal to the teachers. The Ministry will therefore, at the hearing, submit a proposal to amend the rules of the Training Act and the Private School Act which provide for the delegation of a disfellowshipping authority for individual hours from the principal to the professionals.’;» I am very pleased that the Council of State has followed up this matter very quickly. The legislative proposal has already been drawn up and sent to the hearing on Friday 5 June. The proposal states, inter alia, that: the following: ‘The rector may, however, decide that teachers shall have the means to decide whether to reject education for a period of up to one day.’ That's good. And that's also this committee wants. Nevertheless, the minority has made a proposal that is identical to the one already initiated by the Government and actually implemented. Since the mission has already come a long way in the process, I allow myself to say that the minority proposal seems somewhat redundant. It's actually going to be opening wide-open doors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3185	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review until the last sentence to open wide doors. The rapporteur could have saved himself, but otherwise it was quite good. It has been common practice in Norwegian schools that teachers have the power to expel pupils from single hours if they break the rules of procedure. The system is important both to ensure the ability of the teacher to sanction non-regulatory students and to ensure the teacher’s authority in the classroom. There has never been a political dispute about the teacher's right to expel students, and the debate was probably somewhat surprising when the Education Directorate interpreted the current legislation so that expulsion from individual hours was not permitted. Since this practice has been followed for a very long time, and in the obvious belief that one has the right to do so, one could argue that the scheme is established in customary law, or that the intervention is so insignificant that it does not require a separate authorisation for the implementation of individual hours of expulsion. However, the Directorate-General for Education considers that separate grounds are necessary. There is an interpretation that the department obviously agrees with, and there is a notice of legislative change, as the rapporteur explained. It should therefore be expected that today's Stortinget proposal would actually receive unanimous agreement, so that the Council of State does not undertake a work which has already been voted down by the Assembly. However, the Progress Party believes that one does not need to wait for a legislative proposal from the Government because the representatives of the Storting can choose a more efficient and less bureaucratic solution. It is the Stortinget that is the legislative authority and in any case has to deal with this matter. For this reason, the Progress Party has promoted a legislative proposal that will provide a basis for individual hours of expulsion. That proposal is under consideration in Odelstinget later today. So those who think it's important to ensure such a permit as soon as possible, will be able to vote for that proposal tonight. It's important that you don't get a situation where the teachers get a stay in the right to expel students from singles. It is our task as legislator to correct the error that has actually been committed, by not having incorporated a separate warrant when the department believes it is necessary. On that basis, I allow myself to refer to the debate in Odelstinget later today, and on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I address the minority proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3198	The representative of Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3201	I was actually just going to give credit to the rapporteur for the good unloading of the proposal, but also for the premature response to the matter which, in itself, is the basis for this. I have joined the case since it appeared in the Uppland County, which is the rapporteur's home country. My conclusion is, "What took you so long?" And it's to the Council of State. Here the case rapporteur went quite hard into the local media and said that here we have to change immediately, but the Council of State set and waited so long that we found reason to present the document proposal. So using words like turning open doors, I think I'm unnecessary in such a case. This is important. In Norwegian school, there is a focus on requirements, quality and knowledge at school. The fact that the Council of State rules a bureaucracy that, in such a setting, can make the decision that the Directorate of Education has made here, I think is a bigger problem and a bigger challenge than the fact that we are discussing a proposal that some people may think is superfluous. I think the Council of State should give much clearer signals about what is now the main trend in the Norwegian school debate, and it is not that the authority of the teacher and the teacher's instrument in relation to the problem of fighting and unrest should be weakened. At least that signal should now be perceived. I have read some evaluations from Reform 97, where Professor Frøydis Hertzberg among others. says that there is too much tolerance in Norwegian school, and that teachers refuse to appear with authority. Then we have a real challenge. And the fact that you were to deprive the teacher of using such an instrument as a single-hour ban seems to be quite meaningless. I take note that the Department and the Council of State have come up with better ideas, and I am very pleased that a proposal has already been sent out. It's good that it's gone so fast. We have one challenge in renunciation, and that is if it turns out that some teachers are overrepresented in the use of this tool, but I think that is a challenge for the principal and for the principal. Then you have to deal with that situation, because then it is probably a teacher who is struggling and who needs some help. But it should not be worse than that the local principal can handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3210	I was so lucky to grow up in a community where adults were involved in the youth community. Our youth club was a very broken congregation. We had very different backgrounds, and we were at times quite a lively crowd that could sometimes be difficult to deal with. But then the adults introduced very clear, straightforward and simple rules for discipline. If they were not followed, we were expelled from the club for one night. As long as the rules were straightforward, clear and simple to deal with, they were also respected by the entire youth community. Similarly, we now need to give teachers the opportunity to handle things, clear and simple rules of discipline. But they must be known, they must be good, and they must be able to react quickly, so that it is the teacher himself who gets to sit with the authority. That is why I am very pleased with the proposal from the Right and will praise them for having promoted it, and I am pleased that the Council of State has also sent it out to the hearing. But I would like to stress that proposing to amend the provisions of the Training Act, as it says in the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is about presenting a proposal to the Stortinget. And until that is done, we maintain – at least for the Christian People's Party – this proposal that lies here. I think it would have given a very good weight to the teachers if this proposal had had a unanimous greatness behind it. It had given the teachers the authority they need, and then you put away a little bit who suggested what first. Then we agree to give a signal about what we think is important. I would recommend to the majority that you look at the matter with that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3219	It is positive that the Government has sent, at the hearing, proposals for a change to the Training Act, in order to clarify the teacher’s ability to expel the students if necessary. But we can't allow ourselves to make this a sleep cushion, or an important instrument for creating peace and order in the classroom. It is not the main challenge that the teacher’s authority is too weak or that they should be able to reject or not reject. The big challenge we have in our classrooms today is that too many children master the school day too badly, and they can't keep up with it. SV is concerned that all children should be able to learn, master and thrive in school. The major challenge is the general problem and the unrest in school among all students. We've been working on early work and more teachers. During this government period, we have provided 4,000 new teachers in school, and later this evening we will debate and adopt early efforts, which will lead to about 2,000 more teachers to help the very youngest students. We also know the use of comprehensive training programmes, which are research-based, with good evaluation and which we know work to create calm, order and concentration in school. Respect, the LP model and the PALS are good examples of these programmes. SV has said in our program that we want to introduce such programs in all schools, because we know it works when students and teachers have clear rules and clear value-based programs that benefit. It's good that teachers should be able to expel students. But the goal in school is to get better learning. The aim of the SV policy is that teachers should not have to expel more students in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3232	I take the floor just to mention one point, because the matter is highlighted by the case-rapporteur and everyone who has spoken. I take the floor because it seems, through this example from Gausdal, to be a sort of perception in high school that there is no need to follow the rules that are regularly respected in school before. We have, as the last speaker was concerned, actions such as Connect, Respect, PALS, etc., which are in practice about rights and obligations and mutual respect between teachers and students. I'm just going to this pulpit to say that it must of course also be in high school, among 16- to 19-year-olds, that there must be a situation with mutual respect between teacher and student. It must also be in high school that there are rights and obligations for teachers and students. It can't be that the students have all the rights and teachers have all the obligations. I feel that what Stortinget says today is that it is these norms that apply – in short. When I think there's reason to stress it, it's because we have a number of proposals from the Education Directorate that have been put to the hearing, that don't seem, from the point of view of the fine, to bring these basic standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3239	It could be a long night and night, so when there are questions about who was first and last and open doors and such, I think we can conclude that at least we can now be some that regardless of the order and initiative and how it was, all are some about the main features. I want to draw a couple of points. When a bill is passed, it's not quite unusual, almost whatever the field is, that one comes up in situations where there's a discussion or it's unclear whether something is in line with or contrary to that law. In some situations it may be that it is the interpretation of the law that needs to be clarified. In other situations, when one goes into them, it will show that what is agreed on on the paper is different from the practice that is. Then you have to change the law. That's the case in this case. Once one has gone into it thoroughly, we actually see that we literally have to make a change in the law so that the practice that is negotiated in the Storting should be passed on. I would like to thank the representative, Mr. Enger, for having taken this matter up and presented it as clearly as she has done on this issue. What we end up at today has clearly proved to be the right thing to do. I also want to point to a little thing that's different. I've looked at the matter more closely, and that's because the proposal that you're going to consider later in Odelstinget is that the principals should be able to give their teachers the opportunity to reject lessons. The proposal sent by the Government on Friday is a proposal that that right should apply to expulsion up to one day. So the proposal is not exactly the same, so one thing gives a little more room for action to the individual teacher than the proposal we're going to vote on later in Odelstinget. My perception is – that's why I've sent it to listen in this way – that it's the wisest way to deal with it, because I think it would be a pretty big deal for teachers to have that authority and the ability to handle situations, even beyond a single hour. So, in my opinion, it's also important to have a hearing process in matters. It could be like, when we send it on the phone, that someone would say that there are other things that need to be adjusted. Or someone might argue that it should be just an hour and not up to one day. Then it would be natural for everyone to be able to express themselves when we know that there are different views. I think it's right to have a hearing process in this law, as in other matters. I would also like to point out that there is a slight difference where the government party goes a little bit further in assigning the authority to the teachers than the proposal to be dealt with in Odelstinget tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3252	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3269	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3278	A proposal similar to what we are about to consider was also made in the previous session. Now, as at the time, the Committee has divided itself into a majority, consisting of the governmental parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and a minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right. The majority is in favour of attaching the proposal to the protocol. Compulsory secondary education has long traditions in Norwegian schools. Lateral education is an important part of the school’s dissemination of the national cultural heritage, and knowledge and use of both forms of writing enrich our Norwegian language. The Christian People's Party believes the side goal has a natural place both in primary school and in secondary school. Changes in the law that lead to optional secondary school education will involve a significant change in Norwegian language policy. We need mechanisms to protect minority interests. This applies not least in areas related to linguistic and cultural diversity. Language and language development apply to all parts of society. This is about democracy and awareness of the value of language for culture and identity. At a time when neo-normous is the main goal for some and under pressure, we should not open up what is actually a liberalisation of Norwegian language policy. I believe that politicians must dry up to rule so that we still have a linguistic diversity in Norway. Today, a number of jobs require mastering both types of goals, including: within the school and local government. In the context of the proposal, reference is made to the Norwegian Language Council, which, in its opinion, pointed out: ‘State institutions have difficulty in complying with target laws, and many of them justify this by the fact that the newcomer’s competence is too poor.’ In this context, we believe that there is a need to look at whether or not cross-target training, in particular training in new Norwegian, should be strengthened. The Language Law states that book measures and new Norwegian are equivalent language forms and shall be equivalent in all public bodies. Formally, however, nine Norse and Bokmål are similar forms of language. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the public has a special responsibility to facilitate the development of new Norse people in a good way. With this, I would recommend the majority vote. I expect the proposers to explain their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3296	As many people have mentioned here, this is a proposal that we have made several times. And we're not going to give up -- we're probably going to advance it again, until we get through it. In Norway, we have in a way three written languages, Sami and Norwegian, with the language variants Bokmål and Nynorsk. The bookcase is today the dominant target form and is used in writing by almost 90 pst. by all the Northmen. The proposal we are discussing today can actually be one of the keys to strengthening the Norwegian language, because it is important to look at how the Norwegian language manages to assert itself against the massive English influence, not least in relation to ICT and the Internet. In an internationalised world where we are increasingly linked with other countries and their language culture, it is important to strengthen the Norwegian language form that we use most. But it does not in any way mean that there should be synonymous with exemptions from training in side targets. That is why this proposal is primarily about making written instruction optional. The oral secondary education, dialectic teaching and literary and cultural knowledge shall continue to be part of the compulsory Norwegian education. Of course, everyone should still know who Ivar Aasen was, and what he wrote. We believe it has little purpose to have a requirement for teaching and exams in two almost identical languages. We know that many of our students today have low skills in reading and writing, and that this may be related to the requirement for education and examination in two different target forms. The aim of the proposal, of course, is not to destroy one of the forms of language, but to make learning easier and better by getting only one written language to deal with. Whether there is bookkeeping or new Norwegian will be up to the individual municipality and the individual student to decide. The day only has 24 hours, and a normal day of school today is five and a half hours. Then it is important to focus on what gives the most outreach of the resources we put in, i.e. depression in the most widely used form in Norway, with the possibility of optional side objectives where desired. And we can all have Ivar Aasen on the night table.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3311	I just want to make a few brief comments about both the proposal and the subject matter. For the right part, we want to strengthen both of the targets, including the new one. I think we need to recognise that the newnorm is under pressure – I think everyone realizes that both book users and newcomers – but that the main challenge is that there are fewer people using newnorm today, and that that is the factor that constitutes the greatest pressure on the newnorm. I think the future of the new Norway lies in the fact that more people have it as their main goal. I would also like to refer to the experiment that was made at nine secondary schools in Oslo, where the written page target was made optional. Although there was a small attempt, the evaluations there indicate that the students were getting a little better in their main goal. But what was perhaps the most enjoyable thing was that the students got a completely different and better attitude about newnorm -- they thought that newnorm was a more fun topic, a more fun subject and a more fun language. That's what I think we should also remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3320	I'll just take the word to include our suggestions in the setting, which was forgotten a little while ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3325	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3328	Language can be fun, but it's especially important, I'd say. And as the government sees it, it's part of having competence in language, to have competence in the use of both of the two writing languages we have in Norway – new Norwegian and Bokmål. In school days, in some things, we relate to exams, we talk about side goals and main goals. We have different side objectives and main objectives, but as a language, both are alive and in use, and there are a number of practical situations in the workplace, for example. where many will acquire competence in both new Norse and Bookkeeping. What I often think is a little surprising in this question is that in most other contexts, there is a reasonable consensus that the image is essentially that if a person makes right demands on what to learn and bring with him knowledge, spends more time on it, and says that it must apply to everyone, then the students will also learn more and get more knowledge – at least as a general rule, although unfortunately it does not apply to everyone. But just in the question of nynostic and book goals, or in order to be more precise, someone has found that it is quite the opposite – that if a person makes fewer demands on what benefits to have, and does not have it as mandatory, then one might learn more. I don't think there's any evidence to suggest that there should be any such exception to the general rule that we can use, just when it's in the case of neuron. Therefore, the government believes that we should have both training and exams in both the writing language, and that today's system works well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3338	The Council of State said that this proposal was, in fact, a question of new Norwegian. That is not the reality. The reality is that it's about side measures, and it was made very clear in both the proposal, the vote and the post that was kept from the pulpit. I hope that the Council of State in the future will deal with what is the reality of the matter, instead of making this a fight against nenosics, because it is absolutely not. The proposers are concerned that the place of the new Norway should be ensured. The Council of State claims that there is no evidence that language training contributes to the confusion of some students who are weak in their main written objectives. Is the Council completely unknown that there is a problem that many students are struggling with side goals precisely because it is so similar to their main goal and that it contributes to a linguistic confusion that reduces the learning of the main goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3345	When it comes to the first, I have just read the case documents and through them I find that perhaps more is being targeted at those who have book goals as their main goal and a new one as their side goal. At the time I went to school, I had new Norwegian, which is called the main goal and book destination as a side goal, as well as a good number of others. My main picture is that learning language and other disciplines can be demanding. Knowledge and effort are required to cope. I'm of the opinion that we have two written languages that are both so important, no matter what one has as a primary goal, that one must set them as demands for the effort and acquisition of knowledge even when it relates to the lateral goal that one does not have as its primary goal, because we have two writing languages in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3351	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3370	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3379	The school environment shall be free of bullying and violence, sexual harassment, racism and other offensive behaviour. One should have zero tolerance on bullying in school. Preventing bullying is an important tool in improving school learning. It's probably almost nothing one that parents are more afraid of than experiencing that your child is being bullied, but nevertheless it happens. Too many children lie down in the evening with pain in their stomach and fear for the next school day. Too many children experience being excluded, harassed, turned on or harassed. Imagine, Mr. President, if you were to come to the Stortinget and on your way into the hall, someone had taken your briefcase and written bad messages, or you had been pushed and beaten, or when you said something, everyone just had the terms. It is not acceptable that many children experience their school day that way. Bullying destroys the lives and future of many children. Too many are bullied without anyone intervening. It's legal for both school and teachers to stop bullying. The Working Environment Act for pupils states that each child has the right to a good working environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. The figures from the 2009 Student Survey show that bullying is falling slightly. In 2008, 24 p.m. that they had been bullied at a rare time or more in the last months, while 23.6 pst. reported this in 2009. We're on the right track, but it's going down too slowly. The work against bullying needs to be intensified. In the adopted teacher training programme, it will be introduced that all teacher students will have the competence to detect and counteract bullying in school. The National Oversight Theme 2010 shall be related to the legislation of the Training Act on the psychosocial school environment. Working systematically and daily to combat bullying is important. The first manifesto against bullying was signed in 2002. The work continued with a new manifesto against bullying, which was signed this year. The manifesto says that both parents, school owners, teachers and government are committed to continuing and strengthening the work against bullying. The law obliges the school to act quickly when you receive enquiries from students or parents that the training environment is not as it should be. It can also be complained if the school does not take a decision on the matter. Parental participation, in line with student participation, is important in ensuring a good school environment for students. All schools shall have a school environment committee in which parents and pupils are to be majority members today. The proposals of the Progress Party involve a problematisation around being able to expel students from school. I would like to stress that there is access to expelling students both in primary and secondary education — both hours and the rest of the day — and in secondary education, expulsion can take place for up to five days, in serious cases also for the rest of the school year. All members of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, believe that the forced movement of students is not the best solution for combating bullying. In this year's government budget, the red-green majority has doubled the amount of money spent on bullying programmes. It's important. Research and studies in schools that have linked themselves to research-based comprehensive training programmes such as the PALS, Respect and the LP model have very good results in reducing bullying in school. I was visiting Smestad School in Oslo a few weeks ago, where the last school student survey shows that there are no students being bullied. One can never be sure, but they have worked systematically with the program Respect, where teachers, principal and parents have worked systematically and well together. They have zero tolerance on bullying. Respect is a value-based attitude programme. In its opinion, the following decision is proposed by a unanimous committee: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals on how best to implement an anti- bullying programme or an action plan against bullying in all schools.’ A number of proposals are made in the configuration. The various proposals may be brought up to date by the proposers. But briefly to proposal No. 1, which I look at as turning open doors. Firstly, the Education Directorate has been given the task of developing a programme for the inclusive learning and learning environment to help strengthen the school’s efforts to combat bullying and to provide guidance on how to understand and follow up the legislation at each school. In the Manifesto against bullying, they work on the issues raised by the proposal. I would also recommend the opposition to watch the Kjetil and Kjartan videos made in the fight against bullying. In the case of student representatives, the Committee recommends that in the Manifesto Against Bullying 2009-2010 one of the concrete measures is to gain experience with independent control committees and representatives of students in Norway and the Nordic countries, in order to assess whether a central student representative should be established. The Committee even says that there is a positive attitude towards the creation of a student representative. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3427	I will not add much to the rapporteur's descriptive and good statements. Also, I am glad that there is a broad consensus in this room to take the fight against bullying in school seriously. Bullying is a problem that is too important for us to reduce it to discuss percentages or promiles up or down in the case of students who are subjected to bullying. It doesn't help those who are being bullied, that there's a little less exposed to it. The Bondevik II government did not abolish bullying with its zero vision, but put it on the agenda. It was important in terms of reducing bullying. This government has followed up with a new manifesto, and this year there was also more money for bullying programs. In order to combat bullying in school, it is important that we, as politicians, stand united behind the anti- bullying work. We also show that in this case, for example. by stating that it wishes to have an anti- bullying programme or an action plan against bullying in all schools. Today’s training laws and school regulations that are available around the different schools can be used in the fight against bullying. Bullying is not acceptable behaviour, and it has to be turned on. But then the issue is the forced movement of bullies, which is a proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone. There's no easy solution to the bullying problem. Many measures need to be taken. Forcing the bullying can mean moving the challenge, that doesn't mean solving it. So I can't avoid commenting on one thing from the setting. I believe that the members of the Progress Party are making an infringement. On page 3 of the setting they write that they mean ‘it is unacceptable for public authorities to facilitate the continued unimpaired operation of bullies by the serious situation to which they expose their fellow human beings’. Such a claim that public authorities almost facilitate bullying, I find very premature from a party that I take seriously. Finally, we all have a responsibility to continue the fight against bullying in school. It's most destructive to the individual, but it's also devastating to the school environment. And although there are different suggestions in this case, I am glad that both previous and current governments take this seriously and want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3449	Several thousand students grunt every day to go to school. It's a very serious situation. Despite periodic policy focus, much indicates that the trend is again going wrong — although in the last survey a decrease of 0.4 pst can be seen. Bullying happens primarily because we let it happen. The consequences of bullying are in some cases so cruel that words cannot explain it. Our children, with a sunny future ahead, can be destroyed by other children because we adults can't set limits, follow along and follow up. Parents have a clear responsibility to answer something other than that my son could never do anything like that, and the teacher has a clear responsibility to see what happens, and not close his eyes for convenience. The rector shall have zero tolerance for any type of bullying and ensure that it is followed up in all classrooms and during all free minutes. The municipality must be on the victim's side, not on the attacker's side. That is not the case today. That is why the Party of Advancement stands firm on the note from which the representative Kjernli was provoked. It is important to have strong political pressure on measures to reduce bullying. Clear communication, consistent enforcement of order rules, information measures, role-playing and parental participation are effective in the schools that use it. In addition, the Progress Party believes that it must be possible to place responsibility and consequences for bullying on the bully. In those cases where bullying becomes so serious that you have to change school to stop it, the bullying victim is always being moved. Never move on to the one who creates the problem, but one forces the victim to cut the tapes of his friends in high school and start in a new place. It's on the verge of pushing responsibility from the bully and over to the victim. Therefore, the Advance Party will open up the possibility of moving the bully out of school in extreme cases, not the victim. It will in itself be preventive because the bully suddenly runs the risk, not the victim. At the same time, this is a moral question: can we, as a big community, accept that our failed attempt to prevent bullying is going to impose additional pressure on the bullying victim, while the bully is standing in the corner and flirting? The progress party says no. Often those who are bullied feel that they are not supported by their own teachers or schools, and that the struggle for a decent life at school is hopeless. Therefore, the Progress Party will establish its own student representative, who will also have the task of being on the side of the bullying victim in order to safeguard the rights and interests of this student. Knowing that someone outside the school can be approached for help and support is an important measure. The Christian People's Party in the matter proposes its own bullying agent for each state. The proposals of the Progress Party do not preclude such practice of the Ombudsman’s system, but we have found that it should be of a national nature in order to ensure the best possible competence in such situations. The intentions of the Christian People's Party proposal are, of course, very good and correspond to the intentions of the Advance Party in a very good way. In the work on this proposal, I asked my oldest son what he thought could be good measures to combat bullying. He contributed well to the proposal, and I am pleased with the recordings he made, which resulted in what in the vote is proposal No. 1, and I'm glad it gets support from an overall opposition. In the proposal, we ask the Government to implement better information measures to school owners on how to combat bullying better through consistent enforcement of order rules and awareness-raising measures, both in play / role-playing, better information and parental participation. I am disappointed that the government parties could not reach out to support that proposal. Although they claim that it is like opening doors – which has obviously become the government’s new favourite concept – increased information measures are one of the important measures that all parties in this room should clearly signal that they are united. I therefore allow myself to ask the Government Parties and the Council of State to reconsider whether they can help to support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Finally, I would like briefly to say a few words about the possibilities of those who are bullied to disease, having to get compensation. It's actually disappearing little chances. The cases we have had in the legal system have largely ended very badly for the victims. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that one should look into the possibility of compensation for those who experience health damage due to prolonged and psychological terror and bullying in school, and make it real. Such an assessment should consider whether to establish objective responsibility for the school owner when it is demonstrated that there has been serious bullying at school. I am not saying that the Progress Party has concluded that it should be such an objective responsibility, but it should be included in an assessment by the Ministry. I noticed with some sadness that we were standing alone about this. In short, I want to commend former Prime Minister Bondevik for putting bullying on the agenda. Unfortunately, it seems that it is difficult to keep a lasting and hard political pressure on this issue. It shows this case. With that, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party shares with others and alone in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3468	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3471	As all the speakers have been about, bullying is a completely unacceptable behavior and tragedy for those who are exposed to it. But I would also say that it is a tragedy for the school environment, because it will necessarily reflect a pretty bad school environment. This is about being prepared, about having focus, but it's also about having good school management and good class management. I think maybe that's where much of the challenge lies. We're on the right path, writes the majority in the position. I would say that it was the Bondevik II government that was on the right track. Then the bully went down pretty hard in school, since it has increased dramatically. Centers for behavioral research show it quite clearly. In 2008, 28 000 students were bullied every day in steps 5 to 10. There was an increase of 10,500 students from 2004. The bullying had increased by 44 pst. in youth, and pupils who are themselves bullying are also increasing sharply. Here are some real challenges. It is well as VG wrote earlier this year that there has been a complete lack of focus on this challenge so far in the period. I record that some measures have now been speeded up, but there has been a lack of focus. Bullying is a big challenge for school. It often happens very sophisticated, and one has new methods – one has mobile phones and other technological solutions that make bullying quite invisible. The methods girls and boys use in bullying, are quite distinct from each other. We also see that many teachers and maybe schoolteachers tend to stand on the side of the bully, at least before finding out that it's bullying. Here are some mechanisms that create quite major challenges for the school. Having said that, I would say that I don't think forced displacement is the solution, but at the same time, I see that it may come to force a claim that you can't let the bullying victim become the loser in every context. I very much agree with the proposers that this is a huge challenge. But I don't think forcing someone does solve any challenge, but it's about focusing a completely different focus on the challenge than what's done so far. I think I'd say it so clearly: the degree of bullying at a school reflects the competence of the headmaster and the headmaster. When you look at the numbers from the Center for Behavioral Research, we see that we actually have a real challenge to tackle here in school. We can't avoid finding solutions to it, because too many people suffer from it every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3480	The Progress Party addresses a very important issue in this matter. There is no doubt that being bullyed can set lasting tracks. Six out of ten children and young people today referred to children’s psychiatric institutions report having been subjected to bullying. Several thousand students go to school every day with a bad feeling. They know that they will meet a new day where there is harassment, humiliation and harassment, and where you risk becoming both outcast and lonely. Many people spend their entire lives working out bad experiences from these childhood and youth years. In 2002, the Bondevik II government launched Manifesto against bullying and launched its zero vision. The background was that we saw an increasing incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools, and the strong media focus with many strong stories helped to make this known. Both King Harald and then Prime Minister Bondevik held New Year's speech on bullying, and schools were offered the anti- bullying programs that had documented effect. There were many at the time who disagreed about launching a zero vision, because they thought it was unrealistic. But the strong focus and ambitious goals that were set at that time produced results. While the bullying increased by an average of 10 pst. in the year 1995–2001, bullying was reduced by 30 pst in 2004. Unfortunately, we see that the pressure and focus have disappeared in recent years, and that the number of bullying has increased again. Although the 2008 figures show a slight decrease, overall development has gone wrong since 2005. I'm not going to repeat the numbers that Gundersen referred to from the behavioral research center, but that means that 7.5 pst. of all students in these year classes experience bullying. This shows that the fight against bullying must be waged all the time. In this case it is not useful with a rest cutting. We are therefore pleased that the Government and a Joint Committee support the proposal for a decision to ask the Government to draw up proposals on how best to implement the anti- bullying programme or an action plan against bullying in all schools. To avoid bullying, there is a need for clear adults, dedicated teachers and politicians, and not least fellow students who care. Most of the problems of bullying need to be addressed locally in interactions between pupils, parents and school. Valuable children and young people are the best starting point for a bully-free school day. Unfortunately, there are too many cases where students and parents do not feel that the school is adequately addressing the problems or is able to find a solution when they experience that one of their children has been bullied. I am concerned that these families are not going to fight the system, in addition to the challenges they already have. Therefore, the Christian People's Party proposes to introduce a bully in each state. The bullying officer shall be the talker of both the student and the parents, and a resource in the ongoing effort to combat bullying in school. They'll also be an amazing help when the problem gets so big that you can't solve it locally. In Sweden, they have their own children’s and students’ representative who help bullies to get through the judicial system and who oblige municipalities to pay compensation if it turns out that they have neglected. If the municipalities refuse to accept the claim, there will be legal proceedings, where the representative represents the student and is responsible for any costs. This makes it clear to schools that there are consequences not to follow up what is stated in the school law on the student’s right to a safe and stimulating school environment, free from bullying. I believe that it is possible to achieve a change of mind without that we are rid of all problems. We now need a deep mobilization again of attitudes based on that we've decided that we don't want bullying in school. With regard to the forced movement of students, Anundsen’s articles could sound like bullying is always between one and one person — one bully and one bully. It is often the case in these cases that you have developed an entire environment, and it will be difficult to find out who it is to be moved and not moved. But one thing I would like to thank the Progress Party for, and that is that they focus on the matter, because it must be a clear and clear signal that the solution should not be that it is the bullying victim who is going to move in these matters. You don't need the extra burden in an already difficult case. I'm addressing proposal No. 5, of which the Christian People's Party stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3506	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3509	I just took the word to reflect on two relationships. The rapporteur said that proposal No. 1 was ‘like opening doors’. Yes, it would have been very pleasant if it had been so simple. We could have solved what we're facing by taking a decision here in this room, but we can't. Everyone on this platform knows that this is something that needs to be done over and over again. I think a lot of people have been at the heart of it -- making demands on school management and teachers, making demands on parents, and making demands on an environment. What I see happening tonight is that the whole Stortinget is also in this area, as in other areas, like for example. in the fight against violence in close relationships, stand together and hold up pressure. The second is that over the years, I have often fought too many representatives. But I have gradually begun to doubt the Ombudsman, for it has begun to become a way of removing responsibility from those who are to be responsible. School owners are responsible, and I'm actually worried that we have so little debate about the content of the school – I know that we have a case later this evening that will do something about it. It worries me. Clearly, if we had had a lively debate on the content of the school on the agenda of local government, there is no doubt that there would be pressure on both the school's professional content and the topic we have in common here tonight, because we are all concerned about it. For my part, I have more faith in that method. If there's something in addition, it's going to be using the student representatives that we have. We have it in all the counties, except four, as we have written in a joint comment from the Right and the Left. That's the approximation. But having a lively debate about the contents of the school would help keep the pressure up. I perceive that we will later come back to proposals that are just doing something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3521	Let me just add a couple of comments first, and that only applies to the number discussion. It's often the case that most of us might be selective about what numbers you're presenting. There are various studies where one attempt to measure the extent of bullying and one that has been referred to here several times is an investigation by the Behavioral Research Centre in 2008 and as a comparison to a corresponding study in 2004. She showed a clear rise in bullying. The size has itself confirmed the implementation of a quality development system within the school. Part of it is a student survey, where students answer questions, among other things. a fairly comprehensive survey on the development of bullying, where we have comparable figures on a range of sizes from 2005 and annually up to the last figures that came just a short time ago. There are rather small developments. It has been mentioned here that it has been a tiny drop in the last year. What has not been mentioned is that when we look at numbers, it turns out that there is a slight decrease in bullying from 2005 to 2008, and that we are now somewhat below it. But then I have to add that the changes every year are pretty small. There's no reason to be happy with the numbers. But that's the actual image when we measure it in the annual, most comprehensive and systematic way that we ourselves have agreed to be the basis for the discussion locally and nationally through the quality development system. So, I believe, like the representative of Eriksen and others here, that it was very important that the then Prime Minister Bondevik – and the King, for the sake of the cause, the same year – took the initiative to get a major social debate and to fight bullying. I think it actually played a big role in putting that question on the agenda, and it meant a lot to a lot of people. I'm also of the opinion that it was absolutely right that a zero vision was launched. Some questions like that are difficult to ask other than as a vision, that one should get rid of it, whether it is a matter of abolishing poverty or of having a zero vision of bullying. Then one has to live with that it gives many hours to one when the goal, where one can't say one has come completely to the goal. Finally, let me say that I think the debate on the individual proposals themselves has highlighted them in a clear way. But I notice that a Joint Committee is asking the Government to draw up proposals on how best to implement an anti- bullying programme or an action plan against bullying in all schools. And of course we'll follow that up. I take it as an important signal that all of the tools we know research has the greatest effect and means the most, and is also important for a mass accumulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3536	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3553	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3562	The Committee's consideration of the proposal for a new funding model for basic Norwegian education shows that, with the exception of the proposers, there is a broad breakdown of the funding model we have for the school today. The proposals are therefore not accepted, but the proposals have created both commitment and debate in the course of the debate. The Committee agrees that there has been a significant awareness of local school ownership since the promise of the knowledge. The school is one of the main tasks of the municipalities, and the responsibility it entails must be clarified. In the Right, however, we believe that there has been too little pressure from the Government, and that the responsibility of the municipalities has not been clearly communicated enough. Unfortunately, we did not get the majority with us here. The Committee also agrees that there is a high level of resource use in Norwegian schools and that a clear division of roles between supervision and operation is important. The Committee stresses the responsibility of the county to follow up the compliance of the municipalities as school owners with Norwegian law. Then most of the consensus is summed up in this treatment. A single committee, with the exception of the proposers, rejects a direct unit price financing from the State as a solution to the challenges in Norwegian school. The majority do not consider a single price financing to take account of the differences in «geography and socio-economic background variables» as somewhat simpler or better than the current framework transmission system. One will meet the same challenges in finding the right allocation key as in today's system, and it will, in the majority's view, lead to municipalities no longer having a role in making school priorities. There are many challenges related to today's model. The local economy and wide variation in the activity of municipalities as school owners are some of them. However, the majority believe that it is the active municipalities that provide us with the good examples in today's School-Norway, and that the challenge is to ensure better exchange and transfer of good experience between municipalities. Then I think I've also summed up the main points the broad majority of the committee agrees on, and I'll use the rest of the post to explain to the Right Opinions. We believe, as has already been said, that the responsibilities and duties of the municipalities as school owners are too poorly communicated to the municipalities. This is a crucial prerequisite for the success of the Knowledge Lift. We have repeatedly highlighted the importance of transparency on outcomes, good analyses of local school challenges based on national tests and an active, local debate based on these analyses as being central to raising School-Norway to an international top level. It was one of the speakers in the previous case who also stressed the importance of a local debate for that issue as well. That's where we want it, but what the government has focused on is to oblige the municipalities to use their funds for fruit, and they now promise even more focus on cold food and free SFO. Competition is something today's government doesn't see the importance of general, and that's very much true in school. The Private School Act has effectively stopped the creation of good alternatives. We want to return to a law of free school, where alternatives other than religious and pedagogical alternatives can also be established as long as they meet certain quality requirements. We see that there are significant challenges in getting ahead and targeting competition against the right competitive factors in school. But a strong public school – which we all want – will be served with some good alternatives by its side. A real opportunity to choose from other schools for pupils and parents who, for different reasons, wish to do so in front of the secondary school also at primary level requires that they have some guidelines and a conscious perception of what the price per person is. student is. However, we believe that these are the exceptions and that it is the local school ownership and its priorities that need to be strengthened. We reject the claims of the government parties on improved municipal economy. Here you run a blackmail game, with local democracy as the losing party. Rather, we see that the municipalities have been given a number of new legal orders without the resources being included. There have been strong allegations from the proposers that the control role of the county council is both random and driven by media redundancy. We believe that it is important to look at this. It is important to have a control function that effectively follows the exercise of school ownership by municipalities against their responsibilities under the Training Act. I am therefore addressing what the opposition proposal is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3581	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3584	During this period of ageing, we have witnessed a clarification of the political differences in school policy. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have been largely united in school policy, while the Christian People's Party has taken an intermediate position. This proposal for a representative is yet another example of the fact that the Progress Party is a dark blue, liberalist party, but it also shows that the Right and Left are on their way, even though they do not support the proposal on the financing of the price of initial training. Single-price financing of initial training, combined with the right of establishment for private schools, will undoubtedly result in strong centralisation and a discord. When you combine it with, for example, a strong focus on competition, the desire to divide students into groups by knowledge and grades far down in high school, we are moving away from a society with equal opportunities for all. School policy is one of the pillars of the Norwegian welfare community. For us in the Workers' Party, school policy is primarily about strengthening the opportunities of each student within the community. We recognise that there is a good deal left to achieve it, but we have taken a number of measures. The focus is on early interventions, the strengthening of counselling services, more time and resources for physical activity, the involvement of teachers in continuing training, new teacher training and more focus on school-home cooperation. In addition, much more has been allocated to municipalities and county councils, and one has also ensured a quality improvement in school construction through favourable loan schemes. We also record that during the current ageing period, there have been some more teachers and a small increase in teacher density. We in the Labour Party look forward to discussing school policy in the future, not least in the election campaign, with the right parties – i.e. Left, Right and Advance Party. We are convinced that most people agree with us that the way in which a sheep achieves the best possible learning outcomes – overall, and for each individual student – is through a school policy based on early efforts, good organisation for each and every equal opportunity within the community framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3597	According to the Rules of Procedure, the posts held by this interlocutory shall be related to the matter under consideration. It was a little difficult to see how much of the post of the representative de Ruiter that was related to the matter that is actually being dealt with. I just want to briefly refer to the Ruiters characteristic of the Advance Party. I think he said ‘a dark blue, liberalist party’ – and the proposal is therefore about state funding of initial training. I think maybe the representative de Ruiter should read a little bit about ideology and ideological history before he reads off that type of tiger. The school offer is currently being financed as a framework funding for municipalities and counties. Within the framework set out in the annual budgets, municipalities shall provide the basic and important welfare services in schools and care for citizens. This scheme is based on a fundamental idea that it is the individual municipality itself that is best able to assess the organisation and quality of the offer to be made. The result of this funding mechanism is that the provision of school care and care is very diverse in the more than 430 different municipalities and 19 counties doing things their way. They give priority to what they think is most important. In addition to the basic offers, we see that many municipalities prioritise a number of other things – investments in shares, cultural houses and large, fine town halls. In today’s situation, most municipalities have to cut their school budgets. Never before has net operating performance in municipalities been worse than today. This means that the freedom that the majority believes is so important to municipalities, today it is primarily the freedom to cut more in school and in care and care. These are the largest expenditure items, and they suffer most when the municipal fund is empty. The Party considers that education is such a fundamental right that everyone should be entitled to a qualitatively good offer regardless of their place of residence. In order to achieve such a guarantee, it is essential that the financing of the offer is modified. Only by introducing a State, directly differentiated, unit price to go to the individual school via each student will a predictable school operating framework be created, based on national priorities and quality requirements. This does not mean – as the government parties believe – a massive privatisation of schools in the country, but a safe and secure financing, regardless of who owns them. The municipalities and the counties will largely remain school owners, but they will not cut school budgets when the community economy goes bad. A number of municipalities and counties have already introduced a form of price financing for schools, and experience is largely good. The point of progress makes it clear that there is a differentiated unit price that is the solution, so that a student who has, for example: dyslexia, has a higher price because more effort is needed in learning. The same applies to foreign-language students and a number of others who, for different reasons, need increased school follow-up. In this way, these students become sought after by the schools, and the schools are given automatic resources to provide the student with what they are entitled to. In today's system, schools don't get one more ear for students who need this follow-up, and the result is that students get a worse offer than they need. A proposal for unit-price financing also depends on the introduction of free school choice throughout primary education. We believe that the freedom of choice of students is a fundamental principle, and that some competition between schools is healthy. I am surprised that the Right does not support this proposal, especially since in an interpellation in this Chamber recently they indicated that students' freedom of choice is a fundamental right. It is strange that this right is only respected in interpellation debates, and not when there is a vote on concrete proposals. Perhaps this is because freedom of choice as a fundamental right does not take place until higher education, which results in some remarkable principle. It is also worth noting that the Progress Party is alone in proposing a new free establishment law for private schools, with the right to government grants. Of course, the schools must meet the necessary quality requirements, etc., but obviously no other batches will have any of them. That's too bad. On the above background, I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3625	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3628	In this case, the Progress Party proposes to transfer responsibility for the financing of primary school to the State, and then to create a financing system as mentioned, based on the unit price – payment per. The student and the money are transferred directly to the individual school. It is indeed a very radical proposal. The reality then is that the state takes over primary education. We have received a number of motivations for the proposal: the school will have a better economy, they will drop the municipal priority, students and teachers will have to choose freely – free movement – and it is pointed out that some other countries have introduced this, including the United States, Chile and New Zealand. Not nations developed according to the Scandinavian welfare model, but nations where the differences in school, the differences between those with a large money book and those with a small money book are significantly greater than in Norway — and there are differences between where to live in these countries. If we agree with this proposal from the Progress Party with another proposal, namely that the State should assume responsibility for the care of the elderly, then more than 50 pst have been taken. of the tasks of the municipalities and transfer them to the State. If we then add that the regionally elected level, the county councils, will also be liquidated, we are left with a formidable centralisation of a large part of the public sector and, by far, a liquidation of the regional and local government. There is no professional evidence to claim that unit price financing provides a qualitatively better welfare offer or a better quality school. What we know from the health sector is that unit-price financing leads to a significant build-up of a public bureaucracy, a control system. Here I would like to encourage the Progress Party to read various reports from the National Audit Office on the experience with the ISF. No, this is an ideologically motivated proposal. It's right-wing policy. It might be the contours of the modernized welfare state that the Progress Party has advertised if they come to power. The modernised welfare state: settlement and exit with the local government, and into the state single-price society. There's really not much modern about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3639	At the end of this debate there is a view of communities and municipalities. Margaret Thatcher once said: «There is no such thing as society, morely individual and their families.» Then she cut out «the civil society», the non-communist community, which is not a municipality, which is not a state – the community that we just mentioned in the previous case, about bullying, talked about mobilizing to ensure that people do something more than the legal obligation and beyond the money that comes to you in a check or an e-mail or what it is. The only one that surprises me here is the representative de Ruiter, who always keeps the same post no matter what is said. In fact, he manages to keep it even in a case where there is evidence of a background between the Progress Party and, for example, the Progress Party. lots as Left and Right. I'm not going to comment on that any more. I recommend that the representative take a study on his own. But in this case I just want to say straight out to those who have wondered if there is any difference: there is a difference. The left is for municipalities; we are actually for stronger municipalities; we are for a comprehensive welfare reform that will also strengthen municipalities not only on the health side but also on the school side and on other sides. If someone wants to study a phenomenon that actually undermines local populace, a close-up study of the United Kingdom these days. There, the number of local populace has been cut short. They have been deprived of their duties, and finally the poor Members of Parliament are in trouble, and they must be united about everything, from the hole in the street up to the national level. In addition, when they have a hopeless pay system because everyone in that country has decided that MEPs should not have salary increases, they should only have a check to cover ‘expenses for you second home’, then you get a collapse in the whole system because you don’t believe in what is anchored locally. So it's going to be a seemingly over-simplified version that everything that's difficult has to be solved by a piece price, and the piece price is smart -- it's differentiated according to each and every individual. I wonder what kind of spiritual person – or who it might be – should sit and measure this price. It's going to be a fascinating race. It's probably going to be accompanied by a prescription, so it's legally controlled as well. No, it's that the sense that connects with a government of the people, the sense that connects with the fact that we're citizens and that we belong together, you don't have to abolish it, you don't have to undermine it. The entire Norwegian community is built up by well-being, through school thinking from the bottom up. It's not built up the other way. So for those who have cheated – and now I am asking the representative de Ruiter to follow closely, because he has asked me a lot of lines in this magnificence – I have previously referred to this point, and if he wants to have a written expression for it, he can read the representative Gundersen's glittering comments as the case rapporteur, not to talk about his sparkling good posts here today. So I allow myself the freedom on behalf of both the parties Right and Left to recommend the representative de Ruiter to read this, go home and become wise, because then he understands differences between political parties. It fell so that I felt that I had to take this all the way out here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3654	I get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3657	It was possible for me to see the difference between the Left's view and the Progress Party's view in this matter. This is a proposal that reveals many layers of very many important debates that we might have in other contexts should lead far wider. One has been commented by several, e.g. whether the school should be locally controlled or state-run in a small country such as Norway — perhaps a good debate. It's a broad multiple that he should still be locally controlled, although I'm also among those who think that we'll probably need something clearer government governance. But there's a couple of other things I want to comment on. The first is that I think we have a tendency to exaggerate the importance of funding systems when it comes to how well school we have, what students learn, and how it is there. If we look at the international research literature, it's getting pretty far down on the list of things that actually matter to the contents of the school. The second element that was taken up here, among other things. by the representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen, that was that the experience one has from other countries, in building up a management system of this type, e.g. in the health sector, it requires a very large state bureaucracy for implementation. All funding systems require an implementation capacity, but it will in reality be moving a significant part of the bureaucracy up to the state level. The last point I just wanted to mention is that significant parts of the representative proposal apply to the argument that part of the arrangements that one has put in place in the United States, and that, among other things, is linked to Bush's major school reform, 'No Child Left Behind', works well and is a source of inspiration for this proposal. The sources that are then drawn up are research from the so-called Cato Institute in Washington, D.C., a research institution that is closely linked to the previous US administration, and which was an important premiscible for the political – also an important premiscuous – I have seen through the media, for the Progress Party through visits and contacts. I took a check on the research here. We have a lot of research just on how Charter schools work, and how the effect of this reform has been in the United States. It's cracking research. In summary, however, there is no agreement in the research literature that the strong market incentives introduced have had the effect of increasing learning outcomes in the United States. In a large and broad study, known as meta-search, where one goes through a wide range of international research recently carried out, Charter Schools was very poor when 140 schools were ranked by tools. “Charter Schools” came in about a hundred places when the gallant effective agent, with almost no effect on the teaching of the elephants. If you go to slightly wider and perhaps less politically colored sources in this area, you will find that the reform, and its central features, has not led students to learn more. On the other hand, she is now strongly criticised for having a number of unfortunate incentives, particularly the combination of results and penalties in terms of withdrawing transfers of funds to schools. Now, too, the new administration is changing the course of significant parts of these very areas of school policy. So I think it makes sense that there's a wide majority that rejects this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3673	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3676	I wasn't going to take the floor, but I think the speech from the Council of State was a little strange, because it was primarily about Charter Schools in the United States, and not about the proposal that is being discussed – otherwise a trend today. There's a lot of talk about a lot that's not being treated here. If the Council of State had read the whole proposal and not just what was involved in Charter Schools and the research of the Cato Institute, the Council of State would have noticed that there is one of the very many examples in the proposal for different types of systems that can be seen when developing a new funding system for Norwegian school. Thus, it is not the case that the Progress Party has proposed introducing Charter Schools in Norway. I don't think that's going to happen either. Since both the State Council and the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen mentioned the fatal impact of the ISF scheme on health, bureaucracy, etc., it is therefore that the ISF system operates under the current government and has worked for four years under this government. It can't be so disastrous when this government doesn't have the ability to do anything about it. Then I assume that they are reasonably satisfied with the funding model in the healthcare system. Of course, the progress party would want the ISF to be higher in health services. But the system has thus maintained this government, under SV's watch in the government quarter. I'm glad. That's very good. In other words, with the danger of provoking Doorum to a new post on the ground between the Progress Party and the Left on this issue, the proposal is not, contrary to what Mr Dørum seems to believe, to abolish local democracy, or the right of citizens to engage in municipal politics – rather, on the contrary: we want to make the far more liberal, and we do not think it will be much more liberal with governments who cut the appropriations for the municipal sector, with the result that students get a far worse offer than they are required by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3687	Several have not asked for the floor and the debate on substance. 11 is over. [[See page 3427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3704	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3713	That was a frightening order of speeches today! Let me first begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. It is a topic of major educational policy and social policy importance that is addressed by the proposers in this document. The document sets out six concrete proposals for action to strengthen the basic skills of the adult population. Adults’ right to education to ensure basic skills was introduced in 2000, but the scheme is surprisingly little used. It is a problem both for the individual and for the big community. The ability of individuals to cope reasonably well in an information-intensive modern society is significantly weakened if one cannot, for example, do not. read and write. ==References== Today, 800,000 people in employment are out of work. 40 pst. Of these, also those who have the worst reading skills. The Committee considers that there may be a link between the lack of training over time and the high proportion of disabled people in Norway compared to other countries. Furthermore, the Committee considers that there is a high labour potential in this group, provided that adequate arrangements are put in place for the assessment of residual working capacity, and the Committee points out that education is an important tool for increasing the individual’s ability to work and to return to working life in full or in part. The Committee also noted that the Riksrevision promoted criticism of the Ministry of Knowledge in Document 3:14 for 2007-2008. The National Auditorate wrote, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The audit of the Court of Auditors shows that, overall, significant unsolved tasks related to adult participation in initial training remain.’ The Committee is aware that the Ministry has subsequently initiated certain measures to follow up the referrals of the Riksrevision. The Committee agrees on all the essentials of facts and the importance of future focus on actions that can strengthen the basic skills of the adult population. However, the majority of the Committee, consisting of government parties, refers to Ot.prp. 87 for 2008-2009 and to a forthcoming EEA Communication, which will assess actions in an overall context. The opposition is more impatient and, on its side, stands together for five concrete proposals. The Progress Party and the Right agree on another proposal. I assume that the representatives of the majority and the proposers themselves will supplement the content as necessary. I shall then move on to comment on the one proposal on which the Progress Party stands alone. The above-mentioned criticism from the National Audit Office also points out that one of the reasons for the lack of follow-up and control of the rights of adults to initial training is due to the funding system. Today, municipalities and counties are required to finance initial training for adults, and the Progress Party believes this in itself helps each municipality and state to avoid costs by preventing the publication of adult law. About this, the Riksrevision writes the following: ‘The study shows that there is still a debate on the financing of the tasks related to organisation, information and motivation, which are considered as key prerequisites for implementing primary school law. The study also shows that several municipalities justify a lack of primary school provision that the State has not provided additional resources.’ Of these, the Progress Party points out that the main and most effective measure to ensure a better real opportunity to exercise the right to initial training for adults is State funding of the offer. The proposal of the Progress Party is thus addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3747	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3750	I'm pleased with the increasing focus it's on adults' learning. There is no doubt that skills needs are high among adults. It is estimated that out of 400,000 adults lack basic skills, such as being able to read and write satisfactorily. The working party also shares the concerns of the proposers for a possible link between the lack of basic skills and the relatively high proportion of disabled people in Norway. We also agree that there are major differences in the way municipalities and county councils facilitate the fulfilment of adult education rights. It's a good part that remains before you can say that this works well enough. Our government is working on these issues. The programme of basic labour skills is an important measure in this respect. Important measures are also increased support for study associations, new adult training law and a notified notification of ageing where one will consider actions for, among others. this group in an overall context. The red-green government is doing a lot in this area, but we have to admit that it will take time, and that we also depend on doing a good job locally and regionally. We see that the members of the opposition are disappointed with the Government. It wasn't exactly a bomb. In this case, the opposition probably thinks that attack is the best defense. We get that. The cut-off budget of the Bondevik government contained a strong cut for the study federations. Yeah, cut over 50 million. This meant that one third of the budget was cut in one year. The progress party would go even further and suggested an even bigger cut. Such a policy involves active death aid to the study federations – so it is not just the Progress Party that is too active death aid. Now there are some mitigating circumstances for the Christian People's Party and the Left in that, after they escaped the Right, they have not proposed cutting off the study federations, while both the Right and the Advance Party have consistently used the study federations as balancing posts in each budget of the period – with such a strong cut that it can be considered a dead-end. It is therefore strange that the same batches are so high on the path to a government that is doing something about adult education, while they themselves obviously need adult training, among other things. in the important role played by study associations in the learning of adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3763	I must say that I had expected from the Labour Party representative Freddy de Ruiter, a somewhat more serious attitude to the topic we are now debating. There is a problem that affects 400,000 adults in Norway and is associated with large stigmas. Many people are struggling to seek help, even though they realize that they have a problem. It won't be easier for the representative de Ruiter to try to make a circus debate in Stortinget on a topic that is very important. If you're going to use the most dramatic criteria, there are as many as 950,000 Nordics who have weak reading and writing skills, but it's probably a far too dramatic estimate. Somewhere between 330,000 and 400,000 is probably the right thing. Many adults with the weakest skills don't really see that they have weak skills. The reason for this is simply that they are in professions — in situations — which do not require so much literacy and literacy skills, and they do not notice that they have those problems either. Therefore, they do not notice that they master worse than they should. Then we have a development in society where, in particular, reading requirements are only becoming stronger and stronger, and we are creating a society where two thirds of the population are working very well – reading and writing well, coping with changes in working life – while one third are falling outside. We also know that 45 pst. by women and 40 pst. of men who are in difficulty belong to the group with weak basic skills. When we know, as others have been involved, among other things. the rapporteur, that there is a significant proportion of the workforce currently out of the labour market, we see both there and in other ways how serious this is. The Bondevik government introduced what was then called a New Chance and has today been renamed the Basic Skills Programme in the world of work. It's a very popular program that allows people to get training at their workplaces. The problem is that there is only one of the measures. It doesn't hit those who are out of work, and we have to do it somehow. That is why the Right is promoting the proposals, and we are promoting them together with the other opposition parties. While I remember it, I would like to address the proposals where the Right is co-sponsored with others. I noticed that the representative de Ruiter is trying to say that it has happened a lot since this government took over. The reality is that, as early as the autumn of 2005, I, together with two other representatives, promoted the first proposal to introduce a system of adult skills cards. You can have your skills mapped on a skills card and fill in with skills as you go. A unanimous committee then wanted the government to come back with that matter in Stortinget. It hasn't happened. In the summer of 2007, Erna Solberg sent a letter to the then State Council, Øystein Djupedal, and State Council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, calling for a greater focus on this problem and a national effort. Since then, nothing has happened. Now that we are promoting this proposal, it is precisely because nothing is happening – not because the government is doing many things that are right. I would have liked the government parties in this case to contribute to recognising the seriousness and joining in on the proposals that are being promoted here. There must be a national effort, a effort that must last for more than 10 years in order for there to be some particular pressure in it – and that must be it. There is a need for a national plan in which the municipalities and those of today's county councils with special competence in this area are given some special tasks. In particular, it is important to stress that there has to be consistency between the right of training and the provision of training. Today, only four out of ten municipalities can provide adequate training for adults with poor basic skills. Much of this, of course, is because they do not have the skills to train adults. It's simply because it takes something completely different to train adults than to train children. Among other things, you have to learn a lot of error learning, and things take time. But it's also about that in many small places it'll be quite dramatic if you, for example. have to visit people in high school where your children may go to school to tell them that you have read and write problems. Everyone understands that it can be problematic. I also wanted government parties to be more clearly involved and to support the need to identify the skills of adults outside the labour market, such as adults. are unfit or otherwise outside. It would make a significant contribution to perhaps getting back into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3787	The representative Ie Marie Eriksen Soreide then drew up the proposals she referred to. – On an incuria, the Council of State was advertised as the next speaker. The President will allow the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, to have the floor before the Council of State, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3792	I thank you for that. This is a matter I had initially not intended to take the floor, but there was an incredible lack of respect from the representative de Ruiter regarding the seriousness of the matter of active death aid, and to use it as a funny illustration and an image of the lack of appropriations from the Stortings side to organisations. It is not to show respect either for the matter we are dealing with here, or for the matter that the representative de Ruiter raised in his statement. The matter we're dealing with here also has a deep gravity in it. It's a big taboo not to have basic skills in place, and in respect of those people, I think the debate has to be at a different level here in the Great Britain than what they Ruiter provided. I also want to point out in this case that through the period we have been sitting together in the committee under the red-green regime, we are now getting another group that falls through in this society, that is, all those who drop out of high school. There is also a group that we expect that the Storting must gradually take action to include them in our society in the future. The matter is very serious. I will give tribute to the Right for the way in which the proposals have been put forward. This is a group that needs to be seen. Even if the president didn't, I needed to give some retribution to the representative de Ruiter for the way he handled this in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3807	Proposal providers point to key issues and major societal challenges in the proposals that have been put forward here today. It is true that of the countries in the OECD region, Norway has the lowest number of jobs related to routine manual tasks where there is no need for significant skills, such as: competence from the continuing level. That means that when many people lack basic skills, a lot of people will have trouble being part of the world of work. We also see that this is the case, and not least that it is a significant social division. It is quite right, as the representative Eriksen Soreide said, that over half of those outside the labour market, and for example. social security or social assistance, probably lacking basic skills of different kinds. In addition, basic skills such as reading and writing are not just about participation in the labour market. But participating in society and democracy in an enlarged perspective is a skill that is important for a number of things that make one a full-fledged social participant. That is why the issues are so serious. For this reason, a number of measures have also been taken in recent years. When one goes back a few years, the dishes have been significantly strengthened. Even if these are still discussions, it's marginal in relation to what might be the big challenge, that's that the rights are going to be real. This is why the institutions, Vox and the Education Directorate, who are responsible for following up the offer, will work systematically so that they can be put into practice, and strengthen the information measures, so that more people can know what rights and opportunities they have. Providers need to be better developed and targeted at those who need it. Then it has quite rightly been mentioned from here that it will be working through study organisations and adult training, and that the programme of basic competence in the labour market is now strengthened through two rounds in the budget this year. I just want to say 4 million. The rights of basic skills in the labour market go to those outside the labour market. It is channeled through Nav to the unemployed, and one has a warning that that part should be increased in connection with the reinforcement of Nav. So it's a program that makes something broader. Finally, I would like to say that the permanent training effort for teachers that has now been introduced, also relates to the teacher’s competence attached to the training of adults, which may be relevant to the group we are now talking about. These are very important questions that have to be worked on systematically. I think it's right, as they said here, that it has to work over very many years. We need to have systematic efforts both on offer and to motivate more people to come back to strengthen their basic skills. But I would also like to say that one might have to break some of the taboo that is attached to laboring to writing and reading like the wax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3826	I have to thank the Council of State for at least trying to fix some of the impression that the representative de Ruiter made during his speech. I also hope that the Council of State can confirm in its reply that that form of argument does not belong in such a serious and important matter. My question to the Council of State is related to what is now coming in the expected report of competence, because in Ot.prp. 87 for 2008-2009 on adult education, it is quite right that study associations play a central role. They're probably going to play an even more central role in this particular field in the future, because they have a lot of flexibility that very much of e.g. the municipal offer does not have the same form. However, the question is whether other of the proposals presented in the proposal for a representative may be relevant to the forthcoming communication of competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3833	I'm going to say that we'll come back to the questions about what's coming up here, in the competence message when it's presented. But I can't say here and now what measures we're going with there, and what discussions we're going with. But the fields we've now discussed, both device, information work, rights and real-time competence assessment, are all the questions that we want to come back to in connection with the competence message. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3838	I also asked the Council of State if he could be so kind as to confirm that the form of debate that the representative de Ruiter led in this matter does not exactly belong in such a serious matter. Can the Council just say something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3843	I can say on behalf of the Government and all the government parties that we take these questions very seriously. So well, I know the representative de Ruiter that I know that the same is true of him. He has been very involved in these questions in many contexts, is busy with them and has knowledge of them. I know that everyone in the government and all our representatives take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3848	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3853	When you have a bad case, you may tend to become a little personal, a little rhetorical, etc. I feel that has happened in this case. What has been raised above any doubt is that when we took over, it contained a proposal to cut one third of the annual budgets of the study federations. It would have led to a guided liquidation of most. During the period, the Right Party and the Advance Party have consistently used the study federations as balancing item. It can go into and see in all the budgetary positions to varying degrees, with the Progress Party as the one who has proposed the greatest cuts. Therefore, it is a bit strange to hear the representative Eriksen Soreide say that the study associations will now have a central role. At least we haven't noticed anything about that when we looked at the Right Budget proposal in the period. So who's serious or unprofessional here is probably the eyes that see, but for the Labour Party's sake, we're most concerned with politics and results. Unfortunately, the results of the opposition here are so daunting that you have to use quite powerful lye, powerful words and powerful rhetoric and images to get it out. Then, of course, we agree that this is a problem that we are all taking seriously. There are hundreds of thousands of adults who don't have basic skills. There I think we have a common interest in doing a job, and no one disagrees. Therefore, it became a little strange to experience such a strong criticism in the comments of the opposition – when someone knows what the opposition has done here, among other things. in relation to the study associations, which are just serving some of the groups we are so busy helping. At least we have results to point to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3862	As rapporteur of the case, I have to say that I was a little surprised at the posts of the representative de Ruiter – again! I had actually expected him to take the signals from all the other speakers and lay down a little flat and say that he might go a little ‘overboard’ in the main post. That's what they chose Ruiters not to do. Fortunately, everyone else has pointed to the seriousness of the issues raised by the proposers, with which the opposition is largely united and will do something concrete. The Council of State has also very clearly indicated that he will come back to an assessment of some of these proposals in the notification. Then I think it is sad that the representative de Ruiter gets such a 'hang-up' on the study associations alone. These serious questions are about far, far more than the study associations, and I had hoped that the representative de Ruiter had taken a closer look at the proposals. I, as the rapporteur-in-Office, have done so, and it is very important points made by the rapporteurs. I hope those Ruiters don't set a new standard now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3869	I didn't intend to take the word either, but I have to say that we have to be able to keep some things a little separate here. The study federations represent one area of the whole problem. This is a major problem involving 350,000 adults who do not have the necessary basic skills to function in society. If the job they're in is lost, they probably end up in disability statistics, and we've just been told how extensive that problem is. The reality of this is that we made a 2005 proposal on skills cards and that a programme was to be launched to increase the basic skills of the part of the adult population that is missing. Then we were promised a case of our own. Nothing happened. Then we wrote letters in 2007 to get a little bit of speed on it. We got a nice answer, but nothing happened. Then we put forward a proposal now, and then Freddy de Ruiter comes with such an article as he did. Then I'm starting to wonder if it's at all committed to the problem. I have to be allowed to ask that question -- whether it really is commitment. In fact, in my own municipality we have a quite well-functioning training centre. When I meet some of the students who either because of bullying or because of dyslexia or what it should be, have not got the basic skills, and who then meet people who know what adult education is about, who know how to deal with those issues, it's a pretty strong experience to see the personal victory it is for the individual, and not least what savings you have actually made for society by being able to raise them up in education. There is a huge problem when – as our country today reports – four out of ten municipalities do not have a single offer for this group. It's about 350,000 Nordics, and I have to say that the government has not at all shown the challenge it should be paying attention to. I hope they get together for the last two weeks, the Stortinget is together, at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3882	The representative de Ruiter has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3885	I notice that the opposition is more indignant about my person than about the big problem. But I would like to repeat what I actually said in my post, so that nothing is misunderstood. It was said by the representative, Anundsen, that I was just talking about a study association. That's not true. Among other things, I said: that this government is working on these issues. Programme of basic labour skills is an important measure in this respect, as well as increasing support for the study federations, new adult training law and a notified growth report that will assess actions for, among others. this group in an overall context. I could also spend a lot of time talking about non-response and how we have worked on the issue of non-response, early efforts, etc. So I said a lot different, but it looks like I hit the nail on my head when it comes to the studio, and there's someone sitting here with a little bad conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3894	I took the word to keep up some perspectives, because sometimes I think we're going to be a little bit rusty with each other. There is no doubt that Kristin Clement in his time, and later Right, has had a deep commitment to the many hundreds of thousands of adults who cannot read and write. There's no doubt about it. So we know that we have a little bit different engagement in politics, and some areas we're better at than others. There's nothing embarrassing at all, that's just the way it is. When the theme comes up, I will actually do something as special as defending another party, because that party has had pressure on that matter. I just think that's what we're going to take over. What's probably happened to me, and I'm sorry I've spent too long to understand, is how embarrassing it is to be an adult person in a society like the Norwegian one per. today and be functionally illiterate. I've probably understood with the help of an auxiliary motor, I've understood through my life, how dyslexics feel, I've understood how little you understand dyslexics, but I now suddenly understand what it's like for those who are functional illiterates. There is no doubt that we are facing a phenomenon that is, of course, financial, but the financial issue is much larger than the study federation, it is quite significant. Of course, it is also so significant that it calls for solutions that others here have mentioned, for example.How can you cooperate in a small context in an intermunicipal way, so that people don't necessarily have to expose themselves? There are a lot of solutions we need to look for. I think that the Storting should take along the reflection that we shared with each other when we had the bullying debate here. Then we showed a ability and a willingness to find something that was important. I think we should do that in this area as well. Since I myself have had some areas in my life where I have to say on my own that it took me a while before I was grown up enough to know what I was doing, I have some sympathy with others who are also struggling immediately. As elected representatives, we should be very close to those who have different challenges in life. I think this matter is serious, and I fully agree that this debate – the main gravity – has taken care of that very thing. But I felt the need to take the word to emphasize it in a proper way, and then I felt the need to give recognition to political partners, but also competitors, because they actually have a deep and genuine commitment, which has been conducted for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3910	Sometimes I think some people have to have it in Southern. It is now actually not a matter of a study association, it is not a matter of a course in pottery heeling. This is something completely different, this is serious, this goes on very many who actually live in some kind of parallel world, who don't have the ability to participate in the ordinary. Then it becomes too much when someone almost stands with a flir around his mouth and bullies this group. - It was Southern.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3915	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3427]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3932	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3941	I would also like to begin this time as rapporteur of the case by thanking the Committee on Cooperation on an important matter and for the somewhat surprising task of the rapporteur-general. The proposers promote six concrete proposals to improve the conditions for occupational training and empowerment for workers. Proposals put forward proposals in the context of the financial crisis in the world and believe that the proposals will be among the contributions to reduce the impact of the financial crisis on Norway. It is a very commendable initiative on the part of the proposers, and I believe that they themselves will give details of each proposal. However, the Committee has welcomed the intention of the proposals and believes that raising skills through both the regular training system and various occupational training schemes are important instruments for reducing the level of demand deficit and increasing unemployment. In particular, it is worth noting that the majority of the Committee also considers that it is possible to consider extending the tax FUNN scheme to certain forms of intra-corporate training, but sees that this may have some unfortunate aspects. I assume that the Government will look at this issue in an appropriate manner, following a recommendation from the majority of the Committee, even if the proposal is voted down here today. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Right, also considers it a matter for the school owner to facilitate the exploitation of the competence of persons who are wholly or partly on leave or unemployed in secondary education. It may, in the opinion of the Committee, be implemented within the framework of current legislation. The Committee also agrees that flexible laying down rules are an important measure to ensure better operational space for businesses. The government has proposed more flexible permitting rules, which will allow for permitting down to 40 pst. position. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe this should be further developed, so that one can permit down to 20 pst. I am now going to comment on the position of the Progress Party on the proposal for a representative. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports all the proposals, with one exception. We see the proposals as important measures that should be implemented with a view to making one of many contributions to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and help maintain corporate competence. In particular, it is important to ensure greater flexibility in the regulation of leavencies while providing good incentives for the conduct of in-company training. The non-participating proposal of the Progress Party is the revised proposal on appropriations for the programme of basic competences in the labour market. The background is that, in our opinion, such a proposal falls within the scope of the revised national budget. The revised national budget is being dealt with in the Grand Duchy right now, and the Progress Party seems a bit messy to ask the Government to propose that appropriations itself may be promoted in the context of the revised national budget. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1–5 and draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party No. 7th@item: inlistbox The vote will be taken at the next voting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3962	Then the representative Anders Anundsen drew up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3965	Government parties need to briefly justify their views on these proposals, in addition to what appears in the suspension. First, however, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the good and effective work he has done on this proposal. In order to meet the labour market challenges arising from the financial crisis, the Government is pursuing an active labour market policy. In particular, it is important to avoid increased leave leading to long leave periods for the individual. One of the main objectives of the Nav reform is to increase work and activity and reduce social benefits. The labour and welfare management must also ensure the functioning of the income protection system. The unemployed are entitled to a daily allowance, and they will receive it quickly. So some comments on the proposals: the first proposal involves halving the proportion of businesses to increase the skills of employees. At present, intra-corporate training is provided in the form of training grants to the enterprise for the costs of training and grants for wage costs to the participant. The rules for intra-company training clearly distinguish between support for general and specific training. The proposal does not identify which of these types of training is requested by the proposers. In addition, the EU has set maximum limits for the support that can be provided through intra-corporate training. Support for specific training is regulated by percentage according to the size of the enterprise. In the case of making the permitting arrangements more flexible, so that 20 pst. Permitting is made possible in practice, we are sceptical about this. From 1 July the Government will provide that the requirement for working time reductions shall be 40 pst. in the case of permitted persons. If the requirement to reduce working time is reduced to 20 pst., the total number of workers could be compensated for by a very high level of compensation in the event of reduced work. He/she will then be able to receive full pay four days a week and in addition more than 60 pst. daily allowances for the last day. There will then be a risk that some employers and employees will comply with such partial leave. Then a proposal for the TaxFUNN and the possibilities to include projects in a company or between companies, providing increased competence, is promoted. Due to the design of State aid legislation, it will not now be possible to include these types of projects in the tax FUNN, so that it may need to be further assessed. There are also today several schemes that are likely to respond to the same needs of businesses. Furthermore, it is proposed that competent staff should be taught in secondary schools. There is currently nothing to prevent the employee from taking other work during the period of leave, for example: secondary education, during the period of leave. It follows from the conditions for entitlement to the daily allowance that you are willing to take another job. It is also proposed to increase the allocation of basic labour skills. To that end, in recent years, the Government has provided for a strong stepping-up of the Programme of Basic Skills in the labour market in order to give job seekers and workers greater opportunity to acquire the skills deemed necessary in modern working life. This year, as a whole of the crisis packages and the draft revised national budget, 80 million will be allocated. available for basic labour skills, which is more than a doubling of the 2008 effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e3984	It is the financial crisis and the challenges it has given us, which was the background to the proposal. That crisis is quite big. I don't think we have yet – in the near future – taken on board what challenges it's going to give us, even though it may seem as if the world is stabilizing a bit. It gives us enormous challenges, especially when it comes to building skills. Norway has a very high degree of freedom of action in the face of the crisis. We are constantly hearing from the fact that the crisis measures already in place are among the largest in the world. That is not quite right, for countries like China and the United States have taken far greater action than Norway has done. However, compared to countries in Europe, very strong instruments have been taken to overcome the crisis. The proposals made in the document are aimed at strengthening Norway’s response to this crisis. In-house training I think is a very effective way both to reach employees and to increase the level of skills in Business Norway. There's the need very much. I myself have helped to initiate some of these arrangements and know how much the need is. The proportion of ownership, especially in times now, can be quite a big obstacle to getting the right projects in the company started. This is why we are proposing a national strategy to launch in-house training, including in-house training. by lowering the prostheses. We've read a lot about the permit rules. An overall Enterprise Norway has called for greater flexibility in the rules of leave, as the situation is now. We have rules of leave that are probably made for a completely different challenge than the one we're up against right now. It is likely that more thought has to be given to avoiding companies that do not evolve as they wish to lock in the workforce. Now maybe the challenge is not to send too many of the companies we have, and to keep them in the companies to further develop their skills. These are measures that can easily be reversed if the state of the economy changes. So let's do it with the Treasure Fund. Clearly, the financial crisis provides an opportunity to also test whether tax has an impact on this type of challenge. There is no doubt that SkattenFUNN is primarily intended for research and development, but it would not hurt to find out whether the focus on training and competence could be raised by providing opportunities for either single companies or enterprises in cooperation, when the projects are quality assured. So to reverse the tightening up of labour rent legislation between production companies. The introduction of such a restriction was probably motivated by the fear of social dumping. But social dumping should be stopped in completely different ways than reducing the flexibility of the labour market we have. In this respect, potentially many manufacturing companies may either have to permit or dismiss more employees than should be strictly necessary. So such a reversal should definitely be in place. As far as school and business are concerned, we know what challenges we have. It's obvious that it's a school owner's task, but what we want to focus on is if not the challenge is so big that it should simply develop a national strategy to get it speeded up. The last relates to additional appropriations for the BKA. We know it's about 137 million. kr to BKA, and that the allocation on the State budget is far from satisfactory in relation to the need out there. And with reference to the discussion in the previous case, it might be through the company that it gives a very good opportunity to reach that group. I'm addressing proposal No. 6 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4005	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4008	I thank the President-in-Office for the job. The measures that we can now manage to put in place, which can lead to the strengthening of the financial crisis, are of fundamental importance to us in the Christian People's Party. It's great that the parties are now going through social areas by community area and seeing how we can take action in a number of areas that will make us stronger as a nation. There is no doubt that flexibility is needed, flexibility is needed, and there needs to be a commitment to competence, not only to try to balance the wave valley into which the financial crisis has led us, but also to strengthen us as a nation in terms of skills building, which can be a strength for us in the future. Flexibility in combination with in-house training is a good thing, not only for enterprises, but also for individuals who experience the situation. That is why we want to support many of the proposals in the case. We also want to have an assessment of halving the proportion of enterprises involved in intra-corporate training and therefore promote proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4019	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4022	It is personally a little strange at the end of a big career to meet the theme of unemployment. I say it that way because I belong to a generation that has grown up with it, directly into life. So this I haven't had to learn; this I know nothing about. That is why I am listening to all the suggestions that can help. I perceive that what is the title of all the proposals that have been put forward here today is to think of the phenomenon enterprise – a place where someone owns something and where someone works. In various ways, I think that the proposers have made such proposals, and that is why I have also chosen to be part of them all the way. I've learned through my own life that thinking more flexibility initially might be seen as promoting something other than what you believe in. Very often there are other solutions when owners are responsible and proper. It is true that the vast majority of owners in Norway are – not everyone is – so the flexibility contained in the first proposal, on permitting, I think, is a good proposal. I think testing Tax is also right in this context, because we know that research is going down. But using it this way is good, also imagining that there are competent employees. In connection with the research report, we have been sitting in the committee and have heard that competent professionals in Norwegian industrial establishments are becoming vacant. And how in the world can people be used? Yes, we know that we need professionals for education and in many other contexts. So I think it's a lot and a lot different to try to capture a compound situation. Then it also strikes me that in what Norway I have grown up in, where I never became a socialist, but where I have nevertheless been happy in the expression ‘we build the country’, we are suddenly living in a situation where most of us do not notice this financial crisis into life. But because I have inside my head what it's like for those who have noticed it once, I also have an emotional notion of what it's like. It makes me very listening to all the suggestions that might be contributing, being constructive and being real, because I think it's very important to be. I don't want to insinuate that someone isn't. On the contrary, I think everyone has a deep commitment to it. With my political background, I have a very great will and ability to listen to it being in a business, owning a business, working in a business. I perceive that all the suggestions that have been made here go right into it, and are an attempt to meet it properly. In this way, financial policy, which is a topic for all of us, has become an integral part of what has to do with competence, research, education and innovation. I just took the word to say this, and also because I think in some other matters tonight we have been involved in serious things that relate to people's lives. It's about adults who can't read and write. We've also had one thing about bullying. In many ways we're in an education committee, but then we get right into the social spinal cord, on the social nerve, which makes us something. Since the social spinal cord may be my main driving force in everything I've done in politics, I felt the need for this little confession one evening, also to promote a good cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4041	There are again important questions raised by the proposers here, and I would like to make it clear that several of the proposals are within the remit of other government councils, but I answer on behalf of the Government and have consulted me with both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The economic downturn that we're now part of is perhaps the strongest downturn we've seen on this side of the Second World War. For this reason, the Government has also taken proportionate measures, in the first round, by making the financial market work as fully as possible, by reducing interest rates, in the second round, through extensive measures to ensure that the jobs it has are kept as much as possible, whether in the private sector or in the public sector, and, of course, in what one can call a third round through an extensive commitment to competence. Competence efforts have been made to both reduce the number of unemployed people, provide an alternative for those who are unemployed, and, in the long term, increase access to the labour market and increase the level of competence in society. Thus, there is a background for some of the measures of different types that have been implemented. So we have now seen in the revised national budget an extensive investment in several universities in the higher education sector. We have strengthened the Programme of Basic Competence in Work by 40 million. kr. We've got an extra apprentice proposal. We have focused more on nutrition and other measures that, in total, have the means to strengthen companies' work on empowerment, to strengthen continuing education and training, and the ordinary university and higher education sectors in order to put more emphasis on competences. When it comes to the proposals, I will refer you to the representative, Kernli, where he went through a series of questions related to them. There have been recently implemented changes to the permitting legislation in several areas that the Government of my country strengthens the rules and makes them more flexible. I would also like to refer to Kernli's comments when it comes to the TaxFUNN scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4055	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3428]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4068	Then Stortinget will vote on the case no. 1-13 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4075	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4-11, by Mr Tybring-Gjedde, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 12, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 13 and 14, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4095	Dagrun Eriksen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4098	It is only for the vote: by reference to case No. 7th report on development, which we shall vote on later, is a proposal in line with proposal No. 13 in this case. That is why we are drawing proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4103	Dagrun Eriksen has then drawn proposal No. 13, and it shall be met. There will be a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate its own assessment of the activities of companies in the DRC, assessed against the ethical guidelines of the State Pension Fund – Foreign.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4119	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the right and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in the context of the next evaluation of the State Pension Fund — Foreign Affairs, asks that an examination be made of alternative ways of organising the Fund, including the question of whether it should continue to be one or more funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4133	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-11, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an assessment and assessment of whether there are more appropriate ways to organise the management of the State pension fund — Foreign, including whether the management of the State pension fund — Foreign should be maintained in the Bank of Norway, and to assess possible alternatives’. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess the possibility of setting up several separate administrative funds, possibly with different mandates and different risk profiles.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explore alternative investment opportunities for the State Pension Fund – Foreign, with a view to reducing risk.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to explore the possibility of establishing a Norwegian capital management environment in the light of the investments made through the State pension fund – Foreign. This can preferably be done by requiring a non-resident management company to establish or extend its Norwegian business.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to instruct the Bank of Norway to enter into working arrangements with its administrators for the future, which also include downside bonuses. This shall also apply to external AIFMs with which NBIM agrees.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to establish the following investment strategy for the State Pension Fund – Foreign: Shares 40 pst. [[35 p.m. – 45 pst.]] [[45 p.m. – 55 pst.]] [[5 pst. – 15 pst.]] Debt securities 50 pst. Property It is assumed that Norway’s Bank takes into account the development of value on the world’s stock exchanges and that the process is not initiated until the markets have reopened and markets have stabilised.’» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the creation of an investment fund aimed at investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. Through its activities, the Fund must underpin Norway’s position as an energy nation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the enterprises currently excluded from the State pension fund – Foreign investment portfolio based on rigorous practices of the ethical guidelines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4198	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the income of the State pension fund — Foreign is reported according to costs under Global Investment Performance Standards [[GPS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4212	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to speed up the alerted review of the active administration, and to present this as its own case in the Stortinge during the autumn of 2009.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to set a framework for the active management of the State pension fund — Foreign investment which limits such management to what is strictly necessary for commercial reasons until a final decision is taken on the future level of active management.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4249	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left. The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls for the Riksaudition to conduct a specific study on the management of the State pension fund — Foreign is in line with the investment strategy and the decisions, assumptions and objectives resulting from the Storting decision, as set out in paragraph 1. [[SPU]] § 9 of Law 7 May 2004 No. 21 on the Riksrevisionen’.» Alternatives are proposed between this proposal and the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4276	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left motion No. 4, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 5, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asked the Government to investigate a system of business deductions for self-employed workers and to present this to the Stortinget in the context of the 2010 State Budget.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4307	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to increase the tax deduction for the contribution pension to 5 pst. for income between 1 and 6 G and to 8 pst. for income between 6 and 12 G for individual enterprises.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4321	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to consider applying the minimum deduction also to individual enterprises, considering, where appropriate, that the tax relief contained in the minimum deduction is also applicable to individual enterprises in the form of an entrepreneurial deduction.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4335	As an alternative, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a greater degree of equal treatment for individuals with employment with regard to social rights in the face of popular interest. This must be seen in terms of funding and the possibility of voluntary membership.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a review with a view to greater equal treatment of individual undertakings in respect of employment in respect of other fiscal conditions and the possibility of collateral in the event of unforeseen events.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4365	During the debate Per Ove Width presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, which reads: ‘St.prp. No 36 New fighter aircraft to the Defence Force are returned to the Government asking to present a much better, more thorough and more sound decision-making basis for the Storting, where the two alternatives have been evaluated against each other costly and militarily.» [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4438	During the debate, Dagfinn Højbrätten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and submit proposals for the creation of its own investment fund or programme, with an investment framework of approximately 10 billion. crowns for the promotion of nutrient development in poor countries in sub-Saharan Africa and in south- and south-east Asia.’» The voting boards showed that there were 65 votes against and 38 votes in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.02.27]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4450	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4455	This rejected the proposal by 66 votes to 37.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4473	During the debate, Anders Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the provisions of the Training Act on the expulsion of students, so that the teacher can decide on the expulsion in individual hours of students who violate the Rules of Procedure. For further expulsion, the principal shall continue to decide on expulsion.’;» Alternatively, between the proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4498	During the debate, Anders Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative changes in order to make written instruction and examination in page goals optional for the entire basic training, and to offer it as an optional subject. Oral secondary education, dialectic teaching and literary and cultural knowledge continue to be part of the compulsory Norwegian education.» Alternatively, between the proposal and the referral by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4524	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-4, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 5, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a system of bullying agents in each State.’ The voting boards showed that 92 votes were cast against and 11 votes in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.05.38]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4548	President! I voted incorrectly now as well. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4553	This rejected the proposal by 93 votes to 10. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adopt national instructions to school owners on how bullying should be forced out of a school if he is persistently bullying others. If a change to the Training Act is required, a separate legislative proposal is made to this effect.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to ensure that bullying victims are effectively entitled to compensation when the school owner has failed in his/her responsibilities. It is assessed whether the basis of liability should be objective.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up its own school representative who will also be responsible for the rights of bullied students towards the school owner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4579	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the government to take information measures to school owners on how to combat bullying through consistent use of school regulations and other awareness-raising measures, both in acting/role games, information measures and parental assistance.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4608	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-4, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to transfer the financial responsibility for initial training to the State. The initial training funding system shall be based on the fact that a substantial proportion of the transfers to each educational institution are based on a differentiated unit price.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to introduce national free school choices throughout initial training.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to allow the free establishment of schools entitled to government grants.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4648	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the supervisory role of the state in the school and to brief the Government on the appropriateness of the supervisory role and whether this role is adequately exercised.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4666	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 6, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party There will be a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a State funding scheme for the provision of education for adults at primary and/or secondary school level.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4692	There will be a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national plan in which municipalities and current county councils with special competence are given a national responsibility to train adults with a lack of basic skills. These municipalities will receive additional appropriations for this responsibility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4706	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a national initiative on adults with a lack of basic skills. The bet shall extend over a period of 10 years.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that there is consistency between the training rights of adults and the training provision of this group.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen its teaching skills in adult education.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that those who are outside the labour market and who are provided with the help of public authorities are automatically offered basic skills mapping.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch a campaign to help reduce the stigma associated with the lack of basic skills, so that more adults are seeking help.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4757	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 4 and 5, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposal No. 6, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 7, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 6 is included on page 3 of the configuration, while proposal No. 7 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There will be a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to increase the allocation of the basic labour skills programme by at least 100 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4788	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 4 and 5, from the Prom, right and left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a national strategy to enhance the competence of employees by strengthening the system of in-house training, inter alia. by halving the proportion of holdings.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to reverse the tightening of the legislation on the hire of workers between production establishments described in the Innst. O. No 92 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4809	There will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a national strategy to enhance the competence of employees by strengthening the system of in-house training, inter alia. by considering halving the proportion of holdings.» The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4825	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater flexibility in the rules on leave to allow 20 per cent leave in practice and to be combined with in-house training.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the inclusion in the Tax Fund or in a similar type of tax deduction of quality-secured projects in the enterprise or between enterprises locally providing enhanced competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to look at a system in which competent staff who are at risk of leave or dismissal may contribute to their peak competence in or associated with secondary education, which will strengthen Norway’s exit from the crisis.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08.ana.ud2315e4943	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - That's not what happened.
