ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e35	Honourable co-representatives! Former employee of the Workers' Party Åsa Solberg Iversen is dead, almost 80 years old. Åsa Solberg Iversen was born in Overhalla, northern Trondelag, but lived in Eastfold much of his adult life. She was elected to the Municipal Council in Kråkerøy in 1971 and was there for two periods. For some years she was a personal secretary in the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Councils of State of Sonja Ludvigsen and Tor Halvorsen. In 1976, she was employed as the first female political adviser in the Workers' Party's large-scale group. After many years as alternate to the Stortinget from Østfold, Åsa Solberg Iversen moved up as permanent representative on June 27, 1982. She was a member of the Justice, Defence and Agriculture Committee. Åsa Solberg Iversen was a delegate to the 1985 UN General Assembly. From 1985 to 1989 she was a member of the Great Britain delegation to the Nordic Council. She sat on the Stortinget until 1993. Åsa Solberg Iversen stressed being a popular politician. When she joined the Justice Committee, she brought this programme statement to the Eastfold Post: ‘I accept that we have laws to govern society, but the laws are not going to put people's wheels on. So they shall be for the good of the people, and not hinder them in a normal life." Åsa Solberg Iversen was also interested in international politics. When she was interviewed on the 60th birthday in 1989 by the newspaper Democraten, it was the general international situation she wanted to talk about. She expressed great joy over the relaxation of the time between East and West. She honoured NATO and expressed great concern about developments in the Middle East. Otherwise, there were health and social policies, housing and employment she was particularly concerned about. She was a faithful and socially committed trust woman for the Workers' Party as many, both inside and outside the party, will be remembered with gratitude and joy. Åsa Solberg Iversen showed a rare concern and concern for other people, for co-representatives and for employees at Stortinget. Everyone was happy in her. Colleagues would like to speak of her as the good man from Crooker Island. She was also an active trustee in the party organisation, in her youth as a member of the board of Mo AUL, Chairman of the Helgeland AUF, later as Secretary and Head of the Kråkerøy Workers' Party and as a member of the board of the Østfold Workers' Party. She was a total maid and strongly involved in the abstinence. After Åsa Solberg Iversen finished at Stortinget, she continued her engagement both in the abstinence and the party locally. Until her age demanded, she was actively involved in the affairs and the lot she had throughout her life had such a burning commitment to. We remember Åsa Solberg Iversen for her work on the Stortinget and brighten peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e66	The representatives of Ågot Valle, Berit Brørby, Heikki Holmås, Erling Sande and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Eirin Kristin Sund from 24 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, Unn Therese O. Sørensen and Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen, are invited to meet during the leave period. Unn Therese O. Sørensen is elected to the Lamentation for the time she meets the representative of Eirin Kristin Sund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e107	Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e113	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e118	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e121	On behalf of Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I will make a proposal for better follow-up and protection for those living in hiding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e127	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e144	Within the subject area there is a great diversity of education. They are characterised by professionalism, shortness, up to a half-to-two-year period and are flexible in meeting the needs of the labour market. Education is at the level of secondary education. So it's based on secondary education, but at the same time it's outside the ordinary university and higher education system. It contributes to a more flexible education system, with more varied opportunities. It is a good option for many who, for various reasons, do not want to take their academic education through the university and higher education systems. The previous government ensured that vocational education and training received its own legal protection which resulted in equality of vocational education and training with traditional academic education and training as a matter of law. The Act entered into force on June 2003. The law established a system for the recognition of vocational education and training under the auspices of NOCUT. Law regulation also helped to provide the vocational schools with a natural and stable place in the Norwegian education system. At the same time, it must be emphasised that the duration of the proceedings in NOKUT is often long – and it is too long. This concerns in particular the flexibility required by vocational training in order to meet changing needs in the labour market. The possibility for providers to set up and close specialist courses in specific disciplines without further approval from NOKUT contributes to some more flexibility, but still does not prove sufficient. To the right, it is important to ensure diversity and freedom of choice in the school system. Professional schools are an important opportunity to achieve this. At the same time, vocational schools have so far demonstrated a high degree of flexibility, adaptability and adaptability to the needs of working and social life for various forms of vocational higher education of varying lengths. For the Right, the quality of all education is another main objective. Without qualitatively good vocational education, we do not guarantee the needs of the working life or the needs and wishes of the students. Flexibility in the vocational school system is important. Education and schools must be able to be established and completed according to changing skills and capacity needs in the labour market. Professional schools have experience in rapidly developing new offers in cooperation with industry. The schools are also very flexible and can quickly turn around to set up new offers at short notice. The implementation can be adapted to the needs of the students, can be taken full-time, part-time and can be done online. In today's situation, vocational schools can help increase the competence of individuals so that more people can contribute to the enterprises and to the knowledge-based working life to come out of the economic crisis. It is important to focus on both top skills and at a high international level and at the same time on a broad and general enhancement of labour skills. This is an excellent opportunity to provide more opportunities for learning. At the same time, there is a good opportunity for broader groups to take on the continuing training and skills they want, as well as what they already have. Norway is going to have a shortage of wise heads in the years to come. So that's the reason we have now, pretty golden to give more wise heads. Vocational education is a practical and vocational education developed in close cooperation with industry. These offers meet current skills needs in a wide range of disciplines, both within established sectors such as: health, construction, offshore and electro and new industries such as ICT and multimedia design. In addition, there are a number of technical school services in the areas of administration, accounting, logistics, travel, design, media, communication and marketing. The offer is used both by young people who come from high school and by good adults who want to build on existing skills or re-train to a new profession. Especially in times of increasing unemployment, there is a need for re-training or accommodating skills for a very large number of people. Schools can play a very important role here. We see a tendency for more and more people to choose to take vocational specialisation directly after higher education. In a demanding labour market, it can be an alternative for newly educated academics who do not get a job. Vocational training is therefore very well suited as an instrument for re-training the labour force in recessions. Business will then have access to the skills required to be competitive, meet new challenges and increase company value creation. From the autumn of 2009, when health and social sciences are funded, only a quarter of the vocational school provision will still be funded. Historically, the technical vocational schools have received funding, but the sum of this means that vocational education is quite inaccessible to most people. The weak student base weakens the ability of vocational schools to further develop existing offers and develop new ones. An investment in vocational training will therefore be an effective investment in retraining workers to the future needs of industry. I also remember that we still have debates in this room that higher education is – and should be – free of charge. Then it's pretty funny that the offer that represents tertiary education, which is also based on secondary education, and which is an alternative to higher education at universities and colleges, is not. When responsibility for funding is transferred to the county councils – to the major protests of the colleges – it is an example that the government probably does not take the school battle sufficiently seriously. Why should vocational schools, as the only tertiary education, be financed from municipal rather than government budgets? It violates the education funding system in Norway. Primary education, i.e. primary and secondary education, takes away municipalities and municipalities. Secondary education, which is also included here, takes the counties, and tertiary education takes the state level, universities and colleges, while the vocational schools, which are thus legally guaranteed a place in the same education system, are to be financed in a completely different way and over budgets entirely different from those of tertiary education. Then, of course, it is more difficult for the vocational schools to market their place as an independent alternative to higher education. It is also the case that the county councils – in scarce budgets – will of course need to give priority to secondary education and other statutory tasks rather than to vocational education. Five years have passed since the Stortinget specified that it was important to provide the vocational schools with safe frameworks and economic predictability, but still little has happened. This is a sin, because it helps to maintain a bias in education law. When Stortinget treated Ot.prp. No 37 for 2006-2007, on the Law on Changes in the Law on Secondary Education, it was necessary to draw up a new law to provide a legal framework for schools unable to comply with the Law on Vocational Education or the Law on Private Schools to ensure public funding for schools after the end of the transitional period in July 2010. It was a prerequisite for the Government to present this legal work during this majority period. This has not yet happened, and it should be put in place as soon as possible. Experience shows that post-secondary students are more targeted and have a significantly higher percentage of implementation than students in higher education. Within universities and higher education institutions, some studies are as high as 30 pst. One of the main causes of non-response is incorrect selection. Many young people want practical education, but do not currently have access to it, for example: vocational education, at an affordable cost. The result is often that they end up in a higher education that does not correspond to the wishes and needs of the students, nor to the ambitions they actually had. The result is often non-response. Society does not have access to the competences we need. It is absolutely necessary that today's government realise that a stable and predictable funding system is very important both to make vocational education visible as a real alternative and an equivalent alternative to higher education and to ensure that students who want to choose vocational education have access to a education system that is not within the ordinary university and higher education system. My question that ends the interpellation is what the Council of State will do to ensure that the vocational schools become a real alternative to other higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e174	I thank you for the opportunity to say something about the colleges, and I share many of the interpellant's views on the importance and necessity of the vocational schools, not least in the time we are in now. The aim of the Trade School Act is to ensure high-quality vocational education through an official recognition system, where NOCUT is the recognition body. The law applies to the provider of vocational school education and does not distinguish between public and private vocational school providers in the case of recognition. On the other hand, it distinguishes between authorisation and public funding. Recognition as a post-secondary education is a prerequisite for the receipt of government grants, but there is no entitlement to such recognition. As of 2008, a total of 937 specialist school offers were approved by NOKUT. Vocational education is defined as a shorter vocational education at tertiary level, i.e. it requires completion and passing of secondary education. As you can see, it's in higher education, but it doesn't give a student score. Furthermore, vocational education has more stringent requirements for relevance to working life than higher education has. It is an important education offer for those who want to get out of work quickly. And as the interpellant was about, the vocational education is dominated by private providers. The current financial instrument referred to in the Act is a framework State grant scheme. The law is based on the fact that the provision of vocational education and training is primarily guided by the labour demand for skilled labour, but that government grants may be granted for specific priority courses such as: technical and health and social education, both of which are quite large training provision in the vocational schools. Today, technical and vocational education in health and social sciences is the main source of state subsidies. Vocational technical education is currently being conducted in the county and counties receive grants for them from the state. The grant is calculated on the basis of the county reporting of student numbers to the Ministry of Knowledge. The counties themselves are responsible for the final distribution of individual courses. With regard to the administration of grants to vocational schools in the whole and social field, this is done today through the Ministry of Health and Welfare, with which the Ministry of Knowledge cooperates in these matters. Responsibility for the operation and financing of vocational education is transferred to the county councils with the administrative reform. It's going to happen per. 1 January 2010. The counties will have good conditions for prioritising and adapting this type of training to regional employment and to regional skills needs. In this context, the Storting also concluded that the new regions should be financed through framework transfers and tax, i.e. free revenues – this precisely to ensure the regions’ capacity to manage their tasks in line with the needs of the regions. The county councils are currently responsible for secondary education, as mentioned in the interpellant, and adult education. Vocational education is a natural addition of vocational education from secondary school. Thus, vocational schools become an important link between school and working life. I am convinced that the county councils here have a very good starting point to see just this connection between education and working life, and that they can also link it to important adult training offers. I would also like to make it clear that the sector responsibility for vocational education will remain in the Ministry of Knowledge, even after the transfer of operational and financial responsibility, in the same way as for primary and secondary education. But there will be a close dialogue here with the county councils on the development of vocational education policy. It will also provide for a research-based evaluation of the results and experiences of the task transfer. A State instrument to help ensure that vocational schools remain a real alternative to higher education is the so-called qualification framework. The Ministry will soon establish a qualification framework with learning outcomes descriptions for the different levels of higher education, and in the same way we will develop a qualification framework for vocational education and training. Both for potential applicants for vocational education and higher education and for employers it will be very important to do so, because it will allow for comparison of the learning outcomes of the different training provision within one system. A working group consisting of the central providers’ organisations, which are quite numerous – National Technical School Education Selection, National Health and Social Vocational Education Sample, Forum for Vocational Schools and the National Association of Norwegian Vocational and Free Schools – as well as the Trade and Service Industry Headquarters, the NOCUT and the Ministry of Knowledge recommended in a report of 27 November 2008 that vocational education and training become part of a national qualification framework. In the light of these recommendations, the Ministry has taken a decision in principle to establish a national qualification framework for vocational education and training, adapted to the European Qualifications Framework, EQF. This is in line with the signals given by Odelstinget in its treatment of revised vocational school law in 2007. Int. O. No 89 for 2006-2007 it says: ‘In Europe, more and more emphasis is placed on the description of learning outcomes and qualifications at the end of education. The European Qualifications Framework and the related National Qualifications Framework will in future be the most important tools for the levelling of education. [[EQF]] The Committee would therefore stress the importance of the development of a good national qualifications framework by the Ministry, in cooperation with the education and training actors.» We've worked on this, and I'm convinced that this will be an important part of the professional qualification base for the vocational schools. We already have a good system of assessment of real skills in this country, and there is also a lot of what this Qualifications Framework is working on at European level. Norway is close to having systems to recognise real skills, which are an important part of the whole of this field between education and work, which is as close to work and practice as the vocational schools are. But I can assure the representative that we definitely see the usefulness and necessity of the vocational education services, and that, even in those times when there is a need for flexibility and a close relationship with the working life, we can do what we can to highlight the vocational education offer as an important offer primarily to young people who come from vocational education in higher education. The Ministry of Knowledge will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Fachskolegesetz that facilitate this qualification framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e211	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that the technical school debate also engages in the government quarter. However, I have some challenges for the Council of State, because I believe that the Council of State is somewhat evasive in some areas. One question relates to how to imagine different funding models, because, as the Council of State rightly says, there is a great variety of different offers in vocational education and it is important to ensure that you are able to obtain funding that makes it a real alternative for many. There is no doubt that much of the reason why so few — after all, it is — take vocational education, is simply that, unlike for example. taking a bachelor's degree at a university or a university costs money. Often it's just the competence you can acquire at the colleges, and the possibility of re-schooling, which is perhaps what you need most in the working life we now have. The question is whether the Council of State could elaborate a little more on what kind of funding models you can imagine. For example, if you wish: to continue with the model currently in use, where, for historical and other reasons, the subject area of the subject area, i.e. technical education, health and social education, etc., can be taken into account, for example. would it be better to take care of education and to provide part-financing, regardless of the subject area? The point is really just to challenge the Council of States to think a little bit loud about those areas. In the context of the review of the statutory audit, the Committee was very concerned to maintain the link with the higher education system. We got a lot of input from those who wanted me to build colleges not only on secondary education, but also on further education. It was very close to the committee that we did not want to go into, precisely because we wanted to keep the place that the vocational school currently has in the education system as an alternative to higher education. This is why the Right Party, the Left Party and the Progressive Party also promoted a proposal in this respect, namely that the Stortinget should ask the Government to ‘ensure that accredited vocational schools are able to set up study offers of a lower duration of up to one year as part of the student’s preparation for further vocational education’. It was precisely to make sure also to contribute to the renewal of the vocational school offer and a strengthening of the vocational school offer, so that the real alternative to higher education appears even clearer. The question is whether the Council of State might think a little bit loud about those issues, simply because if we are serious about having tertiary education between six and two years, which is practical, professional, and which is intended to contribute to the rapid capture of changes in working and social life, then we also have to make sure that the framework conditions are so good that there is a real alternative to higher education at universities and universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e229	The interpellant invites the Council of State to think loudly. I've thought a lot about the situation of the colleges and I can assure you that what I said about the transition to the county councils, which is going to take place from the next turn of the year, is a very good opportunity for the different levels of government that here have an important co-responsibility, to think loudly together. I know the situation in the regional context so well that I know that it is absolutely necessary to cooperate, both regional authorities, that is. the county in this case, those who are responsible for adult education in different contexts, those with whom they cooperate in the provision of vocational education. This means that public and private education providers are trying to get the best possible offer in each region, well adapted to the individual working life. I am also committed to maintaining what the technical school sector itself wants, namely to maintain a status and a place as a higher education. Therefore, the term ‘tertiary education’ may be somewhat misleading, but it is correct in one sense. I am concerned that it should not be a substitute for higher education, but that it should be something that comes after, and that is short-lived, in the same way as for example. studies are offered by the adult training association. Then the vocational schools have an even better qualified professional offer, and that's why this qualification framework is very important. I'm concerned that we get quality, and that those who take these educations can be sure that the education they take is both relevant and qualitatively well assured. As far as funding is concerned, there are some challenges, as the interpellant rightly points to. Today, we have a very clear system for technical vocational schools. There are better statistics on how many take the education, and so here the Ministry of Knowledge grants the education. They are usually two-year-olds, and today they include 27 depressions in seven different disciplines. In 2009, grants are paid in this context for almost 3,500 full-time students. We are in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare in relation to the similar provision in the field of health and care, and we have a clear objective that there should not be a gender difference in these education services, as is often pointed out, as there are more boys in technical education and in health and care provision more girls. I am working on getting a better and fairer funding system in cooperation with the county councils as the new manager of the vocational schools, and I am absolutely going to spend a lot of time and energy on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e242	We have a great need for skilled workers in Norway. As we have heard from the speeches today, the vocational schools offer a practical and vocational higher education developed in close cooperation with the business community. Vocational schools meet the educational needs of a wide range of disciplines and meet the growing needs of the labour market. Vocational schools are a natural career path for those who opt for a vocational qualification in higher education, and are used both by young people who come straight from higher education and by good adults who want to receive further education and training. Vocational education and training are in demand in the labour market. Professional schools also provide business with access to the skills required to be competitive, meet new challenges and increase company value creation. Now that we're experiencing economic downtime, we know that more people are going to apply for higher education. Then the wide range of vocational training courses offered by the vocational schools comes in very well. In addition, vocational schools are well suited as an instrument for re-training the workforce. Unemployment will increase, and more people will have to retrain. We also know that Nav has a growing need for access to continuing training services, both for job seekers and for people undergoing vocational rehabilitation. Here too, vocational schools play an important role. In the Dalane region, we have access to several vocational education courses through the newly established Dalane Study Centre. The vocational schools offer different training courses tailored to the needs we have in the area. Among other things, we have a district medical centre has just been established, where the need for competence is increasing. To this end, the specialised schools through the Study Centre have established a new training offer in mental health. It's a competence that there's a great need. There is only one example of the flexibility and adaptability of vocational schools. In the 2009 government budget, we introduced a separate grant scheme for vocational education in the health and social field. After the red-green government took over in 2005, we have had 11,000 more hands in the health and care sector. If we're going to be able to keep the skilled skilled workers we have, we need to have a good offer of continuing training. This is where the specialised schools in the health and care sector play a key role. This applies, for example: psychiatry, geriatry and rehabilitation. This is also important in order to succeed in the forthcoming interaction reform, where it is among other things. shall be set up several district medical centres with a need for increased staffing and competence. A good provision of continuing training is important in order to provide motivation and professional updates to employees, but it is as important in relation to the recruitment of skilled workers. We need more and more, while we have to be able to keep the ones we already have. As a result of the administrative reform, responsibility for the operation and financing of the vocational schools is transferred to the county municipalities. Right-wing fears of the future to the vocational schools when they are transferred to the counties. The Labour Party believes that this is an important step towards further strengthening the vocational schools. In line with the administrative reform, the county councils will also have a coordinating responsibility for industrial development from 2010 onwards and will become an important regional industrial development actor. Just that combination of business development and being responsible for the colleges I think will be very good, because the county councils then know very well what kind of skills you need in the different counties. There is no doubt about the importance of vocational schools to provide society and business with tailored skills at a broad professional level. As the Tora Aasland State Council said in its statement, the Ministry will soon establish a qualification framework with learning outcomes descriptions for the different levels of higher education, including for vocational education. The knowledge society requires competence at all levels of society. So we have to take care of tertiary education. In the transfer of the vocational schools to the county council in 2010 and through the future qualification framework, we hope that the vocational schools will have the financial framework they need to become more solid and robust, so that they are fully capable of meeting the need for professional competence that exists at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e263	This government's voter treatment of tertiary education is, in reality, a major distortion of choice. In the 2005 election campaign, both the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party promised to invest in knowledge and education. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government Parties state that they will ‘strengthen the allocation of universities and colleges’ and that they will ensure students ‘the best education offer, both within and outside the country’s borders’. The university and higher education sectors themselves had outlined a need for an increase of around 400 million. kr. The expectations of the Government were sky high, precisely because the red-green themselves had screwed them into the weather. But one thing is to promise, something completely different is to deliver. We all know that the Government imposed a severe cut on the sector, which was rhetorically referred to as a rest cutting, and next year the sector would almost bow down and thank it for allegedly having a boost through the reversal of half the rest cutting. This year there were expected standing ovations because the sector got the rest of the rest of the rest cut, but the shelf stone drowned because of lack of resources, among other things. for expenditure on pensions. For colleges, it's kind of the same way. After the Berg Committee characterised the vocational schools as an education between the bark and the woods, a total increase wanted to raise the vocational schools to light. The technical vocational training courses were secured by state funding in line with universities and colleges, and a unanimous increase asked for government funding for the other vocational education courses. There was also a lot of talk about vocational training in the 2005 election campaign, and players in both private and public vocational schools expected a lot from the red-green ones. It might have called an alarm bell when the Soria Moria statement did not mention colleges in one word, but it was still those who clung to the hope of getting a vocational school funding since the Stortinget had, after all, asked for it. Then came the regional message, and in the 2009 state budget we can read that the government will transfer the operational and administrative responsibility for vocational education to the county municipality from 2010. I took up in the budget debate the fact that it seemed a little strange that the operational responsibility for all the colleges would be transferred to the public, since most of them, after all, are private. The Council of State replied that: «health schools shall be transferred to the counties, with operational responsibilities and responsibilities. Then, of course, we have some formal challenges in relation to the other vocational schools». During the week we heard that Storberget has called for better processes in the government – he apparently repeated the word ‘process’ 35 times in the press conference. I would say that in this case too, the process must have been far too bad, if the government at all wants to secure the vocational schools a future in the Norwegian education system. A further paradox is that this restructuring process is taking place at the same time as the Karlsen Committee's proposal for better vocational and vocational training is being consulted. This is despite the fact that both the private and the public vocational education community strongly warns against this reversal. In my opinion, the government has not only brought the vocational schools back between bark and wood, but they have actually put the vocational schools under the peat, well-helped by the Left and blessed by the Christian People's Party. We, who know what it was like when the county councils were last responsible for vocational school education, know that it soon became a balancing post. When it comes to competing with statutory, rights-based education services in secondary schools, the vocational schools will be the losers in relation to the resources. When we know that 90 pst. of vocational education today is not financed by the public, it means that most people who want vocational education have to pay substantial sums of their own pocket. If we compare with universities and colleges that have an operational autonomy and a high degree of predictability in relation to the economy and with free education, it becomes a raw race. Nor will the resource situation of the county councils with framework transfers and autonomous policy priorities lead to national socio-economic considerations being taken into account. We know that professional science is expensive, and that many states today do what they can to get students into the general field, which is less expensive. What such an attitude would mean for equipment and resources for vocational education is most likely. It is possible that someone thinks that the Y-way can be further developed so that there is no need for vocational schools in the future, but it is in my opinion to be on wild roads. The Progress Party wants a seamless education system without blindways, where it is possible to build on its competence in a life-long perspective, with natural transition possibilities and building possibilities. We want a training system that quickly captures the needs of national employment, which also has the opportunity to see the small and protective professions, and which takes on board not least the fact that we have a globalised labour market with an increased internationalisation, which makes new and sometimes higher demands for Norwegian skilled workers both in terms of professionalism and theoretical competence. In such a system, the subject schools have their natural place. However, the prerequisite for vocational education to be a real alternative to higher education and university education is, in our opinion, that framework conditions and financial conditions are ensured at the same level of administration. Whoever has operational responsibilities is of secondary importance as long as the law is observed. Vocational education is important in the context of continuing education. There are still several disciplines where there is a need to develop a corresponding vocational education. The party also believes that there is much left to be done in relation to vocational training and the internationalisation of vocational schools. Not least when it comes to the latter, we again see that the private vocational schools lead, but with the government's attitude towards private actors, it does not promise the future of vocational education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e283	Both the interpellant and the state councils have said so much about both the status and the challenges that I think I should skip the opening remarks about what is really very broad political consensus, the development goals of the vocational schools as a self-employed alternative at tertiary level, which it is called so fine. I would like to start from the Karlsen selection, to which it has previously been referred, which provided a setting not too long ago. What we have to do in this debate is that half of those who are currently taking further training, choose a professional direction. What we have to stick to is that higher education has gone from being an elite education to being a mass education in very few years in historical context. What we have to do is we know that in the future, the need for skilled labour will only be greater. Of course, this applies to the general level of education in the population. But what may often be under-prioritised in the public debate is what goes on more specialised competence, and what goes on in sensible and good wide-ranging competence. We know that the world of work and society is developing rapidly, we know that the need is changing rapidly – and here's what the trade unions have their function. In addition, it is incredibly important, as I think is the most important job done by the Karlsen Committee, to raise their professional status and focus on the fact that those who are well professional in the field of continuing training should also be seen and should know that they also have career and development opportunities, because there has been a trend in the public debate that it is only academic knowledge that has had status. That's what I thought the Karlsen committee should be in favour of. In this context, I also thought that the interpellant should have the propensity to take care of the tone that was well suited to the approach to this important issue. Because there is no doubt that there is a big job to do. The Karlsen selection is unisoned when it comes to recommending the vocational schools as the entity that can offer specialisation by professional or youth letters. Then I disagree with the Progress Party, which says that it is in a way irrelevant that the county municipality can do a job here. If one, like the government party, agrees that we're going to have a regionally elected level, I think it makes sense that it's going to be more responsible to ensure that one has a competent workforce in the regions. Then I thought it would make sense for the county councils to take responsibility for the training courses that can be involved and contribute to it. In addition, the Karlsen selection points to something that I thought was a paradox. We talk a lot about disqualifications in continuing education, but we talk to a lesser extent about lack of implementation within higher education and academic educational institutions. I have no doubt that if the colleges were to be more experienced as an alternative for young people, one could have a slightly more sensible division of labour, and one could have made sure that people could not meet the wall and experience that they were unable to carry out a course of education. Then I agree with the inter-pellant when it comes to pointing to the role of the colleges in what is at the end of the seventh and last major societal challenges and is about society's need for skilled labour. There is no doubt that we have challenges associated with achieving these goals, which we are politically a few of them. Everyone's pointing to funding. Fortunately, there are some steps in the right direction here, primarily with the existing budget for the year. But I agree with Karlsen's selection, which says: ‘On the basis of an idea of equality and fairness, the sample cannot see any factual justification for the fact that these courses should not have the same public funding as the technical and maritime vocational schools.’ This is the historical condition – we are all aware of it – but it's a big shot to turn around. I think the selection has done an important job of saying ok, it's about funding, but it's also about the visibility of the vocational schools – seeing the vocational education as a real offer. Of course, it is primarily about potential seekers, the young people who could well have chosen such a career path if they had known him. But it may be just as much about employers and growing up their need for continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e305	Vocational schools are far more important than the public vocabulary of education. There's a lot of key personnel on the floor of companies that have colleges. There are a lot of managers in small and medium-sized enterprises who have colleges. There are people at all who are able to combine high levels of professional understanding with management and are therefore absolutely essential for companies to develop safely and constantly change and shape themselves according to their needs. The centre party is very pleased and will strongly support the fact that the vocational schools will be a maritime alternative to higher education. It shall be possible for a seagoing, completed training course to provide the necessary competence with regard to the themes and quality requirements of the training. It is a fine system where one is largely based on higher education diplomas and practices. When one then has the college, one can go straight to work. Employers are very busy with these students, and in many cases contribute to funding the education, because there is an education that makes them not need to train the students when they get into their businesses. It can also form the basis for further university education, and that is good. But the main thing is that it must be a final study. Since education has been put up in this way, a motivated student gets, and one likes to get older students. It is easier to conduct a study when making the right choice. Then the percentage of completion is large; there is a large percentage who conducts the education, because one is genuinely interested in the subject one goes on in. The time we are now in shows that there is a great need for change. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there will be an increased need for such training, an education in which one goes deeper into the substance and thereby becomes more qualified in relation to the increasingly stringent requirements, whether in the field of health care or in technical or other disciplines. It's a great system where you have a close contact with the work and business community. I am pleased with what the Council of State has said about the security of funding. I also understood that the Council of State was positive that the school offer would receive money so that for a long time it could convert the offer and thus have an economy that would make one unlocked economically and cannot change the offer according to future needs. The historical funding that we have today is a weakness in this respect. I expect the Council of State will go further into it. It has also been pointed out to us that today's funding for health and social affairs, at NOK 50 000 per person. annual space, is too low in relation to what is necessary to provide safe training. From the opposition it has been said that the transfer of this education offer to the county municipality from 2010 is negative. I get it like that. The center party cannot understand that it needs to be – far from it. The close contact of the school with the labour and business community is, of course, an opportunity for local and regional employment and business to influence the county community and thus influence it to change its supply at all times according to its needs. Such a transfer to the county gives a great deal of opportunity for a person here to receive a safe education. But what's at the heart of the whole thing is the political respect that this education has and how we elected to this education. When we say status, we may have to limit ourselves to saying that the knowledge society is based on theoretical education. Perhaps we should give greater emphasis to practical, professional education and thus give these students a sense of urgency for the future, so that they feel more respected than many feel today. I am pleased with the positive attitude of the Council of State. That is a great need for funding, Council of State! We hope it will be taken care of further, because there is a great need for this education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e324	The left has been included in the description given by the specialised schools in previous mainstreaming treatments, which are today taken up by pointing out that the vocational schools are an independent alternative after secondary education. It is a race that can and should be an alternative to higher education. The left also acknowledges that we were involved in new tasks for the new county, i.e. the so-called regional reform. It must not mean the liquidation of this school battle. I do not believe that was the intention of the government parties. It is not the purpose of the Left, and I have not realized that it has been the purpose of the Christian People's Party. I am pleased with the tone to which the interpellant has also invited in this debate, because where she is looking for solutions that make it possible for the vocational schools to remain there. Then there's two ways to think about it: the trade schools get into a framework-funded system, and that's it. Or it's up to me to do it the way I see the Council of State doing, when she says that this is still a school system where the sector responsibility is not in the county, but it's in the department, and we get our own verification framework. That means it gets a special position. At the same time, it is underlined by a number of speakers here, including from the Council of State, that the school battle is important in view of changing conditions in the labour market. There is no need to be a large fortune-teller to note that there will be a need for retraining, for shifts, to ensure that Norwegian working life has a skilled workforce. I think that in other ways, without copying it, you might want to seek inspiration in those countries that have allowed the vocational school tradition to grow, such as the United States. Germany has done. There, it has become a good – and in many ways positive – alternative to the classical route of higher education and higher education that we have in Norway. The crosshairs, or the challenge, then arise from sensible funding. However, in order to think as loud as the Council of State did, it may be possible to ensure that, in the context of the implementation of the new county municipality, financial instruments are found to give the school a start-up shine, so that it is not squeezed, as has been described and feared by many here. There are a lot of arrangements, and I choose on purpose not to go into them. However, there are mechanisms to promote migration, there are mechanisms that allow certain amounts to be added into a framework transfer – there are a number of schemes. The sum of those arrangements along with the way you talk about the school battle, I think I'll decide what kind of fate it gets. I think the situation of the school team has been so far that there has been general goodwill in the main hall, but not heavy enough will to ensure a broad funding. So you can discuss why it's gotten like this. But since the interpellation now invites to find a practical solution, and I perceive that the Council of State is looking for such a solution – I interpret it at least this way – the Council of States of the Left has full support in that regard. I also agree with the speakers who have produced the Karlsen Committee. There is a thought that has been raised, strangely enough, to give general study competence on the basis of professional studies. I think you can just forget that, but the new Y path you've created is positive. And the way that can go on through colleges is positive. It gives you a good opportunity in every way. I also share with the representative Lundtigen's description of how this can have a direct positive impact on different parts of our business, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The government has chosen, with the support of the Left, but not with the support of all sections of the opposition, to join regional research funds. So, the government has been looking for a few steps and some solutions that mean something else in a number of areas. I want to encourage the Council of State to think of practical steps that will make it possible for the vocational school option to be relaunched with a new chance when it comes to the 2010 state budget. I think Norwegian society needs it. I think Norwegian working life needs that. But I think it requires a significant – let's say – entrepreneurial capacity to cope, because Norwegian management systems sometimes have a significant ability to call for good intentions. But with the tone used in this interpellant interpellant interpellant interpellant debate and in the response of the Council of State, and with the description given by other speakers here, the subject-school option should have a chance. We in the Left are at least concerned that it should have a real chance, and that it should meet the needs of Norwegian working life in the coming years, and we consider it a proper and proper alternative to higher education after graduation. We see it as a practical, professional way of getting a living in our society. And I agree with Mr Lundtegen that we should talk about this with respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e337	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. I think in many ways that the Stortinget and the Government now have a golden chance of starting to escalate funding for colleges. Just because we're going into times that aren't going to get along with the very first, where there's more changeability in working life, and where you have to be prepared to take up skills and re-school on a regular basis, the vocational schools are an offer that I think fits as a hand in dealing with the social development we see. This is why there is now a golden opportunity to start the escalation, not only in the disciplines that primarily supply to the public sector, but also in the disciplines that supply to the private sector. I also believe that we have a good opportunity by marketing vocational education as a maritime alternative to higher education to also increase respect and interest in professional choices in higher education. If you can see the two things in context, to see that if we have a good vocational education that accepts those who come from higher education, where we help to increase respect and interest in professional choices, I think we can also help to increase the status of this offer of higher education. In terms of division of labour at universities and colleges, more people have been involved, and I think there are sensible ideas that have emerged. Then we should also be aware that today the requirements are more stringent for what you need to be able to do in order to carry out simple operations in the workplace and in the business world. Where you didn't really need any education in the past, you need more education today. And we note that in other sectors too, complexity is increasing and the need for knowledge is increasing. That is why the vocational schools are also important in this context. Then I just want to link some comments to the transfer of financial responsibility to the county councils. My and Right concerns are primarily about the fact that for a school class that already has a little trouble identifying its place outside of those who are going to choose education, we may experience an even more fragmented offer, where it is difficult to see who is really responsible, and where the offer will vary greatly from county municipality to county municipality. It is quite obvious that there should be a division of labour and an influence where local businesses contribute to the creation of services that the region needs, but it can be done very well even if the country has financial responsibility. I'm afraid we're getting an inequality in offers, and I just wanted to see demands that universities and colleges should be funded at regional level. Think of the discussion we would then rightly have, simply because the offer would be too fragmented if you didn't have one strategy for higher education. I agree with Per Olaf Lundtägen – the subject schools are far more important than the public vocabulary shows. I think it should be a good end to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e359	I also thank you for the debate, which has given me a lot of good points in the important further work on the vocational schools. Just to take a little bit of what the interpellant was in at the end, I don't think there's any reason to be so worried about this getting more fragmented by a transfer to the county council. I see it the same way as the Department of Education, the Ministry of Knowledge, has a sectoral responsibility for higher education, which is, of course, around the county's local responsibility, yet there is a national and uniform approach to this. I have always been concerned that we should have a good dialogue with the county councils in the transmission situation just to stress that here you have your own law, your own qualification system – it is a very important education that needs to be properly cared for precisely in terms of regional employment. There I believe that the county councils, which are closer, can do a very good job by just seeing a complete offer – that is, the opposite of being fragmented. Respect should be given to this education, and that respect must be based on the fact that it is an independent education. I also want to remind both myself and the participants in the debate that the starting point for this respect is a responsibility we all have, together with the county councils, to prevent the drop-out of higher education and to ensure that people get through high school so that they can start, for example. on a vocational training course. Respect for this education is reflected in our desire to have it into both the national and European qualifications framework. This will increase the status and security of professional services. What is then important, together with the county council, is to find the optimal solutions in the interaction between working life and the provision of education. It is precisely here that the provision of education is flexible, that there is diversity, that there is wide variation, but nevertheless the possibility of adapting it to the needs of the labour market at all times, which is important. I take with me good insights and views on how we deal with the interaction with the county councils in connection with the transfer of responsibility, but emphasises that the sector responsibility for this vocational school education is still in the Ministry of Knowledge. This means that we must also have good contact at the professional level with the county municipalities. Then we have a financing challenge in front of us, I'll honestly admit it. There are many different offers, and the offers that historically now have a safer funding than others, are perhaps the biggest and the most important, but I'm still concerned that we're getting a somewhat more predictable system for funding as well. So then we just have to hope that all good forces can move in the right direction so that we maintain respect, make this education offer visible as the good offer it is as an independent professional education, more flexible perhaps than many others in terms of working life, and then I am convinced that there will be a good interaction between regional employment and an appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e370	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e384	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e393	The size today does the final treatment of what we call the NRK poster. The matter has been within Stortinget a few times before, including. in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 Broadcasting in a digital future that the poster was well described. Today's case follows up the lines that were then pulled up. In fact, the Committee has once again established a point on the religious heritage, which fell from a place in the Akersgate on its way down to the Storting, and which there is a broad consensus to regain. But otherwise it's pretty much what we could wait. Up through the years, NRK's programmes have regularly created great political commitment, and well and well that's it. However, from a more fundamental point of view, there is a problem as to how and to what extent the State that owns should be able to exercise influence over the NRC. We've been on it for several rounds over the years, for example. as regards the organisation of NRKs to limited liability companies. On the one hand, it must be clear that the State must ensure full integrity of the NRC as a media enterprise and an actor in the political debate and as a news agent. On the other hand, it must also be legitimate for the State which owns it to describe a task on behalf of the population, which through the licence pays for the activity. The government has chosen to draw up a poster with clear clues about what should be the important substantive tasks of the NRK. The advantage of this is obvious that it will be easier for the NRC to deal with the owner's wishes, while at the same time it will probably be discriminatory in the policy debate on the NRC's activities, which regularly arises. The danger is that the editorial freedom of the NRK, and hence the integrity of the institution, may be put under pressure if the poster becomes too detailed. The right considers the grip of a poster to be well worth trying – perhaps not primarily for the sake of the NRK. We believe that the NRK has shown good judgment over the years in balancing and having a self-critical eye on its own business. However, it is not least important for the political debate – it appears that there is a political need to be able to debate the NRC at regular intervals. Having a poster that's set up the way we see it here, later on to be a good starting point as to what should be the theme of such debates. However, it is important and essential to continue to follow developments in a critical way, so that new themes that are being updated in the general social debate do not go uncritically into the poster and over time will make it detailed and leading for the NRC. There is a good connection in Stortinget to introduce a content poster for NRK. The party of progress has a number of views on the NRK in this case that I assume the party itself will explain, but in the case of the other parties, I think this matter is limited to just the poster. When it comes to re-establishing the section on the NRK's obligations with regard to religion and the outlook on life, there is a difference between the proposals of the government parties and those of the civil parties. There is a difference we recognize from many debates in this room, especially when we are in the landscape for purposes, and that is whether to use the word «Christian» or not – in this context in connection with the NRC's obligation to communicate religious substances. In this context, the right considers it appropriate to refer to the religious and cultural-historical anchoring of Norway in Christianity. We therefore stand behind this option. With this, I address the proposal where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e416	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e419	This message about the NRK poster has its media policy background in the message Broadcasting in a digital future and in the message NRK poster Something for everyone. Always». This NRK poster, as the Government has provided it, updates and follows up these previous messages in a good way. The changes made to the poster after Stortinget treated him the previous time have been supported by a broad majority in Stortinget, for which the case-speaker did well. The poster is even more updated when you now get your own arrows about NRK's online supply, on mobile TV, etc. Yesterday the committee was in Copenhagen and visited Denmark's new maintenance city. It's a fantastic building – or a city, as they call it – where the future of the network and mobile TV would have been something of the motivation for why Denmark's Radio chose a new style and a new organisation of its offer. In the NRK’s statutes, the relationship to the network is well preserved. It's good that it's now part of the NRK poster. Public broadcasting is a field where a lot happens, and it happens quickly. What was relevant yesterday need not be as relevant today. Therefore, as the Government also suggests, it is necessary to be able to go through the public broadcasting obligations of the NRK at regular intervals and thus clarify the mission of the NRK and the expectations that we have of the NRK. The next year will include: TV 2's concession out. Then there's good reason to believe that TV 2 will change something on its profile. Maybe it's going to mean another content and a changed offer to the viewers. How TV 2 is going to behave will be exciting to see, but the consequence is that the NRK from next year is the only player who will certainly be a public broadcaster, with the obligations it entails. A few weeks ago – or so it may have been now – TV 2 chose to send Germany–Noreg, the comeback fight to Drillo as a landscaper, on payment channels and online TV, to cause great irritation for many who did not see the fight. But I think – unfortunately, I would say – that there can be a taste of what we can expect when the public broadcasting obligations of TV 2 fall short next year. I fear that in the future we will be able to get more pay-TV on that match – and thus more irritated football supporters who will not be seen, for example. Land matches where Norway beats Germany in football, if one is not willing to pay for it. In such a situation – as I think we have to expect more and more – it is all the more important that we have a strong public broadcaster, with clear commitments and expectations, and which is discussed at regular intervals, whether it concerns the major sporting events or there are other of the NRK posters’ demands and leads that the Stortinget is invited to decide on. Finally, as the case-speaker did, it turned out that it had fallen out of a point about Norway's religious heritage and lack of views and religions. Now we've made sure that's in place again in the setting, so that the poster is complete and good, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e438	The questions concerning the NRK poster were also addressed in connection with St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future, and St.meld. No 6 for 2007-2008, NRK poster. As these treatments show, the Party of Progress does not share the views of the other parties on the NRK. This is clearly reflected in our Document No. 8:11 for 2006-2007, on the reorganisation of Norwegian national broadcasting [[NRC]] The Progress Party believes that the special position of the NRK is the result of an out-of-date thinking. In a modern society, with a rich and growing flora of media content available to most, a licensed government channel is an anachronism. We are strong supporters of competition, including in mass media, and therefore see no reason to maintain the NRK's special position. Licensing funding imposed on all households who own television sets should be suspended as it affects non-socially and unfairly. Today, even those who do not look at NRK’s programme offer are taxed rawly. However, we believe that as long as the NRK is financed by this anachronistic direct tax – which affects minimum pensioners, poor, individual households and other weak groups unreasonably – and is State-owned, the State has a legitimate basis for shaping an overall mission for the NRK’s activities. That's why we in the Progress Party want to use our right to feel something about the NRK poster. Before I further touch on the specifics of the Progress Party, I would like to point out that we assume that it must be a forgetfulness on the part of the Government that the point of the NRK's religious heritage has been replaced by a point of sport in this matter. The omission of the point of view of life is not specifically mentioned in the notification, although such omission must be described as a major change in the content of the NRK poster. It is nice that sports are included as a separate point, as this is an important part of the entertainment offer. But it would be totally wrong to see sport as a substitute for religion and life's vision – even though we know that the Council of State Giske is far from interested in Rosenborg and Liverpool. During the previous treatment of the NRK poster, there was a conflict with the point of view of life. I hope the government's forgetfulness has nothing to do with that struggle. So back to our special comments about the NRK. You can read this in the settings, so I will only take some keywords. We in the Progress Party believe: The NRK must endeavour to be as objective and impartial as possible. They have to let go of divergent views in the social debate. It has to be concluded that the NRC has to ‘approve’ society in line with a politically correct view. The offer made by the NRK shall be available to the maximum extent possible. The NRC shall not be misused to advertise the Government’s wish to transform Norway into a multicultural society. There shall be no requirement for new shares and special quotas for different groups of the population. The NRC shall contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian language, identity and culture. You shouldn't have elitism and a strong top-down attitude to people most. You have to listen to what broad teams of people want in terms of programs. In the long term, public sales should be made out of the NRK media. Reducing and removing the licence fee levied by the NRK in the long term is necessary. With this, on behalf of the Progress Party, I will address our proposals included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e496	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e499	The NRK plaque shall, on a general level, express the expectations and requirements of the community to the NRK. Technological developments in recent years have brought about major changes in the media field. These developments have triggered major market changes in the broadcasting sector. In view of this, there has been a need for a thorough review of NRK’s public broadcasting obligations. The majority of the Committee considers that the public funding of the NRC and the State ownership indicate that the State which owns a legitimate basis for shaping an overall mission for the NRK’s activities. But it is important to stress that we assume that the NRK should initially be a stand-alone institution with editorial freedom based on the traditions of Norwegian media working after. SV is pleased that this message follows up on the St.melding Committee's settings. No 30 for 2006–2007, Broadcasting in a digital future, as regards the requirement for the dissemination of Norwegian music, the requirement for content organised for the school, and the requirement to exercise caution in providing content that exposes the public to commercial press. The posters are constructed around six important pillars: The NRK shall support and strengthen the democracy NRK shall be publicly available NRK shall strengthen Norwegian language, identity and culture The NRK shall strive for high quality, diversity and innovation NRK’s public broadcasting offer shall be non-commercial NRK shall have an attractive content offer on the Internet, mobile TV, etc. The last pillar is new and shall ensure the development of technological platforms other than traditional broadcasting. On the SV side, I would like to stress the important role of the NRK in supporting and strengthening democracy by contributing to the promotion of public dialogue and helping to provide the whole population with sufficient information to be active in democratic processes. The NRK shall be editorially independent and shall protect its integrity and credibility. It is absolutely necessary in order to be able to act freely and independently of persons or groups who, for political, ideological, economic or other reasons, will exercise influence on the editorial content. Activities shall be characterised by high ethical standards and shall be balanced over time. The NRK shall also be available to the entire population. It is very important that account be taken of disabled people, including: by subtitling and translating television programmes. Strengthening Norwegian and Sami languages and culture is an important task. The NRC shall also disseminate knowledge and reflect the diversity of the Norwegian society. The NRC will create an arena for debate and information on Norway as a multicultural society. The NRK offer shall also include both official target forms and at least 25 pst. the contents shall be in neo-Norwegian. Finally, I would like to stress from the SV that the NRK should be a contributor to education and learning and appeal to all age groups. I would particularly like to highlight the important group of children and young people. They shall be provided with the quality and diversity of programmes adapted to them. Quality and innovation, news and culture for both narrow and broad groups are important. The NRK’s public broadcasting offer shall be non-commercial and free of advertising and shall not contain any specific promotional reference to the group’s commercial services and products.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e539	The media is a major influence on our culture and cultural development, and public broadcasting is a central tool in Norwegian cultural and media policy. As a public ate public broadcaster, the NRK has a special responsibility for providing good services. Therefore, it is important that the State expresses expectations for the NRK’s societal mission. The NRK poster is a good travel hood that can explain what kind of expectations the public has for the NRK. St.meld. No 6 for 2008-2009 is a revision of the NRK poster. It is primarily this that the NRK should also provide attractive Internet services, mobile TV, etc. which is new. The Christian People's Party supports this. We've previously processed the NRK poster's staging message, so I'm not going to repeat all of the areas that we discussed last time. But I have some points I want to comment on. One is the point that goes on religion and outlook on life. This point is not in the NRK poster message currently being processed, and in a letter to the Committee, the Council of State has done well for the point to fall out of an incurrence, and that it should be re-entered. The following wording had lapsed: ‘The NRC shall reflect Norway’s religious heritage and the diversity of life views and religions in Norwegian society.’» In the previous round we had a debate on this point, and we wanted to get a stronger wording. Our society is built on a centuries-long Christian and humanistic tradition, and we therefore wanted to change the expression "Norway's religious heritage" in its NRK poster 3 to "Norway's Christian and Humanist Cultural Heritage". The Christian People's Party wants one in the future to have a strong NRK. The NRK has a special responsibility to provide the Norwegian people with a wide range of news, current information and cultural material. As licence-funded broadcasters, the NRK has a special responsibility to offer programmes in Norwegian and based on Norwegian culture and tradition. I would particularly like to highlight NRK's district missions, which also have an important language policy role in society. I will go under the responsibility of the NRK to strengthen the Norwegian language and to make use of both official target forms. It is particularly important that children are given both objectives on the right, including in programmes targeted at children and young people. Today, very little news is sent in children’s and young people’s programmes at the NRK. The effort to get more new Norwegian in applications targeting children in the NRK needs to be increased. The Christian People's Party called for a larger nostril, among others. programs aimed at children, when broadcasting messages were processed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e561	The NRK poster shall be a policy guidance document which shall be capable of being produced by the Storting as necessary, and form the basis for political discussions on the requirements of the Storting for the National Broadcaster. The size has determined that the NRK should be a state-owned licence-funded broadcaster. It's a pleasure for the Center Party. But then it's also important that the Storting has a relationship with why. What is the goal of Stortinget with the National Broadcaster? The basis for such a discussion must be that the NRK should not be detailed and that the NRK should have an absolute editorial freedom. The NRK poster is built on five arrows. They are all important, but they can be ranked in the order they are listed. The overwhelmingly important principle lies in the first point: ‘The NRC shall support and strengthen democracy’. At this point, with its subpoint, lies the heart of the whole order: filling democratic, social and cultural needs of society, promoting public conversation; discovering critical conditions and helping to protect individuals and groups from abuse; and last but not least, being editorialally independent. The next arrow is also important, as a good number two. The NRK should be available for the whole population. This is an important principle for as long as we are to have a state-funded licence-funded national broadcaster. It is important that one reaches the whole people, no matter where people live, but it is also important that the needs of the disabled are taken care of in the form of subtitles and sign language. The centre party is pleased that the Storting is willing to be so specific about this cultural order. She is responsible for national programming on Norwegian language, identity and culture, while at the same time demanding that the supply reflect the diversity of modern Norwegian society, multicultural. The poster states that the NRK should be present locally and have local facilities. It is important to maintain legitimacy throughout the country. The poster makes demands for new music, and he sets requirements for playing Norwegian music. In addition, Stortinget ordered a nice width in the art and cultural media. It is further stipulated that the NRK will distribute the Norwegian religious heritage, as well as the lack of life views and religions in the Norwegian community. It is important for the Centre Party that the NRK remain non-commercial and have clear distinctions between financing commercial activities and public broadcasting activities, which are financed by the broadcasting fee. There is broad agreement in this room about the poster, and the Center Party supports the multi-digital setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e584	The NRK is strongly among Norwegian viewers and listeners. It is actually a rather unique situation that a public broadcaster has such a position. Several NRK TV programmes have achieved over a million viewers lately. P1 has up to 1.8 million listeners every day. Eight out of ten Nordics use the contents of the NRK daily. The strong position of the NRK in the Norwegian people makes me confident that it is right that we have a public owned public broadcaster in Norway. It is good that many have opinions about NRK's programmes and the NRK's obligations to the community. It's one of the good things about having such a public broadcast, that as a community, we can make demands, have expectations and discuss how to carry out our mission. This is also one of the reasons why we have developed the NRK poster. In this we have combined the expectations of the community to the NRK in one document. The poster will make it easier for the NRC to follow up on the societal mission and facilitate the Storting to follow up on how the NRK is dealing with this mission and the signals coming from the Stortinget. The rapporteur is quite right when he says that this may also lead to a clearer relationship as politicians with what demands we make to the NRK, and to a greater overall and greater awareness of the demands we as magnification and politicians have to make, and what lies under the editor's own responsibility. In St.meld. No 6 for 2007-2008, it was considered that the poster should be incorporated into the statutes of the NRC. It is important that the general principles of the NRC’s activities are enshrined in the Stortinget. That is why I have said in the past in this House that we must ensure harmonisation of the posters and the articles of association. The statutes of the NRK shall contain the same requirements as the size of the NRK plaque. In addition, the statutes contain some other more technical requirements. In my view, all the essential content requirements that we set out in the statutes are to be eliminated from the NRK poster. It has to be the Storting that's in the driver's seat, that puts the framework conditions through the NRK poster, and then we follow this up more technically through the statutes, so that we can keep this in order. We feel that we cannot include new content requirements in the statutes that Stortinget has not anchored in the NRK poster. This is the whole purpose of the NRK poster, that we gather everything in one place and get an open and wide-ranging debate on this. That's why, when we made the statutes, we saw that there were single elements on the content page that weren't well enough anchored in the NRK poster, and we therefore found it right to present this matter, so that the NRK poster was fully consistent with what we thought was right to have in the statutes. The new NRK poster has been extended by a sixth pillar with the title: NRK should have an attractive content offer on the Internet, mobile TV, etc. Last year we saw that the proportion of daily Internet users in the population for the first time was higher than the proportion of radio listeners. The Internet is the largest media among young people. Among 16- to 19-year-olds, more people use the network every day than use television and radio. It is essential for the future position of the NRK that they follow the audience on the new platforms. Therefore, the time has come to include this platform in the NRK poster. The new poster also specifies the requirements for the dissemination of Norwegian music, the requirement for content organised for the school, and the requirement to exercise caution in providing content that exposes the public to commercial press. In addition, the content of the poster is essentially such as when the Storting last treated it. I can also confirm that by an incubator this was the case with the religious anchoring. When we have chosen to have the formulation of religious history and «religious» heritage, it is simply because the wording should not be too similar to what we know from purpose paragraphs from other sectors. We don't want the NRK to feel like having a purpose paragraph. This is a broad content requirement that we make to the NRK. I believe that the content of the wording of the opposition and government parties will be essentially the same in terms of the NRC's societal tasks in this area. I'm glad that the committee joins the NRK poster as an overall expression of the NRK's societal mission. This will be followed up in the statutory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e610	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e623	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e632	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-5, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e706	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24.ana.ud903e756	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
