ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-09.ana.ud1649e686	On behalf of Stortingen, the President received the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness, good colleagues! The 154th big thing is coming together for a week when the United Nations has once again elected Norway to the world's best country to live in. It is an expression that our predecessors in this room have succeeded in the great promise of the last century: developing Norway from one of Europe’s poor countries to a well-being society that embraces a wide range of people, which is safe and open to all. It is the legacy that we, as deposit representatives, must preserve and further develop. In particular, it is important to remember that even in our welfare society, there are many who fall outside. Our foremost task must be to improve everyday life for them. Norway is a small country that is culturally, economically and economically integrated into the globalised world. That is why we also note the effects of the international financial crisis. Unemployment in Europe is now at its highest since World War II. In our nearest neighbouring country, we see a sharp increase in unemployment rates. Many Norwegian jobs, particularly in the competitive sector, also face major challenges. It is essential to have a job to go to to be able to participate in society. The more people that are involved in creating, the more sharing becomes. The work to secure work for all will therefore be the main task of the Stortinge during this period. Climate change is another major common international challenge. Asia is swept by its worst storm in decades. Millions of people are threatened by drought in Africa. Also at home, we have to prepare for extreme violence to become more common in the future. The Copenhagen Climate Summit will be important for efforts to limit climate emissions and a reference to the will and ability of the global community to work together on the necessary solutions. Well-being also makes us live longer. The number of pensioners is increasing in the years to come. It's a development that enriches society and creates new challenges for popular security. This is why it is important that all those who can contribute to the labour market have the opportunity to do so. Increasing immigration and emigration also create new challenges that the welfare state needs to adapt to. The work of further developing the welfare state of our time will mark the work of this magnificence. We have to agree on the welfare state and the Nordic model. In the newly elected Grand Prix, 104 depositors have been re-appointed. 65 new survey representatives have been elected to the national Parliament. This continues and develops the experience of the new grubbing-up in a good parliamentary tradition. For the first time since 1969, the people have given a new mandate to a current majority government in elections. The majority give the Government predictability in its work, but it also obliges the Government to have good contact with the Stortinget. Nor can a majority government rely on automatically having the majority of the Storing behind it, it has to focus on representing the majority of the population. Or as Johan Sverdrup said before the introduction of parliamentaryism: "There can be no longer government without the Great Thing, which must be governed with the Great Thing." On major national issues, it is important that a broad political platform be built, as has been the case in the previous enlargement period. Questions about the pensions of the inhabitants or about the relationship between the state and the church are examples where broad consensus ensures predictability over time. In this year’s rolloff election, 76 pst. using their voting rights. It is our responsibility to find forms of work that engage and inspire active participation in political processes. At the same time as the roll-call elections, we have also had merger elections. 20 years after the first merger election, it is a strength for our democracy that Sami political and cultural rights are respected through elections to our own things. When your Majestys the King and the Queen participate during the opening of the Sameton on Tuesday, it is an important expression of the importance of the Sameton. The Constitution is the pillar of our people's rule. It's changed many times. In the last period, we abolished Odelstinget and Lamentationet. For this great period, there are 25 draft constitutions for consideration. Our democracy is alive. It's up to us all to develop it further. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to accomplish the many and great tasks ahead of us, we gather together in the old and good will: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the staging room, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-09.ana.ud1649e746	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
