ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e67	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e85	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and members of the Government 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the Government. It will also be suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e96	It is only to note that the world's attention in these days is probably not focused on the budget debates in the Grand Duchy. They are aimed at Copenhagen and the important negotiations that are taking place there. World leaders should, during the ten days they and their delegations sit together, reach a binding agreement on CO2 savings. It will require historical courage and political competence. And if they succeed, it's a very good news for the world. At the same time, it is a victory for knowledge and for research. A climate agreement in Copenhagen is impossible to imagine without science. The entire Copenhagen Summit is based on scientific research. We have knowledge of climate change from thousands of scientific research projects. These have been carried out by researchers from many countries, including Norwegians. Norway is a relatively large climate research nation. In the case of scientific publications, we are the number. 15 on a global ranking. Per capita, we're actually the biggest. We have very good professional environments in several fields, in particular in the field of marine modelling, regional climate scenarios and polar research. One example is the Mountain Centre. They have recently demonstrated that the sea’s ability to absorb CO2 is reduced. That means that more of the greenhouse gases we emit remain in the atmosphere. This reinforces the greenhouse effect. This is a very good example of why it has been right to invest in research — basic research as a mission research. But we need to know more. This is why the 2010 budget for research into the environment and climate will increase. The mountain centre is one of the budget winners. But science is not enough in Copenhagen. The models for different negotiated solutions have been developed by community suites. Professor Arild Underdal, who I've had the pleasure of having as a head of state science, has developed contract systems for complicated negotiations. Economic theory has researched models for quota systems. Cultural knowledge and linguistic skills are also necessary if the world is to agree. Anyway, what we're seeing now is that our collective knowledge, the accumulated human beings through generations, can and will be used to save the world from dramatic changes we don't overlook the consequences of. Most people living today are surrounded by knowledge. We talk about new technology, in smarter ways of solving problems, in a technologically developed cultural and entertainment world, in a medical development that allows us to live longer and move over long distances in a short time, through how we communicate. Developing all possibilities will require knowledge. But it also requires knowledge to use the possibilities. Our future will be based on knowledge development and not least our ability to share this knowledge. The entire Norwegian school system must be, and should be, a place where each student and student is given the opportunity to develop and their abilities in a safe environment. We have to bet on knowledge without going beyond well-being, and we have to bet on safe school environments without going beyond learning. In this budget, increased focus continues on quality in the training cycle. The debate in recent years has increasingly been about knowledge and quality in school. It is entirely in line with the Workers' Party's history of education policy. It was with Gudmund Hernes' entry into the social debate, gradually in the role of Minister of Church, Education and Research, that the reform phase began. The New Year's Eve 1986 Hernes wrote a chronicle in Dagbladet with a clear message: Norwegian education does not have good enough quality. And he claimed that the lack of quality had nothing to do with appropriations, as the usual perception was. Since then, reforms in primary, secondary and higher education have been in line. The raising of knowledge is the last reform. It has been necessary, but now the reforms need to be settled. It means yes to a reform break, but not no to development. That is why we are continuing the strong commitment to knowledge and research, as announced in the Red-Green Government platform. Yesterday, the Statistical Centre was able to present new figures showing an increase in the number of Nordics completing higher education. Record-lave 30 pst. the population today has only primary education. Norway has a high level of education, a high level of research and is the OECD country with the highest proportion of the workforce in occupations requiring training. Our challenge is to ensure high quality in all parts of the education system, to provide all access to education and to ensure skills for an increasingly knowledge-based working life. I want to highlight three issues in particular: continuing to focus on quality in primary education, systematically working to reduce the drop-out rate in high school and to prepare for increased student growth in the years to come. If these objectives are to be achieved, early action is essential. The strong bet on kindergartens has been right. Once again, the number of hours goes up in primary school. In addition, we are now introducing free homework from the 1st to the 4th step. We know that social differences affect children's school outcomes. Not all parents are able to help with homework, and not all parents give homework to their own children. That is why this new initiative is very important. Everyone agrees that the dropout in secondary education is worrying and too high. Poor results from high school affect non-response, which in turn increases the risk of disability and exclusion of young people from working life. The main question all the principals have to ask is, what is my school doing wrong, which makes the students stop? In many places, active efforts are being made to get more people to complete their study or professional skills, but in many places it is too little. We need to work out measures that work. We need to spread knowledge about this to all schools. We have to make sure that every young person experiences that he or she is being taken seriously. In this year's budget, we're adding 58 million. kr to measures to increase the efficiency of implementation. It's a very good contribution, but it won't be enough. The causes of high rates of non-response are complex and require many measures in several areas. That is why the Committee's work on St.meld will be. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, next year a very important work. We don't know how many more students there will be in the years to come, but we know that there will be more. This means that we need to have good and stable funding for the university and higher education sectors. We have to take advantage of the entire sector as it is developed today. Several students have to take all or part of the education out. We donate money to several places of study in this year's budget, and it will have to go on. In any case, high quality has to be a primary goal, even though there are more students. Then we need more robust professional environments. We're going to stimulate it by 50 million. kr for increased cooperation, work sharing and innovation. There has been a sharp increase in research and development in recent years. This continues in next year's budget. Next year we'll spend about $23.6 billion, which is 0.97 pst. of gross domestic product. I have been involved in climate research. There is a focus on upgrading equipment, which is a good thing for the research community. Regional research funds also receive an increase. The budget for higher education and the technical education sectors is DKK 24.5 billion, a growth of 4 pst. Several places of study, several student homes and increased efforts at cooperation are areas I want to highlight. The Norwegian Church plays a significant role in society. The church is more than a seremoniarena, and it has an engagement beyond fighting around female bishops and gay priests. That's good. A few days ago, the Church’s organisations handed over 34 000 signatures to Minister of Development Erik Solheim, who wanted a fair climate agreement in Copenhagen. The head of the Council of Churches, Jens-Petter Johnsen, carried an irresistible sheet. The symbolism was not to be misunderstood. The Old Testament tells us about the Flood, sent by God. Climate destruction can lead to a new deluge, but this time created by ourselves, by men. The Church has an important moral voice. The fact that it chooses to use it is correct — especially to apply it to existing conditions, such as environmental threats. I will also praise the Church for the work it does in terms of dialogue across religions. In a multicultural society — as Norway has become — it is very important. The State budget for the year is characterised by a record use of revenues from the petroleum sector. We spend the next year 44.6 billion dollars more than expected returns in 2010. That's right, in a situation where the financial crisis has led to demand failure. Nevertheless, this year we have also heard the opposition and interest groups call for more money as a solution to all problems. Then I will again draw out Gudmund Hernes. In 1986 he wrote about the low quality of teaching at universities: ‘In Norway it is common to start with the economy. [[...]] Major appropriations for basic research, equipment and not least study funding would help. But to see it all as a question of allocation obscures the problems." In the years that come after this budget, we will most likely have to tighten up on the use of money. Solving the most important tasks in a better way — without spending even more money — will be the most important task for society. As politicians, we must dry up to take the lead on that very challenge. I am convinced that this is possible, but then the path of thought in many sectors, including education and research, needs to be changed. I will end by thanking the Cooperation Committee and referring to the position of the Church, Education and Research Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e156	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e159	The representative of Aasen is concerned with two important things: that quality in school is important, and that everyone should have equal access to education. Then there are some ideological barriers in the Workers' Party to this with private schools, while we know that more focus on learning in private schools gives better results and more satisfied students. The main reason for this — point out ‘Research’ — is competition for students and for the benefit of parents. It is in reality competition, not the fact that the service is offered by private individuals, which makes the service good. And in order to be a little helpful, I can then be tempted to ask the question: Why does the Workers' Party have such great problems in legislating the right to free choice of schools, at least in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e166	I have to admit that I do not fully agree with the premise that there are better results in private schools versus public schools. I myself come from a municipality with good results in school, and have one small, private school. There is no correlation at all between the results in e.g.: this municipality. We are not against private schools as such, nor are we against students being allowed to choose school. Today you can choose school in the municipality you live in, but having a statutory right to it will be very difficult, because for a municipality there are many considerations to consider. There may be crowded schools, which do not have enough room for more students, and where it is not possible, physically, to put more people into classrooms — the right to choose a school will then be very difficult to practice. It also means that neither the learning environment nor the learning offer will be good, for those students who attend the full school – who get even more students – nor for those who choose to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e173	This government has been committed to maintaining red-green municipalities as examples of its school policy. Tromsø is one of these exhibition windows. According to a survey in Nordlys on 5 October, the Tromsø school starts with a 24.5 year's work less this autumn, corresponding to an entire kindergarten in the municipality. At the same time as teaching positions are cut, the city is growing, and there are actually more students in the Tromsø school. Developments are therefore in the opposite direction to what the government party has promised, more teachers and increased investment in the school. Is the representative of Aasen satisfied with the development in Tromsø? What has gone wrong when the government's school policy obviously doesn't work in one of the major cities in the country, and that to everything overdo is governed by the red-green parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e180	With regard to the number of teachers, the number of yearly jobs in school has increased on a national basis, while the number of students has actually declined slightly in primary school. We all know that Tromsø is a press community. It is one of the few municipalities in Northern Norway that people move to, and they have major challenges to meet, in relation to both this and elderly care. How local politicians in Tromsø meet their local challenges, I can't, as a representative of Stortinget, put myself up to it, but the signal – which is quite clear from us, and which we have given through record-breaking efforts in the local economy – is that Tromsø, like all other Norwegian municipalities, has received more money. We've been very clear that this is going to be applied to more teachers, a better school and a bet that makes all students get better training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e187	As a committee, we have carried out many consultations. We have also heard rumors that government parties have had their own hearings in the process, and that is good. There we have received many clear messages – we have heard about many concerns, and as the representative was involved in his post, everyone really wants more. But what worries me about the situation is that when people come in here, I think they have a hope that we should listen – that the Storting actually listens. The result after we've met all of these people through this consultation round is that it's 2 million. (c) earmarked for two purposes in the budgetary position which have changed in relation to the Government's proposal. Does the representative of Aasen think that this is right for all those who come and present their cases, and who think it can result in changed priorities? I am also concerned about the influence of democracy and the people's input here, when, after all these hearings, the majority government only adopts its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e196	It is true that we have hearings and that there are many who have come with many wishes. I doubt that there are so many who have had expectations that there will be major changes in the budgets. It's true, as the representative says, that the red-green parties have presented their budget. What is important with the hearings is just as full a picture of the situation as the various stakeholder organisations and organisations experience in Norway. I can assure you that everyone in the red-green major fraction hears carefully what is being said, and is going to take it further. We've already started working on next year's budget. All the input we've received is going to affect how we, together with the Government, should prioritize different areas. So I do not share the concern of the representative Eriksen that this is an undemocratic form of consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e205	As far as the education sector is concerned, there is one of the sectors in which there has actually been a slight change, because there has been a cut in the course of wholesale treatment. The representative of Aasen pulls out Hers as the great social-democratic leader star on the school side, and that makes sense when you have two government councils from SV in the government you sit in. But the Hernes once said that if they can't find fresh funds, they'll have to take some sick ones instead. The Aasen's posts were mostly just about that this is a sector that has to expect to get less money. From what the Ace said, can you wait to get a lot less money, can you wait big cuts in this area in the future, or have you found some sick money somewhere? In that case, where is the sick money in the sector that Aasen thinks should have been spent in a smarter way? And why haven't you taken hold of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e215	Gudmund Hernes was good with words and word games, so quotations from him can spice any debate. In the case of future budgets, the representative, Trine Skei Grande, must accept that I cannot comment on it, because it is next year's budget we are talking about now. But that there's going to be tightening in the years to come, you don't have to follow so much to discover. We spend an extremely large amount of money, and we spend the money of future generations. Having said that, I am quite convinced that in particular basic training in Norway will not experience cuts. We will continue to invest in education, we will continue to invest in research, but there is no doubt that there are areas in the field that this committee is working on, for example. The university and higher education sectors, which can benefit from going into and looking at structures and other ways of working than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e224	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e227	This is the main debate in the budget harvest of the year. I just want to say right away that I experience it as a privilege to participate in this important debate. The importance of the debate is also illustrated by the fact that five state councils have reported their presence here today. I think the government should have honor for that. I have to admit that I thought I had left the climate debate after four years in the Energy and Environment Committee, but I did not. There we often discussed what to live on from the 10–15–20 next years. What we are discussing today is how to maintain the standard of living and welfare of a post-petroleum economy. The management of human capital, or brain power, which is a more popular concept, in Norwegian society is the topic of today's debate. The brainpower, as everyone knows, is the largest single factor in the Norwegian national wealth. I'm going to talk more about higher education and research, but first a little bit about basic education. About bullying: It's like a lot of kids get scared every day to go to school – thousands of kids do it every day. It is a pity that there had to be three Swedish State Councils before the government took this seriously. I am pleased that after Mette Hanekamhaug of the Progress Party and Trine Skei Grande of the Left challenged state council, the answer has actually been clear and clear: bullying is unacceptable whether the bully is adult or child, and the fight for a bully-free school is to be intensified. It is also the case that the strongest students are forgotten too often. Norwegian law gives all primary school students equal rights to adapted education regardless of whether they are more or less theoretically strong than the average. Unfortunately, the idea of similarity and socialist thinking makes this right constantly suppressed. Out in the real world, out in the Norwegian school, there are too few people who get organized to teach at a higher level than their classmates. This is sin and something paradoxical. There are not many football runners who would disagree that if you don't get to play football with the best possible coaches and players before you get 19, you can't inspire to become a footballer. Most football talents also debut at the junior team while they are still boys players, without this fact starting a major debate. I also remind you of 14-year-old Moiko, as State Councillor Halvorsen and I have discussed oral Question Time earlier, and who points out in the evening post on 17 November that the public school forced her to mediocrity. Not giving talented children and young people the opportunity to realise their full academic potential as early as possible has lost brain power. Socialistic thinking also means that resistance to private actors in the field of education is high. I do not belong to those who believe that private schools can or should dominate Norwegian basic education. However, national research and statistics show that private schools have a better culture for learning, better results and more satisfied pupils and parents. But then the same results also point out that the reasons for these findings are that the private are measured on results, compete on quality and have to put the user in the center. Measuring, competition and the user at the centre could also be achieved without opening up to private actors, if this was an objective in itself, but it requires free school choice. The practice in Norwegian municipalities is that the redder they are, the less free choice of school is. Then I'll be right in front of the Church. The church agreement shows that we've initiated a process where we're going to separate church and state. Eight out of ten Nordics are members of the Norwegian Church. We are now in the largest reform process the Church has ever faced. Then it would have been desirable if the Church could have used its resources to focus on the big change process that is going on, and not on fighting for the day-to-day operation. Unfortunately, it now looks as if the Church's last year as part of the state administration will be characterized by undisputed performances, trade fairs and decays for church buildings. So to higher education and research. There is often a lot of talk in the public room about the wave of old age, but unfortunately not so much about the wave of youth and the wave of students. A combination of larger youth schools and increased study propensity will increase the number of those who will at any time be in higher education, or at least be qualified for and wish for higher education, by between 20,000 and 100,000 in the next years. The real figure is likely to be between 50,000 and 80 000 by 2014. Some people make this almost as a problem. Of course it isn't. This is the gift package of the times for a Norwegian government. The central government alone needs an estimated 20,000 new high school graduates each year for the next few years. Municipalities need thousands of engineers and other training groups for municipal administration. If health reform is to have some kind of chance of success, municipalities need a massive number of qualified health professionals. Even before any legislation on teacher density in primary school, the school also needs far more teachers. And – a little daunting – one also takes into account the seemingly insatiable need for communication advisors in the departments, it is clear that the need for higher education labour in the public sector by 2025 only means that we have to hope that the projection of study propensity ends in the upper part of the estimate, between 80,000 and 100 000. This is a budget debate. I have noted that the government, with the Aasland State Council at its head, has claimed that this year's budget is a very good research budget. I can stretch to agree in part. Research is growing usefully over some budget chapters. Research on renewable energy deserves some credit. On two points, however, I would say that the Government is also failing in the field of research. The overall budget rhetoric has been that it is a budget for the provision of competitive industry. I have some challenges in general to see what point in the national budget at all this has been addressed. In the field of research, at least industry exposed to competition is not protected. The FUNN tax scheme will not be strengthened and more or less meaningless restrictions will be continued in 2010. Worse still, in what may be a crisis year for the competitive industry and the technical and industrial institutes, the User-led Innovation Arena, the BIA, will not have the means to launch a single new project. This is the first time since the scheme was established. The statement to the Council of State Giske, who is not going to be present today, has been that the Research Council within the budget of the BIA has so far spent too much money. As far as I understand, the Research Council's mission in the context of the financial crisis package was to maintain the activities of the projects under way. This has been largely achieved by the Research Council, for which they should be given the credit. But the government says that too much money has been spent in 2009. Then I want to challenge the government, one of the five councils, to tell me which projects were implemented in 2009, which should have been scrapped to release funds for new projects in the crisis year 2010. The second point where the government is failing the research is in the UH sector. The government assumes that it will be approx. 6 000 more students than in 2009. The student-based and results-based part of the appropriations is increasing in line with this. But that's how part of the basic appropriations for universities are also intended to go to education. But there can be no doubt that, in terms of total appropriations for higher education, no matter how much polemics you take into account the use of concepts around what is in a complex funding system, or how many samples you drop, the result of student growth and lack of funding is that universities need to give priority between maintaining the level of research or the quality of studies. Knowing that a large part of basic research takes place in the hands of universities, and that today's students are future researchers, this also helps to weaken the impression of the government's budget proposal as a good research budget. No matter what individual study sites choose to prioritise, research or study quality, this is a waste of brain power and human capital. The same applies to the question of student funding, which we have discussed many times in Stortinget. All parties promised 10 pst. increase in study funding. In the 2010 budget, there is no increase in purchasing power for the students. In practice, this means that no matter what standard is used, Norwegian students will have a purchasing power that places them in the category ‘poor’. Nevertheless, students with parents with good finances will be able to focus fully on education, while students with parents with a more general economy will have to be behind the 7-Eleven case when they should rather be at the reading hall, library or lecture. This too is wasted brain power and human capital, and it contributes to the impression that the Norwegian education system reinforces social differences in society. We agree on a lot. I look forward to the debate, and insofar as cooperation between the magnificence and government will also take place in the next four-year period. I take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e271	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e276	The progress party is very concerned with private schools – I have understood that both by replication and by the article. My impression is that most in Norway want to go to good public schools in their own community, and that the establishment of private schools is usually the result of the closure of public schools in the rural or outlying population. What I really want to ask the representative is the Progress Party's view of student payments and dividends at all these private schools that they want to set up. Is it going to be private companies that can make a big profit and make money in primary school training? Are you opening for a large-scale student payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e285	It's interesting that the representative Aasen challenges me at the closures of public schools. The red-green government is experts to contribute to it. It is quite correct that many of the private schools established in Norway today are being established to replace schools that have often been closed down by red-green local government, which, of course, is not necessarily a good development. With regard to the point of private schools, it is primarily to make sure to have a corrective approach to public schools. I think we could have met this to a great extent if we had been given full freedom of choice between the public schools. The student payment is not an entry for the Advance Party. But as I said, private schools are an important supplement, which, in addition to being a good offer on its own, I think, will strengthen the public school by getting them a competitor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e294	In principle, the Progress Party wants a whole new model for primary school, where the state is to assume the financial responsibility for schools through the provision of price finance. This will result in «the school no longer depending on the local economy or on the priorities of municipal politicians», writes the Progress Party in its note. In an article in the Nations newspaper, the representative Tord Lien writes that ‘there are good pedagogical arguments for bringing schools together, but for the kindergarten, such arguments should be very good for the merger to be correct’. I understand your point that the Progress Party is concerned that some children, among other things. can have a disproportionately long school route. Does the Progress Party believe that a state-run price financing of primary school students will lead to municipalities being better able to maintain a scattered school structure and a good pedagogical offer? Or does the Progress Party believe that a state-run price financing will lead to a desired centralisation of schools where one is not dependent on the priorities of municipal policy, as the Progress Party writes in its comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e301	It is quite correct that the Progress Party wants the two most important things that we believe the municipalities are doing, namely, care for the elderly and school, to be financed by a single price. This is a principle position on which the Progress Party has been standing all these years, and which we are probably not going to give up on with the first. But, of course, it must be that this price must be differentiated, so that it is possible for the school owners – whether it is private or public – is not so important. However, it is of course necessary that this scheme be financed on a price basis. I also note that there seems to be some disagreement between the two red-green replicators. The previous replicator said that when you put down the public school, as the red-greens often do, it will be replaced with a private school. So private schools are today the main reason why there are, however, so few schools that are being closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e308	The representative was concerned about the Church's financial situation in his contribution, and the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party share the concern for it. I'm not going to go into the discussion about the proste reform and that the representative thinks it's predominantly positive, while the Christian People's Party probably has a different attitude about how the Church experiences this. But what may worry me a little bit is that in the economic situation, the Progress Party chooses to withdraw a grant to the Norwegian Christian Council, the Cooperation Council for Religious and Lifely Societies and the Islamic Council. I think that as a society we are served to have dialogue across religions, across cultures, and that we need more of it. For example, the Norwegian Christian Council wants to contribute to mutual respect and understanding across borders. They would have lost the state budget if the Progress Party had been given a decision — a post that just ensures that all church communities can participate, both small and large, and that they should not choose between the priests in need and being part of umbrella organisations. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e315	I thank you for the question. We could have discussed the proste reform too, even though I guess the enthusiasm of the other parties around that discussion is a bit bleak. With regard to the allocation to all these Cooperation Councils, I note that the representative did not come forward with the Islamic Council. So we're just removing the allocation of all of these counsels because we're concerned with the equality of all religions. That's why we're in the church deal, together with the Christian People's Party. After all, the support that goes to religious communities must be based on how many members they have. Such apparatus that discriminates against religion is not desirable to use tax money directly but indirectly through religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e322	The progress party wants to open up to more private schools. In Copenhagen, more and more people who can afford it buy themselves out of the common school. 40 pst. of all the kids who have academic parents go to private schools, and many of the kids of ethnic minorities go to religious schools. It means religious segregation, and that means social segregation. I wonder why the Progress Party wants to open up to such a reality in Norway. In addition, I can't see that the Progress Party responded satisfactorily to Aasen's questions about financial returns, so I repeat her question: Does the Progress Party believe that it should be free from financial returns in private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e330	I am not surprised that the representative Tajik is not satisfied with the answers given by the Progress Party on private schools. But when the representative Tajik asks questions about this with religious schools, I'm going to be in trouble. We want everyone, including those who have a common pedagogical approach, in line with public schools, to be allowed to run schools in Norway, while the red-green government assumes that religious schools should be given priority when it comes to it. I think that's weird. There is no target for the Progress Party to introduce parental pay or, for that matter, for schools to be able to make dividends. The aim of the Progress Party is to get a corrective to the public school. As I said, I think a lot of that need for correction for the public school could have been achieved by free choice of school. I expect the representative to know about Ullern high school, who in a situation with a few students has made his school one of the best schools in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e337	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e340	This government will go into the history of the government that has wasted the chances of a forceful effort on education in the good years we have behind us! This government has excelled in wanting to tackle the knowledge challenges in school! This government has no offensive plan for how higher education and research will solve its recruitment challenge and meet an expected student tree in the coming years! Right wouldn't be right if we didn't challenge the government on what's society's greatest challenge: to process people – or human capital. Norway is facing a fundamental challenge throughout the education sector, from primary to higher education. We need a more offensive learning culture. We need an education system with higher expectations, whether it's at the first grade in primary school or for the student in higher education. To prepare for the future's work life cannot be to choose the least resistance path, not if we have ambitions to live on knowledge. If Norway is to be among the world’s leading knowledge society, a more challenging school and education system is required. We have to add the list higher from the first day and stop putting less emphasis on the learning and motivation of students and students. Nor are weak students worthy of holding them back. A recent SSB review of international Norwegian school surveys explains poor student outcomes with too low requirements and weak culture for assessment. Learning pressure needs to be increased in order for students to learn more and improve their performance. The OECD has previously distributed yellow cards to Norwegian education. Now the SSB is following up. This is when the time is running out and the time has come to put the school's knowledge assignments at the forefront. I am proud to belong to a party where action follows words. Says Right that we're going to bet on knowledge, we're going to bet on knowledge. That is why we have used all the last five budgets to continue investing in the quality we provided through the Knowledge Promise, the Quality Reform in Higher Education and the upgrading of Norwegian research through major research funds, several scholarship holders and increased equipment investment. When the Minister of Knowledge recently spoke to the National Meeting of the Federation of Education, one of her messages was: ‘It is not oil and gas, but people and their competence that is the largest part of national wealth.’ But the government's government budget does not respond to the government's own challenge. On the other hand, it does Right's alternative state budget, which invests $1 billion in knowledge to better equip the country for the future and to ensure the well-being of generations after us. The right is increasing the amount of further training for teachers by 400 million. NOK 50 million. kr to senior measures for real-time teachers, raising the basic appropriations for higher education by 250 million. NOK, propose an additional 384 million. kr for research, which will also provide about 100 new scholarship holders, and last but not least: the right forces the Research Fund by DKK 10 billion. From different quarters, there is a warning against government policy. A report by NIFU STEP warns against a weakening of the role of the Research Fund in overall research funding. From the University and Higher Education Council, there is a warning against the consequences of low basic appropriations. The students are calling for the filling of red-green election vows in eleven months of study support. In the north, there are few tracks after the government's so-called North Region bet. The mood in Hammerfest is labs after the government deflects EnergyCampus North with poor 1 million. kr in 2010. The new energy engineering study, which was supposed to be a signal project and build new skills on a field area needs, now hangs in a thin thread. There is little agreement between action and words in the north. The right hand story is also the story of the party as a guarantee for investing in knowledge and quality in the school. When the Right wants to double the rate of continuing training of teachers, it is because this is the measure that can give the greatest benefit to students in the short term. Now it's up to us to build on the teachers we have, and now it's up to us to think new. Seven out of ten teachers say they need professional replenishment. It must be taken seriously by the responsible school authorities. On the right, the Minister of Knowledge challenges new ways of implementing the continuing training of teachers. Just as the health sector does not have any nurses to care for, so the school does not have teachers. This means that we need to find new and more flexible solutions for empowerment, which, for the most part, must be based on the fact that teachers cannot leave their students and their classes. I agree with the Council of State that we need more teachers – many more teachers – if we are also to be able to compensate for departure for age. However, the right is completely in conflict with the priorities of the Council of State when more teachers are about to stand in the way of more continuing training in five to ten years' time. The consideration of all the school schools suggests that the government should invest far more to increase the skills of today's teachers. At the National Council of the Federation of Education on 3 November, the Minister of Knowledge was committed to ‘give teachers room to do what they should, namely teach. A separate sample will help us’ — the Ministry — ‘to identify ‘time thieves’ and red tape teachers’ jobs’, said the Council of State. If the Council of State actually believes this – and I think so – then how is it possible that the Directorate of Education comes up with directives that lead to the very opposite, as if by imposing a ban on plus and minus when figures are given? For the school, the provision has come as lightning from the clear sky. No one's asked for it. The ban means increased red tape and more work for teachers and, in fact, less precise grades and feedback to students. To the right, the new ban clearly works against its purpose and today proposes that the Stortinget ask the Government to withdraw the ban and to continue what is established practice with regard to characterisation in Norwegian school. One can slowly wonder about this urge to repair what actually works. Doesn't the Education Directorate have other things to do? The right is uncompromising in its priority of knowledge and math in front of food. Anyone who has followed SV before and after the party came into government will see that SV, strongly pressured by the Workers' Party, is on the waving front in relation to their own policies. When SV now talks less about games and more about learning and less about food and more about math, and the party leader takes the Ministry of Knowledge with a clear message that Norway is going up on the PISA ranking, it represents a political ham change for SV and an important step towards the knowledge school Right has fought for. But we still have the advantage of seeing an SV State Council in dismay over a school that has raised the results in mathematics. I don't know what Øystein Djupedal thought about when he proclaimed at SV's national meeting in 2005: "Think how happy we'll be when we get rid of the right-hand school!" Today, I think, how confused is the Swedish school policy really? Either the party doesn't know what it wants, or the party doesn't get it – in meeting with the big brother, the Labour Party in government. Tests and monitoring are instruments, not targets themselves. It's the follow-up that each student gets after the test, which is the important thing. These could have been my words, but the statement comes from the knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen in meeting with the country's largest teacher organisation. If the Council of State thinks this, she has also put a line over her own and the party's previous position on testing only by a selection of students. If so, please welcome the new orientation of the Council of State on this point. The Council of State will also have the Right full back cover to put power behind it, so that all municipalities in the country will have to follow up the results of the national tests. National tests are one of the most important tools of the school for providing good, adapted training to each student, a right of students under the Training Act. It is in the interests of the Storting that the Government will ensure that the laws are complied with. After four supervision, there is still reason to ask: Where else in society can state councils sit for four years and watch that children’s rights are being seriously neglected? Education and research are not suitable for improvisation. Nevertheless, the impression remains after four years of red-green rule. Where has the long-termity of funding policy become to the many knowledge providers at all levels of the education system? Restful and very tight budgets have left the sector in a hopeless gap between forward-looking new initiatives and maintaining quality in existing activities. With the red-green government and SV management in the Ministry of Knowledge, the sector that is to build the foundation under new value creation and provide skilled labour for both the public and private sectors lacks predictability in its planning. It is with respect to not reporting to take education and research seriously. It is a great cross of thought when the committee leader here today uses his contribution to alert higher education, when we know that tens of thousands of new students are in line and are going into the sector in the next few years. I take up that proposal from the Right, which is distributed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e413	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred. The President has doubts as to whether it is parliamentary to call some 'disturbed'. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e420	When I hear the representative from the Right on the Chair today, I wonder if the Right has been opposed to the Knowledge Promise – The Knowledge Promise that the Right in repeated debates over the last few years has made its reform and has been the Right's response to all the challenges facing the School over the last few years. The school policy pursued by the red-greens is built on the Knowledge Lift, which all the parties represented on the Stortinget today were behind. The black paint of the school from Aspaker's side I wonder about the bottoms in opposition to the Knowledge Lift. What do you think the Right should have done differently with this reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e430	The reply from Anna Ljunggren falls on his own unreasonableness. In fact, I was the political adviser at the time when this reform saw the light of day. I set myself 100 pst. of course behind the reform, but we are disappointed that the government parties do not follow up more closely and ensure that the bottom plan that must be in place in the reform, namely the competence of teachers, is not better achieved than what is actually being done today. There is no continuing education for teachers when it comes to continuing what was in the first years of the reform. When seven out of ten teachers communicate to the authorities that there is a need to fill their skills, the answer is not that we should train more teachers to come to school in five to ten years' time. Then you have to face that challenge with a far greater seriousness than what the government is actually doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e435	The right has managed, through unrealistic and very creative budgetary policies, to find a room for action in this debate that the representative is fully exploiting. But when we get to the studio, cut right. We're surprised at that. Then we believe that the Right has little understanding and recognition of what the Study Associations are doing, as formulated in the position of the Tron Committee, which we thought initially had a very positive attitude to, namely that the Study Associations should operate with an activity to maintain and strengthen democracy, influence their own situation, contribute to inclusion, motivate knowledge and competence, etc. Is it not precisely this representative who called ‘the processing of human beings — or human capital’? Is it the Right Party that shows its blue, true face, that they want to spend money on basic competence rather than on the broad community-building activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e440	The difference between Right and Right is that we're able to prioritize. We understand that we should not spend more money. On the contrary, we should tighten in. That also means that in the Department of Knowledge we have actually made some repriorities. If the representative had seen the proposals from the Right in the context, he would see that the cut in the study associations has largely been transferred to the basic competence programme in the workplace. We do that in recognition of the fact that many employees still have challenges in basic reading and writing skills. In addition, we know that the labour market needs a great deal of expertise that we believe this programme is the best tool to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e445	The opposition parties, including the Right, say that the Government's allocation relating to a permanent system of continuing training of teachers is largely equivalent to the allocation contained in the Knowledge Lift. I would think that the needs were also known at the time when the Right had the Minister of Knowledge, with the representative as an adviser. Since the government now gets criticism to follow up the expectations that were actually in the Knowledge promise, I wonder if the representative can clarify what the Right believes is the reason why the need for further training of teachers is significantly greater now than it was when the Knowledge promise was designed. After all, it's not very many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e450	When the promise of knowledge was launched, the government was at the time concerned that the financing of the direct enhancement of competence which had to take place due to the new nature of the reform was introduced into the previous four-year period. So now we've experienced that teachers are increasingly volunteering to the education authorities and articulating that there is a greater need for empowerment. At the same time, a number of studies indicate that the teacher is the most important input. Then it would just be missing if we weren't going to take over the new knowledge. That is why the Right has doubled the efforts for continuing education for teachers because we believe that we need to take a greater force for those who have actually made sure that the next generation and the annual schooling of students who are in school today will be as well equipped as possible with the latest skills, in meeting later education and the working life they will once go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e457	Right means that the government puts the Church at risk when you don't correct the serious economic situation. Right wants permission 10 million. extra for stroking. Then my question becomes: Does Right mean an extra 10 million. Is it clear whether the Church is in danger or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e463	No, probably the need is greater, but there was the Right on this occasion found room to give of extra appropriations to the Church. I would almost like to put the question back to the replicator here, because it must be a cross of thought for the Government to now carry out major reforms in the Church and then leave the Church in the hole. I have to say it is quite dramatic when, in the diocese I belong to, North Holland, you actually now warn that you have to gather the funerals on the same day, so that you almost get a band. It's pretty unworthy, so it's a church and an organization that I think most people are going to react to. It should also have been included by the Government in the draft government budget submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e468	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e471	Knowledge is power – it's like the British informant Francis Bacon who gets the credit for having first come up with this good wording. In his time, the focus was on human power over nature. Not least the climate crisis tells us that we need to develop new knowledge in science and technology. At the same time, the climate crisis, such as the financial crisis, the food crisis and the global militarisation, is primarily a social crisis, an ethical moral crisis, a political crisis that almost inspires new and action-oriented knowledge of both people and society. Knowledge is something far more than theory, something you can read and learn, something that a research scientist can look for. Knowledge must be made not least, and in this way it should tend to be more inquisitive than beneficial and political. By having a broad concept of knowledge, we capture all people more easily. Everyone has in themselves a knowledge and not least a capacity and a desire to apply and develop more knowledge. This is actually one of the finest of the «invention» human beings. It's easy to see this in the nursery, but it may not be so easy to see or so well visible in a school-wearing 10th grade or in a worn and pressed workplace. With this kind of knowledge that we're basing on, basic skills will be something more than reading, writing and calculating. There will be more questions about being creative, dealing with yourself and being able to interact with others. With such a knowledge view, the number of published articles in scientific journals with ‘reference’ will be important enough, but not enough to understand the full meaning of a research activity. The state budget of the year shows a good direction. The future depends on how we master the transition from an oil economy to a knowledge economy. Therefore, SV has been a driver of full child care coverage, for a good school for the young and to combat school dropout. We know that kids who are given the opportunity to participate in social and learning communities – and that is important to us – succeed better than others in later life. It is also very pleasing that the government is now proposing to introduce several school hours at the nursery and free, voluntary teaching aid for the youngest children. For free, voluntary homework, valuable additional support is provided and ensures good follow-up. The government started by granting 373 million. for the introduction of free learning material for students in secondary education in 2007 and has continued to escalate in 2008 and 2009. In three years, the red-green government has secured free learning material for everyone – also very important. In addition, in 2009, the Government established a new investment scheme for school buildings and swimming facilities, which is now continuing. Two billion are being phased in in 2010. It is important that students and teachers have a good physical working environment. In 2010, the government also proposes to build 1000 new student homes. This is also an important measure in the discussion that goes on equal rights to education, and so that our students can study more and work less. Then we're going to notice – we have some discussions about this in the hall – that the red-green government has made sure to build far more student homes than what the right parties did last time they had the chance. In education and research, we are now approaching 1 pst. of GDP and is of the world's leading countries in using public funds for research and higher education. We are increasing the number of places of study by 5,600 new ones from the fall of 2010, and teacher training is getting more attention and resources. As far as the Research Fund is concerned, we have now reached NOK 4 billion, and the return is to be earmarked for research equipment. It's also very important. Climate research has been given a central place, also very important – just to mention something. This is a good budget. The installation from the right could indicate the opposite. Here we have a clear disagreement between the government parties and the opposition. Knowledge is power, and therefore it is important to focus on knowledge. There are some people who have twisted this statement a little bit, that power is knowledge, and then there is danger on the move. What then becomes valid in the social debate is that it is the powerlessness – political, religious and economic – that gets through and defines what they think is true. In my opinion and in the opinion of SV, many of the social debates in question today are going to be quite ridiculous, on the border of being destroyed in between, precisely because it is the power that determines knowledge. In cross-sectional form: parts of the climate debate, parts of the Islam debate, parts of the sick pay debate, the inclusion debate, etc. are social debates that show that more knowledge is needed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e497	The representative expressed joy over kindergarten agreements and how well we really do in Norwegian school. I won't disagree with that. In the budget setting, the Committee points to the importance of counselling, that parents with children in primary school can contribute positively to the motivation and learning outcomes of children, and that this is of great importance for children, regardless of their parents’ educational background and level of knowledge, we know that it is of great importance for children’s learning. But where the majority stops the influence of parents. The Progress Party believes that raising their children is the responsibility of parents and that it is therefore important to recognise the parents’ right to choose which school the children should attend, regardless of local boundaries. What is the reason why SV believes that parents should not be allowed to choose which school the children should attend, regardless of municipal boundaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e506	The progress party has claimed this for a long time, and I've tried to figure out what it would look like in my own county, Uppland, if the parents were to carry their kids across school circuits and municipal boundaries. What kind of community would we get? Our starting point is that a good school is a community institution. It will work well both internally and in interaction with the community if it is just those living in the community who use the school and have their kids in that school. This is how I believe in the community school, and I don't least believe in having the community as a starting point for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e513	‘Knowledge is power’, said the representative in his statement. I think it gives some power to sit in government too – a majority government, with two government councils in the same department. It is strange that SV has not managed to use this power to do what SV has said they should do. I've read SV's deposit selection program. In seven places in three pages, it is stated in different versions that SV believes it is important to improve the quality of education by increasing basic appropriations for universities and colleges. So it's repeating a number of different places. Then the question is, why has SV not managed to do this in a state budget that uses record oil money? We heard the chairman of the committee say instead: 'Extremely much money'. An overall university and higher education sector has requested increased basic appropriations to secure its economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e522	That's also why in the new Soria Moria statement, this remains a clear ambition. In contrast to the Right, the Government has had to deal with the existing economic reality, and then the Government has chosen in this round, in this budget, to give more priority to specific increases, both research and not least educational. But we certainly haven't given up the ambition that one should try to strengthen the base gradually beyond this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e529	The Christian People's Party and the SV have many different priorities in school policy. The representative had a rather interesting statement that «knowledge is power» and warned that power would determine knowledge. One thing I've tried to figure out is the SV's belief that several hours in school will provide more learning. I can't find the research that says that it will actually produce results. We can look at Finland, which has fewer hours, but scores better at PISA. We can follow up on a lot of the research material, which says that there aren't several hours that are the answer, but maybe more and even better teachers, more practically organized school, and a situation that won't get weary kids when the day is over. Has SV listened to parents and teachers on the real challenges in school? Or is it that here the power has determined the knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e536	Here we disagree, which is often the situation in politics – that there is a disagreement of fact. I think the Christian People's Party has a little panic for hours. Norway is not high in the number of hours at school compared to comparable countries. One extra point, which I think the Christian People's Party is really missing, is that it seems as if the Christian People's Party still has a notion that there's a mother at home waiting for her kids to come home. So, we've deliberately suggested that we have a working life where both mother and father/consultant are out of work. In the same way, it's also a point to give good deals to our kids while we're out of work. That's why we want a school with several hours, and we want a good SFO as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e543	I very much agree when the representative Hagen speaks of «knowledge is power». I sat in this committee two periods ago, and then I realized that the Left and the SV were very much in agreement, especially in the field of higher education and research. But what surprises me is that then the SV fought, for example. for the research fund to reach DKK 100 billion in 2008. Now the target is SEK 77 billion in 2010, while the left holds its promise of SEK 150 billion in 2010. There were elections at 11 months of student support – one has not made that clear. I also remember when SV fought against all national tests and promoted a Document No. Eight proposals here in the hall. Soria Moria was told that you would have 15 students in each class, and before the previous election, you would have warm school meals. Now I notice that SV, and also the representative Hagen, use much more not the word ‘lift’, but ‘ambitious’. Where has it really become of the big ambitions SV had in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e553	Such debates become difficult when a positioning party has a different budgetary starting point than an opposition party. The left has cleared up – and I still mean through unrealistic budgetary work – a space of action that we do not have. Then a priority must be given within the given framework. We are a little surprised that a former government party does not remember what one experienced when one was in government – that one just did not get through all of his primary positions. I think the Left would be worth thinking a little more about the experiences they had when they were in government. One has to try to figure out the solutions with others. Not least, one must have a long-term perspective and not be committed to implementing its programme during the first financial year of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e565	Norway is again designated by the OECD as the world’s best country to live in. Yeah, we're lucky, sail if we don't see how lucky we really are in the daytime. But that doesn't mean that we can't get better in many areas. The availability of education is one of the factors that counts in assessing how good our country is to live in. Education is a key factor for development, and knowledge is a key factor in finding solutions to the really big challenges we face in the future – such as the climate crisis and the food crisis. But we can never deal with the major challenges without the quality of education. We need to have quality, so that we ensure that students actually achieve the learning goals that are set. The school has been characterized by an innumerable number of reforms. Now we have a education sector that is experiencing the promise of knowledge and adjusts its work in line with national leadership and achievement. It makes me, after all, optimistic and think that the students' learning outcomes will improve as we improve the reform. But I still want to warn against blindly assessing the school's success measured only by facts and scores of international tests. The rate of non-response, especially in the vocational studies, also shows that we do not succeed well enough. Both working life and social life also require capacity for cooperation. That is why we must not risk students' social skills in the long run in order to achieve the objective of finding answers to future challenges. There is a cross-political consensus that everyone should have equal opportunities for education. It means to be given opportunities according to their abilities, regardless of social background. The budgets shall contribute to facilitating these opportunities. A good teacher is a prerequisite for good learning. It has been and is a major focus on the fights and unrest in the classes of all the political parties. Barriers and unrest prevent the possibility of learning, but rest in the classroom cannot be adopted on the Stortinget. What we can do, on the other hand, is to facilitate that teachers have the tools they need to create a framework for learning. Such tools are pedagogical and didactic understanding. Teachers need not only to be competent in mathematics or Norwegian, they need to have knowledge, experience and understanding of methods and techniques that make you calm, but at the same time vary, motivate and adapt the activity to the individual student group. The centre party is therefore pleased that we have now started a new teacher training course in which just teaching and learning skills are significantly strengthened after having been down-prioritized for a few years, and that the work will be strengthened by 100 million. kr in the budget for 2010. But we don't have time to wait for school development to depend on newly educated teachers. We have evenly over a very competent teaching profession today, where many are very busy making their teaching best possible. It is therefore important that we continue to work regularly to provide continuing training for teachers. There is a political disagreement about how many are going to be re-educated and re-educated each year. I think we're on a good track when it's set at 400 million. for the development of skills for some 2 500 teachers in 2010. The opposition parties point out that it largely corresponds to the appropriations required for the Knowledge Lift. Yes, since there was cross-discipline about that reform in Stortinget, everything indicates that we are on the right track. Perhaps the biggest challenge we have in Norwegian school today is, however, the great disqualification in high school. Norwegian youth has great opportunities, but when statistics tell that about 30 pst. of students not completing secondary education within five years, we need to put in place measures to increase the implementation rate. The fact that in some professional studies it is close to 50 pst. which does not complete is a violent waste of human abilities, talent and resources. We cannot afford that, either in terms of youth seas, the labour force of the future or in terms of public budgets. I am therefore pleased that the Government has chosen to allocate funds to strengthen the work on this. I also believe that the red-green government has so far had a good approach to how we should reduce the drop-off. We need both early follow-up and post-monitoring efforts. We need more practical experience, especially in high school, because there's become little room for action to facilitate this, and we need more entrepreneurship in school. Entrepreneurship should therefore be pursued through education and young entrepreneurs should be given particular attention in vocational training programmes. The center party thinks we have to help raise the practical good students. Norway cannot afford to use the abilities of these students. We also need to shift labour in the future. Unfortunately, many of the students who are practically good were not adequately cared for during the launch of the Knowledge Lift. In high school, everyone leads into the same grinder. This has led us today to have a number of students who have never been shown what they are good at, or feel mastery. Young school is perhaps the toughest time in a kid's life. That's the time most people find out who they are compared to others. Increases in the rate of drop-out statistics from higher education not only say something about the challenges at secondary level, but it says something about experiences from all the years they have gone to school before they get there. The center party is concerned that we don't forget these students' sails if we now want to focus on what's going on to do also results within, among other things. real science is more important in the future. I am pleased that the government is now addressing the challenge of high school and trying out a practical work force in high school. I am also very concerned that this is an offer to be selected on the same line as e.g. 2nd foreign language. You will no longer be categorised as a ‘special case’ if you choose more practical in upper secondary school. Choosing a practical course in secondary school should also not lock the student’s options in secondary school. I am pleased to follow the test forward, and I look forward to the treatment of St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, which covers the Education Line. Every human being is unique, and every human being needs recognition and confirmation that one matters. The possibility of knowledge and work is an important factor in maritime respect. That's why it's important that we have several ways to go in order to gain competence. The challenges of increasing student numbers in the future are demanding for the university and higher education sectors. There are uncertain predictions of what the increase will be, depending on the study propensity. But we have to have more thoughts in our heads at the same time when we're going to take into account new students. Here I'm going to bring out the colleges. The vocational schools provide both shorter and longer education leading to professional competence, a competence that will be very valuable in the future. I have great expectations for the development of the vocational schools now when the county takes responsibility for them. And I expect that the burning commitment that exists in the county municipalities will ensure a good training offer in this area as well. It is also necessary to mention regional research funds as an action designed to strengthen the regional interaction between business, regions and higher education institutions. The funds shall be complementary to national R & D funds and shall contribute to the realisation of good projects in all parts of the country. The parties believe that regional projects, driven by local needs and derived from regional competence environments, will be an important driver for innovation both in business and in the development of welfare services. The centre party is concerned that the challenges we face in the future must be solved through knowledge, a future that must include both the theoretical good and the practical good. Every human being is unique. I believe that our red-green government is well on track to develop a more balanced education policy that just takes all students seriously. Finally, I have not talked about the Church in my post, but for information to those who have missed it, I come back to that matter in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e617	I very much agree with the representative Tingelstad Wøien's observation that the high drop-out rate shows that the government has not succeeded in this field so far. Furthermore, she points out that more practices are important in preventing this. The question is then: why did the representative Tingelstad Wøien vote against the proposal of the Progress Party last time to reduce the theoretical proportion in the professions, and why do you only want a test system with practical work, rather than a permanent system of secondary education?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e622	Now it is the case that I was not a representative in the last period, so I have not voted on the proposal to which Mr Hanekamhaug refers. But I think it's important – and I think the Progress Party and the Center Party share that view – with more practice in high school. We have experience in what we had in the past, in the old days, when I went to school, but I think maybe we should try to be more focused than we were then. There were probably several of us who were driving both shooting and a little bit of other things. I think it might be a good idea that we, just as the government says, now test it out, do a test, so that it becomes a little more targeted by the fact that those who go to high school have the opportunity to pick up a course from high school. Today, largely general education is being brought down to high school. It may make sense to do what the government thinks, to be able to bring up the subject from the professional courses to the secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e627	Recently, there has been a debate over the country about the closure of schools. There has been a great deal of concern from many points of view, as it is clearly reported that closures are largely the result of budget cuts. I have registered that the representative Tingelstad Wøien and the Central Party have also expressed concern. My question therefore becomes whether Tingelstad Wøien believes that national orders and designations that the Government is behind, for example. School fruit and stricter rules for the number of pupils per year. Teacher, is it in line with the Central Party's policy in this area and is it in the process of giving each municipality freedom to focus on quality when assessing school structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e634	Now I guess I don't think it's the school fruit that has led to schools being laid out in District Norway, but I share the representative's concern that there are a lot of schools being laid down. As far as I've registered, there are 12 or 13 more schools in this period than it was when the Right put in government, so there's not so much inequality. I'll say it this way – and I think we agree on it too – that schools can actually become too small. But there can also be disproportionately long journeys for many young people. This we need to go into, so we can make sure that the kids can go to a school near where they live. I think we'll have a good cooperation on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e639	The centre party has many good priorities in its policy, and I am glad that the representative Tingelstad Wøien is also very clear on that line. In the election campaign, the Centre Party and the Centre stood out as quite clear opponents of the whole-day school – both on the basis of a first-class idea and also on the basis of ideology. Of course, it would have been tempting to ask whether the centre party recognizes itself in the SV's description of these home mothers who had to. But I'm not going there. What worries me is what the Central Party parliamentary leader has said: ‘If we were to increase the number of hours further, I fear that there will be many unskilled people teaching our children. Those who have the most difficulty learning will lose out on such a situation.» This is what the central party representative from Hedmark says. Nevertheless, this budget increases by another hour. You're at full speed towards a mandatory SFO. Fears the representative, Mr Tingelstad Wøien, in the same way as his parliamentary leader, that it is those who have the most difficulty to learn that will lose out on that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e653	I'm not afraid of the one hour with which it's being expanded from the next school year. One hour has not been earmarked either. It should be able to be used for what the school or municipality sees as important to strengthen in its municipality or at its school. I think that's very true. So we're going to assume that things take time at school. It's actually taking time if you're going to dress up on 28 kids -- I've been working at school seagoing, and I've been dressed for 28 six-year-olds going out to skate. It takes quite a while. That is why I am not so concerned about that increase. In the case of the SFO, it is said that there should be a voluntary SFO scheme and free lessons should be provided in this scheme. I think that's good. I also think it is important that we insist that the SFO should be a voluntary offer, and I do not agree with the representative Hagen that there are no more mothers at home, because there are actually some of them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e660	Let me start by saying that when for many years I've heard the rhetoric of the Central Party about the local economy when the Right Rule ruled the local economy, I'm somewhat surprised that you're happy to get twelve more school dropouts than you did in the last period of government. So a lot of schools are closed, and there's a lot of them in danger of being closed down. Today, some of these are replaced by parental schools. However, this implies demands for alternative pedagogics or alternative life views and demands for relatively significant self-payment. Would it not have been good centre party policy and good district policy to make it easier for parents to set up cross-border schools around the country of Norway where the public chooses to drop out of schools? Would it not have been good central party policy and district policy to open up that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e668	I think we're going to be happy that we have a red-green government when it comes to the local economy. This government has, as far as I remember, spent over 40 billion more on the municipal sector, and it is clear that this is important. That doesn't mean that schools aren't closed, as the representative here points out. I think it's all, the most important thing is that we make sure we have good common schools, not that we have good private branch schools. The most important thing must be that all students can go there, regardless of the wallet that their parents might have. So for the centre party, it's always important to be involved in the community school, because it has to do with the community and is the key to a good community, regardless of whether it's private or public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e673	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e676	The number of students who do not complete secondary school is worrying. One in three does not complete secondary education, while the figures are even higher for young people with minority backgrounds, and especially for boys. I believe that society has failed in providing all young people with an opportunity for education and thus for work. The reasons for non-response are many, and it is important to stress that students who are in a single subject are also included in these figures. Unfortunately, we also find many of these people in the statistics related to social assistance and unemployment. This is why it is vital to take urgent action to help more people get through high school. When I travel around the country and visit schools, I have noticed that an incredible number of good local measures have been put in place to reverse this trend. We have to use these good examples to a much greater extent. It's the schools themselves who know what works best at their school. Many have tried and failed in various ways for many years. We propose to set up an action item of 25 million. where support can be sought for good local action to enable young people to complete their schooling. The government has chosen to focus on the need for early action. I do not disagree that it is important, but I again note that the government, apart from the representative of the Central Party Tingelstad Wøien, forgets the high school. Despite repeated calls from the Christian People's Party, this government does not choose to address the major challenges of high school. Little or no research has been done in this area. Education is for theorizing; there are major challenges associated with trouble, and many teachers are afraid to work right at this stage. There's reason to believe that this continues to reproduce and leads to a dramatic high drop-out rate in high school. In this budget, the Government proposes to test out a new occupation in high school. However, the weakness of the formulation of this subject is that it should not be for everyone, and that it does not solve the lack of practical skills in school. In addition, the students will commit themselves to continuing their professional careers in higher education. The subject thus does not solve the problem of the theory-tung education in high school. That's why the Christian People's Party believes that this subject is not the answer to the challenge of a theory-based high school. Young school must be a master's arena for children and young people. When students are not involved in the theory, they must be offered a more practical school day. All will be able to benefit from practical subjects at school, regardless of their abilities and facilities, and therefore it would be more appropriate to get back to the upper secondary schools. Both the professional and the second foreign languages will be able to be chosen here for those who wish to do so, and everyone will be free to choose the study specialisation or the profession according to the 10th grade. We therefore propose, in our alternative budget, to re-prioritise the crowns that go into the testing of the profession of work, instead of going to the testing of practicalally directed theory in high school. The Minister of Knowledge and other representatives of the government parties have criticised our alternative budget through the media. It's not surprising all the time we re-prioritize the only school effort the government has had in recent years. The special thing is you try to represent this re-priority as a cut. It is legitimate to criticise the Christian People's Party for our priorities, but then you have to deal with facts. It is true that the Christian People's Party wants a different school policy than the Government. The government prioritizes several hours rather than more and better teachers. The Christian People's Party would rather bet on more and better teachers. There is no evidence that several hours in school provide better students. Despite this, the government has spent $1 billion on increasing the number of hours for the very smallest. So we're proposing to cut the five hours of the government into the last period, the one hour that's being added now, and the eight hours of free SFO. This priority is a general settlement with the school policy that has been pursued in the last five years, which seems to continue as long as we have a red-green government. We show with our budget what you could have put on in school if not the only rewarding thing was to spend more hours. Instead of increasing hours, we will be able to increase teacher density, quality development in high school, actions related to voluntary community and voluntary counselling, action posts to limit the drop-out in secondary education, attempts at introduction years for newly-trained teachers and attempts at practical theory in high school, to mention something. We also believe that good cooperation between home and school helps to give students the best conditions for a good learning environment. That is why, in this context, it is more important to improve the interaction between home and school than between SFO and school. So we're suggesting re-disposal of 6 million. to test for the development and testing of models of better school-school interaction with the school leisure system, for an attempt to develop and test models for better home-school interaction. Awareness of the role of home, both at school and at parents, could lead to a greater degree of social cohesion. It is important to actively involve all parents and provide knowledge of the benefits of good cooperation between home and school. All parents can play a central and active role in children’s learning. The budget adopted today also continues the government's lack of investment in the university and higher education sectors. For the sector, it is particularly provocative that this has happened at a time when there has been a adventurous growth in the Norwegian economy, but the large space for action is not used to secure the future through research and education. The university and higher education sectors are still struggling with low basic appropriations following the government's rest cuts. We are therefore proposing to increase the basic appropriations by 175 million. kr in line with the wishes of the sector and to create 100 new scholarship positions. It is also unreasonable for students to receive support only until May all the time of exams to a large extent in June. This gives many a difficult economic situation during this period. In particular, all the parties on the Stortinget have joined in to extend the aid to 11 months. Now we give the opportunity to follow the promises of the program and the election campaign. We have a proposal to introduce 11 months of study support from the autumn of 2010. The government has systematically de-prioritised the appropriations for the Norwegian Church over several years. As a result, because of the government's lack of appropriations, several bishops will now have to cut off posts, leave posts vacant, cancel religious services and, in addition, postpone funerals. I mean, it's the People's Church government is at risk when it doesn't correct the serious economic situation. The Christian People's Party also proposes this year to grant 30 million. kr extra to the services to facilitate the situation. We are now in the phase where the reform of CPR, which has been held up by everyone, is to be stepped up to 250 million. kr in 2003-krona. There is a need for a much more offensive effort. There are still many large prostheses without funds, because this costs. A cut of five million. kr in what has been normal escalation, will notice a lot in the Church. The Christian People's Party proposes to re-press the escalating of the funds by 20 million. Extra kroner. The Council of State has defended itself that the Church has no reason to be dissatisfied, because they have received fresh funds for the first time. It's liberating honesty. The Church has been down-prioritized for four years, while the rest of the state budgets have seen an adventurous increase in all areas. What does the Government want with the Church? Is it not an objective that it should be present in all communities? Doesn't it need priests? Should the form of faith training apply only to any congregation? The new Council of Churches has a formidable job ahead of her when she goes into budgetary negotiations that will be far more gloomy than this government has been accustomed to. Then we also get the fasit of how much the state/church agreement means for this government. I would like to thank the Committee for its work. A new committee has managed to unload a new budget in the port. We have some political disagreements, and it's still going to be four years where we're going to have tough political challenges to each other. But together, I think we have a common goal of creating more knowledge, having a people's church that stands strong and a good higher education. I take up the suggestions where the Christian People's Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e710	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e715	When the Stortinget dealt with Culture for Learning in 2004, the then government, including the Christian People's Party, wanted to further develop the primary school, among others. by strengthening the stage of childhood. It was therefore proposed to increase the number of hours during childhood, in particular during the first steps. They thought that such an extension was necessary, both for professional and educational reasons. Today, the Christian People's Party will cut dramatically during the hours of childhood and believes that the government is giving priority to mistakes when we prioritise, among other things. hour extension. Is it so to understand that the Christian People's Party represents one policy of position and one policy of opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e722	No, that's not right. But what has happened since 2004 is that it has been applied quite a lot more hours than what was there at the time. At that time there was a pressure from the school to get a little more room, and as Tingelstad Wøien said, a little more time to dress on kids, etc. We've been through the research quite carefully to see if this will give us more learning. I can see the arguments that Aksel Hagen referred to here instead, that this solves some societal challenges regarding how we can get society to go around. But what worries me is that the Workers' Party, the Government and the Red-Greens are saying that this is going to give us more learning, and that there is going to be an answer to the challenge of learning to read and write and calculate. There's no research that shows. That's why we believe it's time to stop and not give all day school to students. They need less mandatory time, more freedom and more flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e727	We believe that research clearly shows that homework is important, and that it is important to provide homework in cases where there is no working family. It's not always a mother or father sitting at home in the daytime, ready to welcome the kids and give them homework. At a time when everyone is concerned with social cohesion, related to both learning and well-being and the connection between the two, we are surprised that the Christian People's Party, almost as the only party, will not join the team and develop a good overall offer, where the parents are not disconnected, but invited to enter the SFO and school to participate in this important activity. The Christian People's Party here achieves – unintentionally, probably – through this cut, is that by not getting more hours, however, the kids get longer stay in the SFO, an SFO that gets worse and more expensive with the organization of the Christian People's Party than the government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e732	We fully agree that being present for those who do not have parents there and offering voluntary homework is important. What we don't agree with is that this is going to be a challenge for the SFO. Several representatives, especially from SV, have underlined that this is part of the dream of full-day school and mandatory SFO. There are some challenges, especially in the districts, both in terms of rushes and the presence of them. But what I haven't yet managed to get a single answer to is these extra hours are going to give more learning to the students, but where is the research that emphasizes it? Where is the research that says we get a better school with this? The Christian People's Party model is a good school, with good teachers, fewer students per year. teacher and SFO which are voluntary and of good quality. It's the good school, and not the coercion imposed by the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e739	I think it's brilliant that the representative of the Christian People's Party is involved in high school. I think we have a common understanding here. But what surprises me a little bit is that the Christian People's Party believes that practically directed theory is more important than practical work. The representative of the Christian People's Party also said that if one chooses the practical occupation, one binds himself to the same subject in high school. Then I wonder, where does it say? The point of practical work is that you should be able to try something out, find out what is appropriate, gain experience, so that you can make the right choices later on. The question is, where does this stand, and why does the Christian People's Party want a practical, correct theory in high school? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e746	Now we come back to the device. I noticed what Tingelstad Wøien said. Nothing will please me more than that I have read the education line wrong, that it is actually such that it should be a subject for everyone, that it should not exclude further running, and that it should also be possible to choose it in the same way as usual elective, if you get it back. If I have misunderstood here, it's a pleasure to lay down flat, because I think it's a good solution for the school. What the Christian People's Party wants is to get more practically corrected theory. We think it's possible to teach in a way that makes math, for example. can be used in a more exciting way than simply dosing from the tablet. What we also want is to get the electoral professions back. Today, one in high school can choose 2nd foreign language or Norwegian depression. In my time, we could choose a moped ride. We could choose typing. We could choose depression in the loop. I think that's breathing space and air breaks that both theories and practically strong students need. That's our model of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e753	The representative, Eriksen, is a very good example of ‘the gentle South’. Her mood has also contributed to a good discussion in the Committee. It is really interesting to read about the Christian People's Party's policy in the field of education, perhaps especially in the field of higher education, because it must be said that there is a striking amount of policy for the South in the comments of the Christian People's Party. I therefore thought I would allow the representative Eriksen to take the opportunity to elaborate on whether the Christian People's Party also has a policy for other parts of the country, because it is unfair that there are also important and good institutions outside this belt that are so neat down there on the sun coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e759	I'll take a copy of this and send it home! I've done my job as a South African representative. It is clear that there are a lot of other good institutions, and I understand that the other representatives of the Committee may not likewise highlight their institutions. But I want to say, when I first get this chance and the challenge, that if you had followed a little bit in the debate in the South, you'd probably have seen the South feel like it's in the blinds of the red-greens. We have few people sitting around the government table. We have a political advisor who certainly does a brilliant job, but we're not sitting around the government's table. We are not seen when the major national rounds are going on. Our University, the University of Agder, receives a grant far below what you should have had in relation to the research done there. And then when you're in a blind zone, it's actually the job of the opposition and the Agder bench to make what the government doesn't get. We also see that there are many other good institutions, but we need to open up on the blinds to the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e766	Then Stortinget has been told! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e771	When we in the Left joined this election, we defined the three major challenges for society: to create a climate-neutral society, to build the knowledge society for the future and to renew the public sector. Policy is, of course, a priority, also to be able to prioritise within a tight framework. But one thing is clear: within all three major challenges, the knowledge is equal. That's why it's important for us to make a real boost in research, higher education and knowledge at school. Our alternative budget is largely characterised by our great increase in knowledge. It is structured as follows: firstly, we have a huge increase in research and basic appropriations. When we're talking about free research, when we're talking about the innovative part of research, when we're talking about researching what we might not know we wanted to know, but as when we get knowledge on the table, what we're going to live on is essentially basic appropriations. But it's also about quality in education, giving quality to all the new students who are going into our higher education and research institutions. The quality of that education is characterised by basic appropriations. That's why it has been important for us to actually do what we said in the election campaign, to increase that allocation by 350 million. kr. The second effort in the field is research recruitment. We're facing a huge pension wave that could threaten all of Norway as a research nation. We know that we're getting more and more students into the institutions. There is therefore constantly too weak a bet from the Government on that very thing. When I last sat in this committee, I experienced SV as very pushy to the Government when it came to research recruitment, but now it's not that important anymore. I'm amazed at that. As a general rule, it is important that we, as politicians, keep what we promise. That's why we're doing it in the field of education. We get up the Research Fund to NOK 150 billion, and we get 11 months of student support. I just have to say a little bit about 11 months of student support, because that's perhaps the most amazing thing we experienced in the entire election campaign. One thing is promises, and now we see that the most common use here is the concept of ambition, but I would very much like to be around that table where all three parties sat with their party program and said that we should do this, and see who argued against it. Was it such an angel of the kind of Crown Princess, or was it anyone else who hung over his shoulder and said that this is a program post we shouldn't care about? Who is it that has argued against all three programs, all three parties' promises, all three that went into the campaign with great weight in that area? For me, it's amazing that you can negotiate away something you actually agree on. It's true, as Aksel Hagen says, that when several parties sit together, you sometimes have to negotiate away something you've been for, but being able to negotiate something that everyone has been for is a political art – but not a political art to succeed. The second initiative is the feeding effort to the left. The knowledge society that we will live on in the future will be based on new ideas: not on the old-fashioned oil, but on the knowledge of the future. That's why it's important to strengthen the Tax Fund, and it's important to strengthen the BIA. With today’s allocation, you just make sure that those in line get what you’re in line for. There are no possibilities for new areas there. I think it's very nice that the government is making so many government councils in this debate, but I think it's incredibly funny that the Minister of Industry didn't prioritize it. The third priority we have in this area is the free funding of research within the Research Council. It's not always that everything fits within the programs. It's not always like all the good ideas fit into the framework of the different programmes. It's not always such that the brilliant research ideas come right where you had planned for them to come. Therefore, the free resources within the Research Council are very important. We also have a great commitment to climate. It's about renewable energy and CO2. Here we see that we have a capacity within the sector that is not being used, and we cannot leave it unused. That's why we've added to that sector as well. Then I'll go to school. I think it's very nice that in this room there's been a consensus, at least rhetorical, that the most important thing in Norwegian school is good teachers. Good teachers are the very key to knowledge and building a good school. Good teachers are the key for children to develop their abilities. That's the point of a good school. A good school sees the individual student, sees the potential of each — what opportunities lie there — grab them and develop them. It can only be done with good teachers. This is why it is important to focus on continuing training — that you actually receive further training during a career. Today we have a pace that means we don't get to the goal, and we see that teachers have received further education, before maybe 30 years. The other thing I want to mention is recruitment. I think it would have been very healthy for Norwegian school to recruit pedagogues with a different background than just a teacher's school. That's why we have scholarship schemes and seniors, which allow us to keep the good teachers a little bit more, and we also want to put in scholarships that allow people with different backgrounds to get the good educational background to become good teachers. If there's one area where I think it's important that we put down the political campaign and invite it to do, it's out of school. We should have a big and open debate about non-response, where we listen to each other and put as many ideas in the pot as possible to see how we are going to move on. I think we're going to look at how we've developed our entire high school system, from reform 94. The heres were razed in the first post here. I think we might have to revise some of the thinking from then on. Some of the problem with high school today is that you have downgraded both education and academic education by saying that everything is equal, all the time. We see that those who dream of becoming good professionals – becoming good tradesmen and good tradesmen – almost perceive it as a degradation when one does not go the bookway. I think it's time for us to make the two races the same value, and we don't do that by making them the exact same. We do it by making them very different. We're actually doing it by jeopardizing the degree programme in crafts and other subjects. It has to get more into schoolwork. But I also think that if we're going to get rid of the drop-off, a much larger whole is needed to get it done. It’s about having a school that needs to see students — even when you meet on tough thanks. It's all about getting the health sister back into Norwegian school — which we think is important — and having good specialised educators who don't just sit and treat papers about students' problems while we give money to unskilled assistants. Now we have to get so many special teachers that they can actually be out to meet the students. Here we need an overall bet, and we need all the good ideas on the table at the same time. We hope the government adds up to one of these things. So some words also about church. I'm worried if we can keep our people's church as wide as we want. This is a development that has happened over time, there is nothing that has happened in this budget. But we now see that the church has been under pressure — both municipal economic and other pressure — which makes it difficult to keep the broad church as it is. I think it's also time to raise the political lines and make an ambition about what kind of church you want and look at what's needed to get it to – not to punish the church politically. I reacted very much to the SV's line to me where one claimed that the Left's budget was unrealistic. I expect SV to document it in his lines later – there is not a single figure in the Left's budget that has not been retrieved from the Ministry of Finance. I have to say that maybe it's a little bit like that on the sea you know others – from the time you put in the opposition and made the budget. But there are actually no points that can be pointed out that are unrealistic in the Left's budget. I don't think this is fine, at least when you don't document it. Then I'll take up the suggestions that the Left is on, and the ones that we're alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e812	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. Otherwise, the president will note that she believes the representative Skei Grande mixes the Crown Princess and the Princess in his mention of an angel – with all due respect!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e817	I'm sorry! That was by no means the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e822	I have recorded that the old school party Left look and often – even here in the hall today – tries rhetorically to present itself as the modern and forward-looking knowledge party. To say that not even Sponheim, when he left all his political pondus in an attempt to be engaged in this topic, was able to overinterpret so many. There's another aspect I've noticed lately, and it's that the Left has been strikingly close up to the Progress Party in many of the cases that have been dealt with in the church, education and research committee lately. This puzzles me a little bit because the Left tried to illustrate a political demarcation precisely against the Progress Party in the election campaign. So what does this mean? Is there an attempt from the Left to sharpen the role as a clear opposition party? Is it just symbolic politics in the absence of own policies – without real political content – or is it such that we now see the contours of a new Oslo model at national level, with the Left in the head and as glue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e836	There is no basis for saying what the representative here says, from the committee position. The left has not changed any positions in relation to what we stood for in the last period, in opposition to this government, but it is clear that going to elections with research, higher education and knowledge that was essentially not the great selection magnet. But that doesn't mean it's not important. That doesn't mean we're not going to fight for it in upcoming election matches. That doesn't mean that this will come down on the agenda any further. It just means that we have to be even more good at marketing our knowledge policy, because I think it's better for the future, it's right, and that's why we're going to do it, sail if it doesn't lead to the big electorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e841	First, a comment on what's incredible or not. I think Trine Skei Grande also sees that even if you, for example. Left, set with all the power alone, it would be impossible to enter the entire batch programme within the given budgetary framework of a given financial year. Free learning material has long been a battle cause for SV and the red-green comrades. As you can see, it is a pleasure to see that there is now almost general political outreach in the budget papers that this system has come to be, except for the Left, which in its alternative budget is struggling with money in many good directions, but which is thus withdrawing this reform and will have a need test. What's the reason for this? Is there ideological opposition to universal welfare schemes? For it can hardly be bureaucracy – that it is less bureaucratic for each student to apply for such a scholarship to buy textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e850	No, we're against the system because it's unfair. It results in that those who have mass get the same amount as those who have little. I thought SV would be on the team with us regarding such things. But I had also expected Aksel Hagen now to explain why he thought that the alternative budget of the Left was not economic. I notice that he does not use the opportunity to explain. It's actually the fact that all of our important, big stakes are about equalizing differences between people, while the system that this government is adding up to is giving the same amount to everyone. That means those who can't afford the last run, still can't afford the last run. We want someone who has bad advice to get a lot, and that whoever has good advice and can pay the books their sails, can make it seam.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e857	I would also like to take the opportunity to say that I am impressed by the multi-tasking of Skei Grande during this process, with several new tasks and new committees. But what I'm asking is that the opposition, including the Left, uses very big words, black paints Norwegian school and Norwegian education systems, and among other things. present opinions here as ‘a major pension wave that could threaten the whole of Norway as a research nation’ and that the criticisms in the comments are based on the fact that appropriations following the climate agreement are virtually non-existent, because they follow up on something that everyone has agreed on. The big paradox is that despite big words, there are only minimal changes the opposition has had imagination to do in its alternative budgets. So I wonder if the Left can point to the enormous differences – and I mean the really big differences – that make the Left Party so very different from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e865	I can mention one really big difference: one really big difference is NOK 73 billion for the Research Fund. One really big difference is NOK 2.1 billion more to the whole field of education. That's our big re-priority. It's actually a very big difference. There is such a big difference that the educational situation says it would have been very good. But what has been frightening during this process is not just what this budget and the continuation of the cutback that this government introduced in higher education and research have resulted in. The scary thing is that they say that higher education and research have to count on big cuts in the future. When we're going to tighten up, these are the areas where we're going to tighten up. We're just going to run primary school, and then there's higher education and research we're going to cut. That is what the government parties have said in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e872	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e875	I have to say that I scratch my fingers after getting involved in the debate on research and higher education, but then I spend 5 minutes on something that is the responsibility of Tora Aasland, so she comes back on it forcefully. That's something that's incredibly wonderful about being in opposition, I'll say. I've been in the Storting in opposition for 16 years, and the art of adding one million or two extras in almost every area, so that you can win that race at any time, is great. The problem is that it will not be adopted. So the basis of the budget that is now being presented to the Stortinget is a political profile that we are fully committed to. I have to say that I am jumping above the decibel level to the Right, and over something that I perceive as a debate that has gone quite out of date. If we were to sum up what has happened in the knowledge debate over the last few years, it's that the Right has put its own kennels on the boat, and that there's a red-green SV-led profile of what is now very broad consensus in the knowledge field. It is very rare that the Right challenges us for more commercialisation and privatisation of Norwegian school. We stopped it; there is no cry out of neither students, teachers, nor parents about the more commercialization of Norwegian school. That's right, so they don't talk about it. There is also no call for more ranking in Norwegian school. Right many of their primary positions in this area, but it's very rare we hear about it now. On the contrary, the right’s proposal for national tests was poorly professional and tried to be carried out at the head of teachers, students and parents in Norwegian school, with the aim of ranking. It led to a wild insurrection, not legitimacy. Therefore, SV took a break in this, along with the red-green government, found a form of it, and has now carried out a test scheme that gives goals and meaning in Norwegian school in a completely different way. That's very good. But it's not right-wing policy – it's SV policy to have done this. It was absolutely necessary to have a critical approach to how national tests were to be carried out. So I want to say that then there might be a disagreement with the Right in this area, and it's that they want us to publish the results for national trials in such a way that they invite for ranking. We believe that this is simplifying what can be achieved through national tests, because it is much more limited than what is often mentioned in the debate. I'll be happy to come back to it, but the rest of my post I intend to use on non-response. The debate that the representative Aspaker tried to raise, namely that there is a contrast between the learning environment and academic achievements in school, went well into cambrosilur. After all, we are all aware in all the workplaces that well-being and good cooperation, clear leaders, which teachers should be in each classroom, provide a good basis for learning. These things are playing together. It's not like there's contradictions. So there's a lot of concern, and the absence is the most worrying. It has been stable high for 15 years – 30 pst. by high school students do not complete. We know that those who do not complete high school and only have primary school are more vulnerable to unemployment, are more often ill-appointed, are more often disqualified, etc. Here we're talking about something that we don't get, but that if we had done it, would have had a big impact on the individual, on society, on the economy and on everything for many, many years to come. Full childcare is a very good starting point, because early work is also about preventing absences. Let me say one more thing about kindergartens: I don't mean kindergartens are going to be schools. I just believe that the value of preschool education is going to permeate the kindergartens, but that there are a lot of opportunities there to support children's development. Early school effort from 1 to 4. class is about early capture of those who are struggling to crack read codes and numerical codes, and to quickly insert the effort. It's working. Focusing on high school, I very much agree. I was out last night talking to students who have been on trial in the field of employment. We need to develop that further, and we need to use it in such a way that the other subjects are also turned into more practical approaches. We have now received results from the pilot projects that have been in connection with practical letters. We know that the dropout among the students has gone down dramatically. Two-thirds of them want to take a diploma in the usual way. So to the teacher, the teacher is crucial. Fortunately, there is now a broad consensus on strengthening teacher training – continuing training. However, those who believe that it is only to put more on for further education and training have not come to realize that some of the restrictions on using the offer of continuing education and training are the lack of teachers and the lack of temporary workers. So it's unlikely that these means of continuing training will be used if you don't have the opportunity to get more teachers. This is therefore interrelated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e898	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e901	I had the pleasure of campaigning with and against Øystein Djupedal – last in 2005. He was crystal clear in his speech when it came to publishing any results of tests, national or not national, I would say. I have experienced well, partly because of leakages and partly because of deliberate publication by the Education Directorate, that more and more information from the national tests has benefited the public. I'm very happy about that. But I get very skeptical when I hear the statements of the Council of State today, because it may sound like the information that it's okay that she, the Directorate of Education and the Rectors, have, for a whole lot, not to feed the population – the taxpayers and the parents. Why is the Minister of Knowledge so afraid that ordinary people get knowledge of the state of public school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e908	The results of the national tests are published in accordance with the Public Health Act. However, how they are presented by education authorities is of great importance for their use. We don't present them in such a way that they organize rankings. It's because there's some of the most depressing thing going on around Norwegian schools. There are many explanatory backgrounds on how schools and municipalities do this with regard to national tests. It is also the case that they should be used and analysed in each school. They have the right to know what the results are, the parents have the right to know, and the teachers have the right to know. Everyone who does a job in each school or municipality has the right to know the results. But let's say this: a school that scores lower than the average, but that has many students where parents have little education than primary school, may well be a better school than a school that scores better than the average, but where parents generally have high education. So measuring what the school's effort is is what's important when schools are going to review the results of the national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e915	Mahatma Gandhi once said: "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight with you, and you win." Governments used their posts to go hard on the Right and the Advance Party's wishes for the introduction of national tests. But the bourgeois habit. It was national tests. The discussion now concerns publication of the results. That's not what the Council of State and the Government want. At the same time, we see that it's up to VG and other major newspapers to inflate and make their own comparisons. Then you cannot get the quality assurance that you could get if, for example. the directorate provided the same figures, to which everyone is given access. So my question is, can the Council of State elaborate on the big difference between what we in the Advancement Party and the Right want, that the Directorate provides the right representation of the figures that appear, and what is the situation today, that it is posted on the Internet, and that commercial actors such as the VG can present their own results and measurements?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e925	It's a brilliant quotation from Gandhi that the representative Hanekamhaug is now coming along. I have used it many times myself, especially in the context of kindergarten development, because it was a controversial matter that people were actually against in their time. But now we have full coverage – we've got it. In the case of national samples, they have not been carried out in the form proposed by the Right Party and the Advance Party. There is another device on the samples. They are published differently. The problem of presenting them in such a way that one gives the impression that ranking and competition between schools – which I believe is the difference between how the Progress Party and SV and the Government view this – is itself a driving force, we have no faith in that. We cannot prevent others from using public information in this way. But for us, it is important to say that the results of national tests must be used in each school and in each municipality in a sense, so that you can see where the school is going to make a difference, because there are so many other factors that affect the results of national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e932	The state councils later clearly believe that attack is the best defense. I strongly distance myself from the charismatic representation of the Higher School Policy of the Council of State. The right has never raised the issue of neither ranking nor commercialisation of the school. The right is determined by its school policy, while the SV is moving. Governments themselves have called for only a sample of students to be tested — today she stands up and defends the testing of all students. SV has twice programmed free school meals – and breaks the promise sovereign twice. SV has left grades in high school – Soria Moria insists that there should be grades in high school. What does the Minister of Knowledge think about her being an SV leader is now set to implement a policy that her party is obviously totally opposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e939	It is not in SV's program that SV is against grades in high school. I'm absolutely sure we're getting right in terms of the relationship between learning and nutrition, in the long term. It's something that more and more people are becoming aware of. The smallest proposal in this draft budget is, of course, the Right's proposal to remove fruit and vegetables in Norwegian school. On the day right it takes away from its own meetings, I think maybe Norwegian students will have a little more hearing for the proposal. Then the representative perceives it quite correctly, and that was not exactly – what to say – something kose insert representative Aspaker kept in relation to SV either. I think it's refreshing with a little conflict in the school debate, for my part, but it's quite wrong that the Right now has heard about the things that they themselves promoted as their focuses in school policy. There is no call after several private schools, so the Right is low on it. And the national tests have not been carried out as requested by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e946	After she became a minister of knowledge, the Council of State has made a lot of statements, and one of them is that she wants to red tape the teacher's role and catch the so-called time thieves that the teachers are struggling with. At the same time, we feel that there is a proposal from the Education Directorate that requires the removal of positive and negative characters, i.e. that all sub-characters should be removed from Norwegian school. It is definitely a ban that means more bureaucracy, more writing and much more work for teachers. It also means more imprecise feedback to the students. We have a character system where all parties are familiar with what kind of signals it gives, and what that means. Is this a proposal that the Council of State stands behind, or does she consider withdrawing the ban, which neither teachers nor students understand the background?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e952	I also supported that information about the pluses and the negatives, so I will examine that matter a little bit more closely. But the point about rating is that there's a little bit more than a 3 or a 4, with or without plus, because it's important that students get feedback about what they're going to do. Some of the things we know that we are poor in Norwegian school are assessments. The teachers say they get too bad feedback from the principal, the students say they get too bad feedback from the teachers. So the teachers complement a number character with a more detailed message to the students about what's good, and what they have to work on, it's not unnecessary bureaucracy. There should be precise feedback, which makes the student more aware of where you are related to your own learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e957	It would have been tempting to comment on SV's perception of being in opposition, but I will leave it. I've been worried about the content of the school debate. We've gone all the way out of the way by talking about private schools. We have run out on the wrong track by just talking about food and not food. So the council says something about what's been called out in school. The Christian People's Party does not feel that there is a cry, either from research environments or from the school, about this number-of-hour increase that this government has agreed to. And there's one thing that's surprised me a lot: why does SV want to go in for the 6-hour day for adults, while for the kids, it's wonderful with all day school? We're recording that a lot of trial arrangements are being arranged on a 6-hour day. Will the Council of State now also have some trial schemes with shorter school days for children, to see who really learns the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e966	This could have been a good point if it was that SV would have a 7 1⁄2 hour day for schoolchildren, but it's neither SV's nor the government's policy. I am very impressed with the Christian People's Party's alternatives in this budget, when you propose to take away five hours at primary school and argue that you want a more practical approach. First of all, there's a cut-off proposal of almost $1 billion, and second, these five hours in minus will lead to fewer hours for teachers to work on the subject with the same syllabus. It means less practical approach, it means fewer trips, and it becomes less possible to get to this in a varied and exciting way, adapted to each individual student. That being said, I agree with the discussion in relation to what we are going to do in the future. There's something about the teacher's density in the hours you're going to have – how to adjust and find the right balance, how to ensure better quality in the SFO, and how to get to the content of the hours of free homework. Within a mindset around a whole school day, these balances have to be made. But that the Christian People's Party budget proposal should be the way to go, I do not understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e975	In fact, I thought that I was going to brag a little bit of the state council posts, at least at one point, and that was the focus on apostasy, which I think is becoming very important. I think it's going to be a huge challenge while the Council of State sits. I have, together with Abid Q. Raja, presented a number of proposals in the Stortinget in a separate Document No. 8-proposals, on measures to be taken. In my post I said that here we need a great political effort where all ideas must be put on the table. So my question to the Council of State is, is she interested in having such a political virtue, or are the red-green ones going to do what they usually do, that they decide, and that's what they do? Or is it so that we from other parties can actually contribute some good ideas, as we have tried to do in our Document No. Eight proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e980	I do not recall all the individual proposals in document No. The 8 proposal, so I have to make a reservation about it, but the large numbers of drop-outs we have in high school are a much bigger social problem than what is reflected in the public debate. It's a difference challenge. There are much bigger class divisions in Norway than most people think – we see so much difference in how to meet on the labour market later in life if you have primary school and not more than that. So I'd like to raise that debate up. We've done a lot of things that can help – many of those things we don't know about until years have passed. We have 16-18-year-olds today that we can make an effort to prevent the problem in the long term, but we also have some adults who were undereducated when they were young people themselves, and who we know have a much greater chance of being dissatisfied if they only have primary school. There I am also absolutely sure that a much larger pressure can be inserted. So I'd like to have a big, public debate on this and a good and good idea from other parties, and then we can come back to the individual proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e985	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e988	The right to freedom of belief and life is a fundamental human right. Freedom of belief and life means that the individual has the right to believe what he or she wants, to express and to live in harmony with his or her faith, to change his or her faith, and to have a view of life that involves not having any religious faith. The fact that we live in a society where people have different religions is a question that addresses our entire welfare society. The school has done a lot in recent years to take care of the diversity of life that exists among their students. Hospitals have increasingly taken into account the fact that people there have different religions. Not too long ago, I gave a prize to a lady who had worked with several different nationalities in the care of dementia. Here we are not good enough in all areas of our welfare society, which should increasingly take into account that people have different religions. It's about respect for each one. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we are just calling for a contribution to the creation of more life-synthesis neutral serums. It's not so easy for anyone who loses their love and who may not belong to any community of life at all, that there's no room where you can have a last moment with their very closest. We say that the welfare society should take care of us from cradle to grave, but we are not good enough to take care of the people of a society characterized by many religions, as it is today. In the Oslo area is now approx. 8 pst. of the population members of religious and life views other than the Norwegian Church. And about half of the municipalities only have church buildings that are suitable for burial rituals, even if you do not belong in the Norwegian Church. So here we have to make a lot of effort in terms of digging, and also in other areas of our welfare community. The task of the State is to contribute to strengthening and protecting freedom of belief and freedom of life. In Norway, the country has an objective of pursuing an active, supportive belief and life-view policy and of actively promoting religious and life-seeking activities. Norway is in a special position to provide financial support to the religious and life views. We have a grant scheme that ensures a high level of economic equality for all religious and life-seeking communities in Norway. In 2008, it was approx. 400,000 eligible members of religious and life views outside the Norwegian Church – there will be grants to more than 600 religious and life views. More than half of these are members of Christian religious communities. The Catholic Church and the Pentecostal movement are the two largest groups, approx. 20 pst. are members of Islamic religious communities and 19 p.m. are members of life-vision societies. In the attitude of the state and the Norwegian Church, the Stortinget points to the need for an overall belief and life-view policy, and that such a policy must primarily affect the various practical aspects of the functioning of the religious and life-view societies in Norway. In accordance with the position of the Grand Government, the Government will present a case of belief and life-view policy in dialogue with the religious and life-view societies, with a view to creating a comprehensive policy in this area. The Ministry of Culture and the Church, which changes its name if not for too long, administers a grant scheme for privately owned church buildings. The aim is to give religious communities outside the Norwegian Church, private foundations and voluntary organisations within the Norwegian Church the opportunity to build church buildings with lower self-financing. The name of the grant scheme may seem somewhat misleading, as “church buildings” are primarily associated with the Christian faith, but the arrangement thus includes construction, or parts of building, which a religious community uses to exercise its religious faith. In practice, the scheme has helped to finance a wide variety of religious buildings — from small prayer houses to large mosques. For the Government, it is important to contribute to dialogue and cooperation between the religious and life views communities in Norway. Openness and conversation promote mutual understanding and contribute to respect for inequality and common values on which our society is to build.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1007	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1010	Fortunately, in Norway, we have freedom of religion, which means that we have a diversity of life - vision organisations. These are also supported by the State budget, as the Minister quite rightly says. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we propose the deletion of entry 76, the contribution to advice on faith and vision of life. We're transferring the same amount of crowns to Item 70, Grants to the belief and life-view societies. The reason for this is that we believe that the Stortinget is not going to grant money to these umbrella organisations. The Progress Party believes that it is the religious communities themselves that must be given the responsibility to grant to their organisations. Will the Council of State consider giving the communities of faith and life responsibility to finance their own umbrella organisations, which they hope they have chosen at their own discretion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1017	I believe that today, when we have several different religions and views of life, we have a responsibility as politicians to contribute to dialogue between these religious and life-view societies. Therefore, it is important for the State to finance these umbrella organisations. You might get the impression that there are paper mills, but there are places where people meet and exchange their experiences. These umbrella organisations have greatly contributed to providing important policies and premises for policies, and have given me and others of my colleagues challenges as to how we should contribute to a diversity of beliefs and life in Norway. So I think it's a very important system that contributes to dialogue, and that's what I'm going to help promote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1022	Just to comment a little on the last exchange of lines: after the election campaign we have had on the clarity of religion and religious freedom, it is almost a little joy to hear that it is the red-green ones who respond to what the Christian People's Party would want the Progress Party to stand for – just as it has been said. But I have a little alarm message to the Council of State. It is based on the fact that for the first time in the ministry, the law of trudom and ymist Anna and the Norwegian Church has been broken. It's not that we don't have a competent state council, I'm experiencing a good cooperation with the state council on understanding this field. But I'm still worried that this will cause the treatment of the Norwegian Church as a religious community to be weakened. To what extent does the matter referred to by the Council of State in its statement be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1030	This is well taken care of by the close cooperation I have with the Minister of the Church. I think it's just an advantage that in this work, where there are different interests, we also go into this work with slightly different perspectives on the policy we're going to pursue. It gives wider anchoring. But it is also true that since I am not a member of the Church of State, I cannot be responsible for church policy, it is contrary to the Constitution. But there is nothing in the Basic Law that says that I should be deprived of the opportunity to control religious and life views. It would have been very imprincial, in case. But in the future, when we get a new state-church settlement, it's no longer so that you can make that kind of demands to the members of the government. But I think it's a strength for us in the future to have two state councils that are very concerned with religious politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1037	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1040	Following the adoption of the broad church agreement in Stortinget on 10 April 2008, the Norwegian Church is facing the greatest change in the framework of the state church system since 1814. The agreement implies that we are on our way to a distinction between state and church, so that the Church itself appoints bishops and proselytes. The church must still be a church of the people and have a special position over the state. Over a thousand years, the Church has been involved in expressing Norwegian culture, history and social life in good and bad. On the other side of 80 pst. of the inhabitants are members of the Church. In church acts such as baptism, confirmation, weddings and funerals, it turns out that the Church is used by a large majority, which in turn helps to maintain the Norwegian Church as a popular church. In today's multicultural societies, knowledge of one's own faith, religious identity, values and traditions is very important for new generations. Understanding and being safe on one's own identity may give greater understanding to those who have a different belief or outlook on life. With the significance of the Church for both active and more sporadic churchgoers, it is therefore of great importance that the majority government realises that the reform must be followed up with the necessary financial appropriations to facilitate the success of church reform. The objective of maintaining the spiritual service of the Church of Norway in all congregations shall be to present the service in all communities. Appropriations for the Government, inter alia: performance is too scarce and therefore this objective cannot be achieved. The Norwegian Church is faced with major challenges in terms of performance, both of keeping priests in service, of recruiting new job vacancies and of setting up more posts to meet the high demand of more performers. I would like to remind you of the background of the precarious situation in which the pastor's ministry is. In the last ten years, two major reforms have been carried out to improve the working situation of the clergy. In 2001, the so-called Friday Agreement was implemented. It meant that the priests had reduced their working time from six days to five days a week, and should thus have almost equal working time to other workers. This agreement meant that the service was reduced by 17 p.m. and gave a reduction of approx. 233 years' work for in-service workers. New provisions were introduced for the provision of the services in 2004. This meant that the services were reorganised, so that the priests were subsequently employed in the prostitutes and not, as in the past, in the past. The courts were largely given administrative tasks. It was these new provisions that later got the name proste reform. The reform resulted in 106 pros being halved in active working hours, representing a reduction of 53 performers. During the same period that the Church has lost working time corresponding to 286 performance positions, it has been added to approx. 100 new annual shifts in the service, i.e. a reduction of 186 jobs. This does not take government parties into account in their budget. Instead, it is said that there are 100 more priests now than it was ten years ago. This is certainly true, but it was before these reforms were carried out in relation to working time and the proste reform. Proste reform is now considered to be carried out in all dioceses, and the leadership of the prosthetics is strengthened in accordance with the reform. Several national and regional meetings have been held for the prosthetics, and in this way the reform is described as positive. But the purpose of the reform, which was to improve the working day of the priests so that they could join wider and closer working communities in addition to being able to specialise, is not feasible. The large amount of work on the individual pastor and reduced appropriations for the performance over several years has led to a lack of performance, making it impossible for the pastors to participate in the offer offered by the proste reform. In its note on the proste reform, the majority, consisting of the government parties, say: ‘By means of the proste reform, better management and cooperation between the prosecuting priests have been facilitated. The majority believe that further efforts must be made in the future to exploit the opportunities offered by the reform, inter alia, with a view to strengthening the follow-up and management of the individual pastor.» If the parties to the government see that follow-up and management are to be carried out within the financial framework with which they benefit from the performance in this and in previous years' budgets, there will in any case be even less time for the pastor to engage in active church activities. Since the parties to the Government did not wish to grant the necessary means of compensating for these reduced posts, the availability to individuals has been reduced. Church acts such as funerals are not always carried out under the law, and anyone can well imagine what extra burden this entails for those who have lost one of their loved ones. Thus, the reform has not improved the working situation of performers. In the context of a question I asked the Minister of the Church, who was concerned about whether she was comfortable with the development of the Norwegian Church, where we experience the cancellation of religious services and that other church activity has been reduced because of the lack of wage resources, the minister pointed out in his reply up to several times the importance of the Church's having budgetary discipline. The Progress Party is also concerned that both the Church and others should respect budgets. But unlike the Government, the Progress Party is a realist and assumes that in principle enough money will be allocated to solve the legal duties and carry out the activity imposed on the Church. When the Government states that all congregations in the Norwegian Church are to have permanent spiritual service so that the service is present in all communities, and it does not, however, take into account that the number of performance positions is reduced by 186 positions, the Government may not have understood the problem facing the Church and its members, considering that there is a need for the priest's services both in the Church and in family matters. At the hearings held by the Committee, both the Union and several different organisations expressed concern at the lack of performance. It's not useful to grant 2 or 10 million. to recruitment measures where there is no money available on the ordinary salary or temporary budget to pay the benefits. A cross of thought is also that the formidable pressure exerted by the clergy leads to the cessation of many and others. The party of progress is committed to the content of the church settlement and sees the importance of maintaining the Church of Norway as a people's church, where the priest still has an important role to play. I therefore refer to the alternative budget of the Progress Party, where we propose to increase the appropriations for the services by 30 million. kr. This amount will not meet the real need, but is the amount for which a person expects to be able to hire during 2010. We can constantly read about churches that are failing — roofstones fall down, and at all events many of the cultural treasures, as the churches are, are in a sad constitution. The municipalities are constantly told that the government has increased the municipal budgets so much that they are given priority to maintaining and renovating the churches out of their own resources. The same argument meets municipal politicians when other tasks are to be solved. For the Progress Party, church buildings are an important part of our national values and our culture. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to strengthen the post Grant for church activities in the municipalities by 30 million. kr. The Progress Party has visions for the Norwegian Church and therefore facilitates in its draft budget that the prerequisites for an open and inclusive people's church can be realised, and that the clergyman should still be a central part of the Church. Unfortunately, there is little in the government budget that shows that the effort is proportionate to the objective. It may seem that the government is more concerned with granting money for pilgrimages and turning the Church into a cultural house, and perhaps rather without the presence of priests there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1077	Norway is now becoming a significant supplier of competence and knowledge worldwide. We are constantly seeing examples of activities that position themselves with unique knowledge-based solutions and are at the forefront of international affairs. A fantastic situation for a small nation, and a great challenge for us as national politicians. How are we going to follow up? How are we going to ensure recruitment to more and more businesses and growing businesses? There is no doubt that high-quality higher education is clearly needed. The right takes this seriously. We have heard the unmistakable cry from institutions and organisations about increased basic appropriations to ensure the quality of education, and we have therefore invested 250 million. kr more than the government in our alternative budget. An important element is also that the increase in the number of students gives an immediate increase in costs, while increased resources only come when results have been obtained from the new candidates. This presents a liquidity challenge over a growing period. Universities and higher education institutions must have the security of the basic economy in order to preserve and develop the environments of competence. This is the very essence of a qualitative education. The right has also taken seriously that top modern equipment is a prerequisite, and has added 25 million. kr where the Council of State refused to contribute to equipment on a new campus at the University of Agder, and 5 million. kr for equipment at the saturation dive training at the Bergen High School. For us, it is both incomprehensible and surprising that a government that spends so much money in its budget has not in any way used it to give a real boost or signals about investing in competence and knowledge – what we need to strengthen our position as a knowledge nation. When knowledge is not the winner of such a budget, how are we going to think that it could ever be in a budget from the red-green parties? Increasing youth and business needs for more and more staff with higher education combined with increasing unemployment will undoubtedly lead to a significant increase in the need for places of study. I have on several occasions challenged the Council of State to submit to the Storting the plan of the Government to meet this. For the time being, I have not been confirmed that such a plan exists. I also understand that when I see in the budget that there is no lack of increased investment in building mass to accommodate the tens of thousands of new students who will have room in the coming years. When I'm a little bit careful to figure out the need, it's because the government itself is still operating on new numbers. It is strange that the need for new sites should be halved in six months. Young people are probably the same, and unemployment has only increased. I have to admit that to me it seems as if there is a need to adapt the reality of the budget. I guess that should be the opposite. The reality is out there no matter what curvature you do in the calculations. Now, there's a need for bets that take that reality seriously. State Council Aasland has correctly tried to suggest other measures to solve the challenge: we need to use vacant spaces – yes, that's nothing new? We need to send more people abroad – the funding system administered by the Council of State does not invite them to do so. The right-hand side has added 5 million. kr to support the fresh man year in the United States and the start of Bachelor's degree in non-Western countries. It was perhaps an idea and a good start that the government parties supported this. It seems that the Government has failed to agree on a comprehensive policy for higher education where budgetary appropriations and incentives can follow up all the promises and signals given in the election campaign. The government has simply not delivered and no longer has credibility. It is serious in view of the young people who are to be equipped to take responsibility for further investment and value creation. Finally, I want to remember the serious situation the Church seems to be in. A total increase has given the Church major challenges and started reforms that require a lot. The changes ahead of us will require a robust church with resources available. That is not the case today. We must therefore ensure that there are enough posts to give the Church the opportunity to be the people's church it has been given the task to be. The right has added 10 million to its alternative budget. kr extra for this and would have probably found more if we didn't have to use the red-green budget as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1100	I am pleased to be able to record that once we have turned down the volume button to the opposition, there is not so much disagreement about the size of the use of money and the arrangements for policy within the higher education and research policy. There is a quality and an unconditional strength in the development of Norway as a knowledge nation. The Labour Party and the Government have great ambitions and expectations for our education and research policy. It is linked to the fact that we are going to solve the major challenges both nationally and globally, and then we are actually responding precisely to education and research policy. That being said, I must be allowed to point out that this is not a new situation or a new issue for us in the Labour Party. Work placement is based on two basic and timeless needs. She is simply attached to the right to well-being and the right to education. It goes like a red thread through the entire 160-year-old history to the work movement, which goes back to Marcus Thrane's time. In the mid-19th century, this was one of the central issues. Therefore, we do not see this as a problem today, in 2009, either. It's a challenge in growth, says the opposition. The right-hand side is afraid of the big growth that's coming. On the contrary, this is not a problem. This is a fantastic possibility. These are students that we are more than willing to accept with open arms. That gives us a great possibility, and I want to be clear about that. This gives a great opportunity to break the historical pattern that there are far too many young parents of higher education looking for universities and our colleges. The Labour Party will not join and say no and close anyone from our universities and universities. The knowledge access should not be restricted to the elite. But although it's desirable that more young people take higher education, it's in place with a little bit of soberness, and actually a little soberness, using numbers. The opposition and some media literally go away in the student masses. They miss the overview and almost bombastically affirm that the growth over the next four years will be on the formidable 80,000 new students. Well, well, it's going to have to account for them. However, if one in addition to the demographic projection is used, it will be used as a basis. 10 pst. In fact, growth, which is ambitious, ends with 33,000 new students in the four-year period. Through a combination of the creation of multiple study places, the exploitation of already available capacity and the fact that more people should definitely study abroad, all students must experience a high level of international quality education. We're definitely not going to do what the opposition did at the end of the Bondevik period, just to cut the number of study places. So to the research part of the budget. Although Norway is also a small country in the context of research, it has achieved spectacular good results. It is said by the opposition that research in Norway is on fire. That's bullshit, of course. The reality is that all recognised measurement parameters show that the results in research are very good in Norway and in good progress. For example, it was said – a bit of a joke – that we were able to achieve the goal of 1 pst. of GDP in the second half of the month of April 2010. That's nice. But even if the results for the sector are good, and even if the promises of DKK 1.7 billion are historical and record high, there is something to be taken up. Observations and feedback from the sector indicate that a person experiences the freedom of action and the ability to make independent research priorities as required. So this we have to take care of. The opposition's medicine is as usual. Their mantra is: 'More money, more money!' Fantasy no longer stretches. To that it's saying that everyone is for more money. It's actually the easiest thing in the world to allow more money – and most people will be very happy about it too – but it doesn't solve our challenges. And that's not what this is about. Should we also be able to achieve good results in the future, we are forced to ask ourselves: What structural changes can we do? There's a lot to do -- I'm not going to go into any detail right now. I would just like to say that this House can, with a good conscience, adopt the draft state budget, and in this way it notes that we are on the way to raising the country as a knowledge-based society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1119	Principality is a well-known phenomenon among several political parties, a phenomenon where the most important is not the quality of education, adapted to training or the best of students, but to hold on to their principleal resistance to, for example: private. It is a phenomenon that has been present in the Norwegian school policy debate for several years and unfortunately does not seem to be going away with the first. Reading the Committee's position on page 51 is sad, as it shows the clear position of the government parties – when they do not want to take part in the following remark: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will point out that in-service schools are an important complement to public schools. These members are concerned that everyone should be able to choose such a school, irrespective of the private economy.’;» It is sad to know that only a minority in this room are concerned that all children in Norway, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet, will be allowed to choose which school they want to attend. For us in the Progress Party, this is not a matter of principle about public or private schools. For us, it is about opening up competition in the school sector, a competition that will improve the quality of the school sector as a whole — including in public schools. For us, it does not matter whether private or public actors run the school, as long as that school offers a good offer to our children – also in the future. We want a free school for everyone. The public shall fully finance all pupils' education, irrespective of who runs the school they choose. That's where the riddle of some of the political parties comes in. It may seem that the most important thing for them is who runs the school, not how the school is run. What the representative of Aasen said in his speech, that everyone should have access to education, sounds a little bad when we know that freedom of choice only applies to those who have enough money. Because of the government's mistreatment of private and public schools, private schools were forced to take school money, as compensation for the lack of support. It creates a situation where only those with rich parents have the opportunity to choose school — a situation where some with pay at the Council level can obviously buy out of public schools and enter private schools. Is it really too much demanded by us in the Progress Party that Anna, the single mother, with three children, be given the right to choose the same school as the Prime Minister? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has a clear profile in its budget. We give greater participation and more rights to parents and students. It is not we politicians who sit in this Chamber who know best what choices others have to make. When it comes to children – the children I will have in the future – I want it to be my choices that determine their everyday lives, not this hall. Economic equality and free choice of schools will create competition between schools. In order to be attractive, schools have to be good in areas that are important for students — such as: a good psychosocial environment, more practical subjects, adapted education or alternative pedagogics. The Progress Party is very pleased that bullying has been put on the agenda and that there is cross-political agreement that this is important. The Minister of Knowledge has called for the launch of a collection of facts and information on the topic. That's good. At the same time, however, we see that none of these measures will have immediate effect. Exploratory work and reports are due to be completed in two years’ time — and a decision will be taken at the earliest in three years’ time. The progress party thinks it's too long. Today there are 40,000 children who are afraid to go to school. Children who are subjected to severe mental or physical violence every day do not have time to wait two to three years, until our reports are completed. We in the Progress Party have promoted several measures that will have immediate effect, such as: a national coordination of existing student representatives or a genuine financial right to compensation for parents and pupils. At the same time, we believe it is unreasonable that today the bullying victim is most often forced to switch schools in a bullying situation. The progress party has always been concerned with protecting the victim, and we clearly believe that the bully is the one to replace the school. These measures do not need further dissemination and information – these are actions to be launched now to help these children now. One in five students leaves high school without being able to read and write well enough to function properly in the business world. One in three drops out of high school. We have a school system that's built up as an A4 model, where very many fit in, while those that don't fit in become school losers. A 2007 and 2008 study showed that a total of 90 pst. by schools do not meet the requirements for adapted training and special education. 90 pst. of the schools in Norway violates the law! We have to go away from the naïve idea that everyone should be equal, that everyone should have equal education – that everything should be equal. It's time to open your eyes and realize this: we're not the same, we're unique! We have to get away from the government's unit thinking about school and move on to a school for the ones. Because that's what the students are -- they're all one in each of their fields and in each of their subjects. If a student is good in math and good in weight than the average, that's good! He will then receive extra follow-up, extra tasks and be stimulated to become even better – not like today, when he is pressed down because everyone is going to be the same. If a student is struggling with math, he should be adapted to training and stimulated to learn in his own way — not like today, when many fall outside at an early stage and perhaps never come up again. The Government has presented a proposal for the introduction of a probationary system of practical upper secondary vocational training. We in the Progress Party see that the school is perceived as too theoretical for many, and that more people need a practical approach. In the past, we had a practical subject in high school. We're going to reintroduce that as a permanent arrangement. At the same time, we need to reduce the theoretical proportion in professional directions. We have to respect the fact that when a youth has chosen to walk on the car mechanics line, it is precisely because he wants to learn how to fix cars – not to learn north-east or get in-depth knowledge of poetry analysis. A lot of good work is done, but the students have to have the opportunity to do what they're best at, and we have to respect the choices that students make. But as I said, a lot of good work is, and is, done. A total Storting is now working for the fight against bullying. The lack of focus in the last four years is exacerbating the situation, but since we all now focus on it, I hope it will reverse this trend. The Progress Party has increased funding for primary education in its alternative budget, and we give priority to continuing training of teachers, fighting bullying, more professional practice and focusing on young entrepreneurship. We're increasing the grants to the private educational institutions, so that we all, not just some privileged ones, will be able to choose the school we think is best for our children in the future. The advancement party is committed to having a school adapted to each student, where the principle is not who runs it, but how it operates. We want to get away from the government's elementary school and move on to the Party's primary school. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party will support the Right's proposal to continue the established rating practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1162	Much of the debate on bets, or lack of bets, on research, is about money. The government believes that their efforts are historically high, and as they are real in the 2010 budget, they are, to a large extent, right in it. But particularly alarmingly, budgets are not growing. It happens every year, in all parts of the state budget, and in all departments. The fact that the research budget has grown slightly more in the last four years than under the Bondevik II government is also not so insanely impressive. For the last four years, the government has had an economic space without equal in Norwegian history. So has this space of action been primarily used for offensive investment in future knowledge? No, unfortunately, it doesn't. But if we now go away from the money discussion – and unlike the representative Tor Bremer, we have the imagination to do so – and look into the government's research policy, there are also other things that concern Right. First of all, the government's research policy consists of a lot of policy and less research. In recent years, the Government has been strengthening the field of research through several policy objectives and initiatives, combined with weaker funding of basic research through free resources. Free resources for free research have simply been reduced. The 2010 state budget proposal is also subject to political governance. It may seem that all new fresh money for the field has a label, and it may seem that the labels are sometimes much larger than the money that comes with them. In this way, the Government creates the impression that it is ambitious, but the truth is that the sector's space of action is gradually being defused. This is one of the explanations of the mystery that the Council of State has put down a separate sample to find the solution: how it can relate to the increase in appropriations as universities and colleges experience more pressing spaces for action. To solve this mystery is hardly going to be that hard. If the Council of State had participated in the Committee's consultations in the context of the State budget, it could have dropped the entire sample. However, the sample also has a different mandate, namely to look at how the reality of the department and the sector will match, in order to refer Aasland State Council to an interview in the evening post. There are only two options here, given an unchanged budget: that one of the parties surrenders, and gives the other one the right. Will the Council of State and the Ministry do that? Nope. That would be the same thing as admitting that your own budget is inadequate. Is there a rice behind the mirror of the sector here? If they don't say the budgets are good enough, will they? Although the Right believes that this room for action is superfluous, we think there may be some interesting discussions at the selection meetings in the future. The right is concerned with some driving rules in the field of research policy. We must make uncompromising demands on quality, and we must dare to give freedom to the field of research, so that it will be the best that competition achieves, regardless of political leadership and objectives. In cultural policy, this is called the arm's length distance principle. It is probably a good principle in research as well. Finally, a few words about the Right Alternative Budget. We're strengthening the field of research alone by nearly 400 million. kr, and we strengthen the tax FUNN scheme in business by the same amount. Within the field of research, we prioritise what the sector wants most, namely free funding – funds for user-driven innovation arenas, more scholarship and post-doc.- positions, quality measures for Younger Excellent Researchers and Centers for Excellent Research. Add Right strengthening of the basic appropriations and DKK 10 billion to increased capital in the research fund, and you get a budget that gives the sector greater levers and opportunities for offensive investment. It is a commitment that is more proportionate to the challenges and opportunities facing Norway than the government’s proposals for the State budget provide. But first of all, I would like to inform the Right that we will put a stronger search light on the Government's desire for political direction of the research field during this majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1181	‘We will bet on Norway as a knowledge society through education for all and high-quality research,’ states the Government’s political platform, Soria Moria II. The 2010 government budget proposal reflects precisely these policy priorities and underlines the Government’s willingness to invest in knowledge and research. This is what we are doing, which one would not believe when one hears the debate and especially the speeches from the opposition. Of course, knowledge is the most important response to the challenges facing society. Today, two days after the Copenhagen meeting started, it is in its place to highlight how strongly the focus is on climate research in the government's 2010 draft government budget. We have almost completed the part of the climate agreement on renewable energy, carbon capture and storage. The escalation ensures 600 million. kr annually for research in this field. In the long term too, the eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy, which constitute around 50 % of the total, will be set up. 160 million. kr of the bet, be particularly important. Through targeted research on wind, solar and carbon storage, Norwegian researchers will be able to make a decisive contribution to solving climate problems. We're good at it already. Norwegian researchers have already made important contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, including: through work at the Bjerknesenter für Klimaforschung – one of our centres for excellent research. We want to further strengthen this important environment of competence. In the follow-up to the climate agreement, the Government therefore proposes to grant new 50 million. kr for other climate research. These funds will be used partly to establish a Climate Research Centre in Bergen and partly to strengthen the NORKLIMA research programme. In addition to priority climate research, there is one other area in particular that is highlighted in the Government’s commitment to research, namely investment in research infrastructure. As of 2011, there will be a stable annual allocation of around 280 million. to the necessary equipment and infrastructure. This will give our researchers even better opportunities to create new and important knowledge. The effort to strengthen national competence is made clear through the regional research funds, which start up in 2010. These will provide good opportunities for many of our environments around the country. I note that the Progress Party and the Right did not want such a regional effort. On my side, I am proud to belong to a government that takes regional research needs seriously. The second major challenge we are facing and, as many have been in the debate, is what we call the educational wave. It is made up to some extent of a younger wave; it will increase sharply in the coming years. So we know that the proportion of these young people who want to go to higher education will be high, probably higher than today. The educational wave is also about adults. In the workplace, we see that nurses, engineers, teachers, office workers and other groups look to our colleges and universities to acquire new skills. Many take a master's degree, but many also take valuable continuing or continuing training. The Ministry estimates that demographic changes alone can increase the demand for higher education by 17 000 students until 2013. In addition, if the study bias increases by 10 pst. Over four years, this figure could increase to 33 000. I stress that these are possible development paths, which are also explained earlier in the case of other numbers that have been used, and that predictions can never be accurate. This will be discussed in full width by Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, the document that is actually the basis of the Government’s plans to meet the educational wave – for here we have plans. We're strengthening the universities and colleges with about half a billion dollars in this budget. Most of it is used to increase the capacity of students – 5,600 new places of study in 2010, including those we have already started this year. We place great emphasis on the need to be able to receive more students without doing so at the expense of the quality of education. An important quality measure proposed by the Government is 50 million. kr for cooperation, division of labour and professional concentration. The aim here is to create better research-based education by drawing on the institutions' shared resources. Cooperation is central. A strategy for this will together provide a better professional offer to the students and hopefully stimulate good professional cooperation. The 2010 government budget proposal provides more information to the government. With record growth in research of DKK 1.7 billion and with room for people in the educational wave, the government is doing the most important thing to meet the future: we're betting on knowledge. We see the educational wave as a unique opportunity. If we succeed in providing good education to more people, we are also better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. We have laid a good foundation for this in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1210	The regional research funds get me back to. Governments talked about climate and energy research. It starts with the real subjects. It starts as far as primary school, secondary school and secondary school. Today’s publication of the TIMSS survey shows that the knowledge of high school students is falling — a trend that has been going on for a few years. We know that real science needs a lot of infrastructure, and that it will be important to meet both the energy and climate challenges – also in terms of what we will live on in the future. The question then is: will the Council of State consider increasing funding for the real subjects, just to meet the major societal challenges that the Council of State itself points to? It is the case today that the real subjects come out very badly, for example. in relation to clinical subjects such as medicine and pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1219	We're going through the whole system of categorisation and grouping of support for the different education systems. I want to say that when we set up nearly 5,000 new places of study in the revised national budget this year – there were 4,600 – there were three groups that were satisfied: there were teachers, there were health professionals, or nurses, and there were engineers. There was already a real-life initiative there in view of new places of study. We've had a real science strategy for years, and we're going to continue it, of course. It's important to get both boys, and not least girls, to be interested in real science as early as possible. We take care of that part of the education through the establishment of new places of study. There I fully agree with the representative Lien, it is important in relation to many work tasks in society to bet on real science, which then includes science. This is important for example: climate research.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1227	I'm inclined to say that this was at the limit of a good answer! I'm just afraid that more real-time students can lead to, with today's funding model, poor student quality. Anyway, there are several students. I believe that the Council of State and I agree that it is a good thing for society that more people want to study. I am very pleased that the Council of State in the evening post on 30 November stated that the three-year education should be strengthened, we should have more in the three-year education, and that you don't want to go into that track that, among other things. Technology will, with more focus on five years of education. That, I think, is a perfectly correct assessment of the Council of State. But then the Council of State also says that there should be more people who need to study in the districts. So now, a relatively clear majority in the UK has said that we're going to have colleges all over the country, with the goal of getting people to study in their neighbourhood. Why should this not apply to the people of Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1234	It is an important objective for people to have access to higher education across the country. That's also one of the reasons why we don't just rate in colleges and universities, because within the discipline we're talking about now, the real subjects, the vocational schools are also an important offer. As of 1 January 2010, they will be taken over and governed by the county municipalities, which we have all over the country, and thus there will also be schools in Oslo and in the other major cities. There will be an important focus on a variety of different training courses ranging from the vocational schools and the shorter courses to the long-term courses. Here it is important that we seek a good geographical spread, so that there is closeness between the student and the offer that the student can get – also in the recognition that we across the country need that kind of competence. We need it in Oslo and in the big cities, and we need it elsewhere in the country. It's the government's policy, and I'm very pleased with the little praise I had in the representative's line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1239	I understand that the Council of State is amazed at the reality of the university and higher education sector in Norway. They experience tighter budgets at the same time as government budgets increase, at least in nominal terms, and the Council of State has set down a separate sample to investigate this mystery and try to find a solution to it. I could perhaps turn to a couple of proposals – the research effort, which requires the ownership of institutions, the lack of real-life compensation for the costs of the sector and a real decline in basic appropriations when considering the increasing number of students, which was also the subject of the Council of State. I wonder what the Council of State intends to do with the problem – for this sample will not solve any problem, even if you might agree on the description of reality. The Council of State would be willing to look at increased basic appropriations, such as: The SV has arranged for seven times more in its roll-out programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1246	In the less than two years I have been the Council of State, I have increased the basic appropriations five times. This year, we have had a marked increase in transfers to universities and higher education institutions because the government thinks it was so important to bet on new places of study. That's what we've spent most of the half billion more that we're increasing the budget by this year. But in terms of base, we're way above the cut that was many years ago. I have an objective with this working group to discuss understanding, and it is that we agree on the analyses, that we agree on how we expect the different arrangements we have with regard to places of study, with regard to scholarships, in terms of how funds for different purposes are used at universities and colleges in relation to the legislation and provisions that are. If we have a common perception of how the system works, it's okay to disagree politically and objectively. But then, at least we have a less discussion theme – it often becomes desertless discussions about how to actually expect things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1253	There has been reference to SV's program here, and there is no doubt that "increase" and "increased bet" are going on again several times. They have also mentioned the word ‘quality’ a few times — twice in the case of higher education — and here the Right fully agrees with SV. High international quality is ensured by increased basic appropriations. The budget submitted has an increase in the basic appropriations which does not even cover real costs. This doesn't need an investigation, it finds one at the SSB. The budget has an increase in student support that far from covering the actual cost increase for the students, and there is in no way a rise in the number of study places that SV and the Government have pointed out correctly. I wonder what makes the Council of States so satisfied with these results?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1262	It's tempting to get rid of the question of asking: what makes the Right so dissatisfied and so terribly negative to all the fine things that actually happen in our educational institutions, universities and colleges? We deliver: we produce doctoral degrees, we conduct high-level research, and we train students in large quantities and much more often in normal time and less time than a few years ago. These are good developments. And then we also have a system where universities and colleges are independent institutions. They have a responsibility for their own budgets, among other things. a responsibility to take account of some of the unforeseen expenditure incurred in the pay and pension sectors. However, it is an important task and an important responsibility for me to ensure that they have a good basis – and I think they do. The fact that this year it is more focused is a political choice the government has made. It is necessary to meet new places of study, while at the same time we have financial instruments that all agree on how to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1269	The financial system would have a review of it, and it would be an annex to the state budget here today. As far as I understand, it's discussed a little bit in this action space group, but then it's also been told that there's no economy, the need for either more or less economy, to be discussed there. Rumors also say that an economic group should now be set up to look at it, but you can confirm or cancel it here. At the hearing, the UH Council indicated that there were components in the system that were thought not to be in place or that were not as it should be. The annex also describes the fact that there is a historical funding system between institutions – and I don't think you dare to go into it and see how individuals get out of it. Does this mean that there is a process going on, that you do not consider yourself to be completely finished with the funding system, and that the annex that is there is an en route report?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1276	The annex to the State budget is a thorough review by the Ministry, together with a reference group, of the funding system. I hope we can agree that there are some important historical and political decisions at the root of the Quality Reform, such as. is concerned with the allocation of the basic appropriations to the various institutions. What's my important task, given that it's there as a basis, is to look at the individual components we have, make sure that we get a good count, even for the new now, collaboration. I'm very happy that we've got an opening to stimulate cooperation between the institutions. We know that many of our universities and colleges, both new and old, can be vulnerable. They need to strengthen themselves through cooperation with each other. And the 50 million. kr, which is in this year’s budget – and I hope that the Christian People’s Party supports – is helping to stimulate precisely the kind of cooperation that can make life a little easier, given many of the challenges you face, both on the research side and on the teaching side. I have great confidence that this will be a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1285	I'm glad that you think you're coming up with a common understanding, and that the Council of State can assure us that this sample is going to help sort out a debate that the Left would have wanted to be clearer about the facts. So it's an insurance that I'm happy for. What I want to ask the Council of State is really about something that the chairman of the committee said today, which I think was quite alarming. I wonder if there is an opinion about the government group, or if there is an attitude that the government also has, that when we get into an economic situation where we have to start saving, it's colleges and universities and the research that's going to bleed – it's just the primary school that's to be protected. This is a sector that has to count on large cuts in the future. Is there an understanding that is also within the Government, or is there just an understanding about the fraction of the government parties here on the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1294	I also heard the comments of the committee chairman, and I must honestly admit that I did not hear the same thing as the representative Trine Skei Grande, which she has now repeated twice in the debate. What I heard was a very responsible committee leader who continues what the government is now working on, a very important lead for budgetary work in the future, namely that there will be more urgent times, there will generally be tighter frameworks. We don't know anything yet about how we can manage it in the different areas, but we all need to be prepared that tighter frameworks can lead to other outcomes in some sectors of society. But there's no discussion that this is going to go beyond any particular sector. It is a very general and important political discussion on how to manage the country with a high quality of the measures we have, and with good opportunities for all the important goals of the Government, how to cope when we no longer have so much money to travel with as we have had in 2009. That is the big question that the government has to take responsibility for, and I hope that the opposition will also take responsibility for it. I'll fight for mine – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1299	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1303	A good school for all is the key prerequisite for a society that balances social differences, which is an arena for integration and preparation for the demanding working life of the future. Everyone must be given a good education offer regardless of how a teacher, what prerequisites for learning a person has, or where in the country where he lives. The main challenge in the future is to ensure that even more people leave school with sufficient reading, writing and accounting skills to be able to cope with further education and working life. The working life of the future will impose stricter requirements on the competence and ability of workers to change. We know that poor reading skills are the third main reason why people are excluded from work, by age and by health. To meet these challenges, more people need to go through a school run tailored to their needs, with a focus on knowledge. We need more well-trained teachers, more hours and fewer students in each class. There are big differences in our country because we have a scattered settlement. It makes school policy more complex. The challenges that Sørum has are not the same as those of Sørreisa. In the big cities, we know that housing patterns lead to some challenges for schools. In the city we're in now, there's a big social difference between the west and the east. This involves not only major integration challenges but also challenges related to, for example: school-home cooperation. In some Eastern schools in Oslo, the percentage is minority-speaking well over 90. Many of the schools address the challenges involved, including: in the case of clear school management. The school must be a more mainstreaming area. In order to improve integration, more teachers with a minority background are needed. In the smaller areas of this country, the challenge is to attract newly educated teachers and to prevent the closure of schools due to a small number of students. The main lines of school policy are determined. We will continue to develop a good common school. It's in the primary school a meeting of students with a different background than the one you own. Here one becomes familiar with different people who have a different growth than one of themselves. I reacted a little to Mette Hanekamhaug's statement in this debate today. She said that social democracy wants everyone to go through the same grinder to get out like equal people on the other side. Everyone today has the right to adapted training. We believe that a good public common school can develop talents and find the best in students. When we look at our neighbouring countries, there are probably nowhere else than in private schools people with as much background as possible, and where one becomes little acquainted with other values and opinions. The red-greens are occupied by private schools as a supplement to public school. We are not against religious or alternative pedagogical schools. Whether they are an important supplement to the public school, I can be with and discuss. I'm not sure. The aim of the Workers' Party is that the public school should be so good that private schools are not an alternative. The school has always been the subject of debate and is the policy area where most people are most concerned. It is therefore gratifying that there is little disagreement between the parties. The prerequisites of the Knowledge Lift are firm, and the focus on quality and learning is very much the same. How to achieve the objectives of quality and learning is a small difference of hue. The red-green government believes that a full school day with physical activity and homework will provide better learning and even better quality. Norwegian students score low on international surveys, but compared to other OECD countries, Norwegian students have shorter school days. In the budget that we are discussing today, it is decided to grant 241 million. kr to an extension of the number of hours at school and an introduction of eight hours of free homework. A longer day of school requires more teachers. For this reason, this government has presented a new teaching message aimed at steps, with changes in subject and structure. Where the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is involved in testing and publishing, the left-hand side talks about a whole school day, where the focus is more on what to use the results than on which school scores the highest. In this budget, the red-green parties continue to strengthen the public common school, and unlike the opposition, we have a clear plan for the school: we have increased the number of hours of childhood and increased early efforts. We're going to build the school layers on layers and rocks on rocks. We're going to cooperate with parents, teachers, students and school owners, because while the only plan on the right -- and especially the Right Party -- has for the school, is to criticize it apart and together, our plan is to build a good, public school for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1331	Last month I was a guest at the Church Meeting in Tønsberg. The church meeting in 2009 marked an anniversary; it was 25 years since the first church meeting was held. The establishment of the Church Meeting came as a direct result of the discussion of the church system conducted at the beginning of the 1980s. The church meeting was an answer to church reform demands, where the main thing was increased church autonomy. Over the 25 years since the Church Meeting was established, there has been ongoing church reform. The Church’s organisation has found new forms as more and more tasks and decisions have been transferred from political bodies to church-elected councils at central, regional and local level. The establishment of the Church Meeting in 1984, the transfer of the added responsibility of the priests to the Councils of Bishops at the end of the 1980s and the establishment of the Councils of Churches in each municipality which came under the New Church Act of 1996, are the main milestones of this work. When I pull up the main lines from the last 25 years, it's to show that the church reform and renewal work has been in a continuous process. At the same time, at the beginning of a new ageing period, we know that new and major changes have been made to the church system. On 10 April 2008, an agreement was reached between the political parties at Stortinget on how to regulate relations between the State and the Norwegian Church in the future. In the light of the agreement, proposals have now been made for amendments to all the seven constitutional paragraphs dealing today with the state church system. In other words, the implementation of this agreement will represent the most extensive changes in the framework of the state church system since we received the Constitution in 1814. Although we in Norway have a good tradition of working towards compromises, and especially in matters of overriding national importance, we know that there are political divisions in the view of the state church system. The system is understood by many as a guarantee that the Church will be preserved as a broad, open and inclusive people's church. However, many have been concerned about the problem of the closeness of ties between the state and the church, not least in terms of non-discrimination. I believe that in the church agreement we have been able to find good and balanced solutions, which meet the needs of church members for continuity and membership of the Church, while at the same time facilitating the State to continue to pursue an active, supportive policy towards other religious and life-seeking societies. The Church Agreement presupposes a reform of democracy in the Norwegian Church. The follow-up of this is now well under way. The church elections in the fall were the first of the two elections to be held before the Stortinget adopts a final system for elections to the Church Meeting and the Council of Bishops. The elections were carried out at the same time as the major elections and in line with the leaders otherwise included in the political agreement. The results show that the opening up of church elections has increased. Both the electoral system and the information system will now be carefully evaluated, with a view to further testing at the 2011 church elections. I will come back to Stortinget with a case about this. Regardless of the percentage of participants in church elections, the opening up of the Norwegian Church is stable. The church has, at the base of 3,9 million members. That's 80 pst. by the population. The emergence of church acts is high in the Norwegian population. The bands between people and church are strong. If the Norwegian Church is to be preserved and further developed as a church of the people, it depends on the fact that new generations also find their place and membership in the churches. I have noticed that an overall committee refers to the training of faith as an important prerequisite for maintaining a broad and committed people's church. The awareness of this seems to be high at all levels of the Church. The 2010 church budget is 20 million new. kr. I have noticed that the Committee is concerned with the relationship between a nationwide, open church and a pastoral service that is present in all communities. There's a context that I also want to point out. The state is responsible for financing the performance service, and the appropriations for the performance clearly represent the largest proportion of the church budget. Finally, I would like to point out the major recruitment challenges we face in the coming years. We're ready to go in and work with them. I think it's one of the most important things we can do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1355	The church is also represented and accessible to the Nordics abroad. Seafarer’s services are becoming increasingly sought and the Committee points out unanimously in a note that the Seafarer’s Church has increased personnel costs in addition to normal price developments related to changes in the tax and pension conditions of workers abroad. On this basis, the Committee asks the Government to assess the full coverage of the additional costs. I believe that the minister is also Minister of the Church of Norway abroad, or the Church of Seamans, and in this context the question will be: Will the Minister of the Church make sure to meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1360	I have registered that no increased appropriations have been proposed in the Committee for this purpose. It is true that there has been an increase in compensation of employees related to the activities of the Seafarer Church. Therefore, in the years 2006–08, we have compensated for additional expenditure through increases in the State grant. Otherwise, of course, I will make sure to be Minister of Church also for the Seaman Church, and I will take with me the recordings that come, in my further work on future church budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1365	The councils are concerned that we now, and after the distinction between church and state, should have a broad, open and inclusive people's church. Of course, so are I and the Progress Party. Now, the above-mentioned proste reform has resulted in the actual failure of the number of performers, if you can use that term, annual work in the Norwegian Church, of about 53 performers. So the government is talking about recruitment. It is well and good, but recruitment is more difficult once you have failed educational capacity and so failing wage budgets. When we also include that the work pressure is still high enough, it's not very easy to get to this right here. Wouldn't it have been better if the goal throughout this process was to maintain a broad, open and inclusive people's church, before, during and after this process, and that the Church's leadership had instead been allowed to concentrate on this huge reform that you stand in the middle of, to avoid that trade fair falls occur with increasing frequency?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1372	The proste reform I think has been a very good arrangement for the Norwegian Church. It helps prosthetics to concentrate their activities more on being prosthetic and organizing the work done in the process. That means you have to look at, like in a lot of contexts, how to organise work in the best possible way. I am confident that the protesters who have now been given demanding leadership will contribute to this. I have to say I'm a little surprised at the millimetre bill that the Progress Party is busy with. I have seen in many other contexts that the Progress Party is concerned that we should find effective and good solutions, but it is not always the same interest that I have seen in operating millimetre calculations on the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting to drive effectively. We believe that the Church has got a good economy. I am concerned that the Church will operate within the limits laid by the Stortinge in its budgets, and I will contribute to that in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1379	The church calls out a warning, and we're going to take that seriously. In a world where we see that more and more people need personal follow-up and help, the Church struggles to serve. In the light of the government budget, savings measures have now been announced. Is e.g. The Council of State is pleased with a church where funerals are now being gathered for one day a week, where a closest one is in line, as one of the necessary savings measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1384	We have continued a high level of performance in the financial structure we have provided. I think it's important, as I said in my previous answer, that you pay attention and organize the work in a good way. I believe that as long as you have up to 100 job vacancies and I have not registered any particular unemployment among the priests, the recruitment situation is something we need to focus on, if we are to get the priests to fill the vacancies. Our focus has been on helping us get a better recruitment situation. That is why we have allocated funds to this. I want a high focus on it, and we have started a screening work that I want to make sure that we follow up when we get the answers to that screening work, so that we can make sure that we have more performances that can occupy the positions that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1389	It is true that there are many vacancies. There is often a context in which jobs are available and there are no applicants. In addition, we also know that in the Church there is a great deal of search reports. Has it failed the Council of State that this might have a connection with the resources allocated to the Church in relation to the tasks it has, and what will the Council of State do to seize it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1394	We have not implemented a very long time ago a work schedule for priests, which means that you have more days off. I think that's been an important milestone for us to be able to recruit more priests. I'm very concerned that in the context of the proste reform that we now have, we get good pros, which can be good leaders, which can enable us to allocate work to the priests who are available in the prosthesis, and in that way organise the work in such a good way that we have motivated priests, and so that we have as little sick leave as possible. So again, I want to say that I'm concerned that we get good recruitment processes, because we're in a situation where many priests are getting closer to retirement. It's hard to get a lot of people in place. That's why I want to insist that it's important that we focus on recruiting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1400	When the church budget was presented, many people realized that this was not a good budget for the Church. Even in the entertainment program again, we were told that they had brought it. But what was perhaps more serious was that there were bishops going out and telling about a very serious situation, about the consequences this would have in their dioceses. Then the Council of State sprang out and said he had a better understanding of the reality of what this actually looks like out in the Church. Then I'm starting to wonder if in this area, too, we need the Aasland Action Space Group, which she's been given in the higher education sector, because the reality is completely different from the red-green, of how it's really gone. Would you like to take the initiative to get such an action space group to get a better understanding of the reality of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1405	As I said in my main post, I was at the Church Meeting, and after I was at the Church Meeting, I was also allowed to be out in a lot of contexts and meet representatives of the Church. I hear that someone's worried, but I also see a living and beautiful people's church, where there's a lot of activity. So I think the reality description might be a little bit different in different environments. I want a good dialogue with the Church's organs, and I am very sure that the Church's organs that I meet will be able to convey the reality that is out there. I will also travel to next year a lot, and then of course I will also make sure to visit the dioceses and get an even more detailed description of the reality. Of course, I will take that further into my work, including with the church budget in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1412	I'm glad the Council of State will visit the Church. That is a great improvement in relation to the Council of State after which she has taken over. But there's a lot of anxiety messages, and what I think is the challenge, is that if you start getting good performances, geography gets a strengthening effect. So there's large geographic areas that have a lot to do with performance coverage. My question is: Are you concerned that jobs are now being cut, that jobs have to be left vacant to get the budgets going, that one has to cancel services, that is, that the church has to travel to the churches instead of being a religious service where people live, and, as we have also heard before, that funerals have to be postponed or the eight-day deadline laid down in the law on this matter has to be broken? This is not worthy of a people's church to be near and present to the people, when the people need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1421	In the last few years there has been no cut in the appropriations for the performance. They have followed the usual wage and price increases, and then it is also important – I have expectations – that the Church, in the same way as all other parts of the administration, ensures that its budgets are placed within the framework that is. Regular wage and price increases have been implemented in the budgets submitted, as well as some other additions to strengthen recruitment. But then I see that when you get in the situation that jobs remain vacant for a long time, it is often that the temporary costs, when you have to start with it, become large. That is why, in the supplementary proposal, which is also to be dealt with here today, I have contributed 4 million. kr extra, just to remedy that situation. However, the long-term objective must be to establish permanent posts, to provide people with job vacancies. It will also help to reduce the disproportionate costs incurred by temporary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1429	The working party went to the election on a message that everyone should join. It's especially true for school. In today's society, we know that if everyone is going, they must have the necessary knowledge and education. Knowledge and education are central to the history of the labour movement. That story is marked by the fight for the right to more and better education. The struggle was that the sons and daughters of the labour movement would also have the opportunity to choose what they would do with their lives. In 1969, we got the law of compulsory 9-year-old school, and in addition to the 1990s, the reforms came almost on a continuous basis. All these reforms have shared the view that they have provided more education for more people. With Reform 94, all young people between 16 and 19 years of age were entitled to 3-year-old secondary education. It has been important for us to be able to meet the challenges we see coming in the future. Norway is the OECD country with the lowest proportion of workers employed in occupations consisting of simple, routine tasks which do not require training. The SSB estimates that in 2025 there will be a need for 100 000 fewer workers with only compulsory education than in 2004. One might wonder what it would be like to meet the future if the Right had got what they wanted, and Reform 94 and the right to high school for all had not been introduced. Almost all young people in Norway now start in secondary school. That's good, but it's a big challenge for our society to only 70 pst. complete in five years. In particular, it's a challenge that it's just a little over 50 pst. by professionals who complete the course. When we also know that having completed secondary education is the most important thing in order to have a stable relationship with the labour market and to be able to pursue further studies, we understand that this problem is one of the most fundamental in order to succeed in preserving and strengthening the welfare state that we have built up. We can't live with kids leaving primary school without being able to read, write and calculate enough to get through further education, and we can't live with one in three falling out of high school. Mette Hanekamhaug, now the representative of the magistrate, wrote in the election paper of the Progress Party for More and Romsdal: ‘Let those who go to cooking schools, carpenters and electricians not interpret Ibsenknitter and conduct poetry analysis. Rather, give them a cookbook, hammer and voltmeter». When you say to young people that it's okay that they're not so good at reading as long as they're good at screwing, you do these kids a huge bear service. It's actually a betrayal, especially when we know that it's basic competence to be able to read, write and calculate that is crucial to what opportunities you get later in life. Even in the future, we will live by each other's knowledge. In 2007, 82 p.m. by the national wealth of what we call current and future labour efforts, that is, what's inside our heads. Norway, as a high-cost country, will only be able to survive in international competition if we manage to ensure that we have highly skilled workers and a high level of competence throughout the workforce. In the future, there will be no jobs left for those who have no education. It's serious for the country because we need everyone to contribute. The government's goal is for all primary school graduates to master basic skills that enable them to participate in further education and working life. The fact that every student gets an experience of mastering and a feeling of being included is very important for us to succeed in the task of stopping the dropout. The aim is for everyone to complete secondary education. The fact that eight out of ten professionals say that their competence makes it easy to apply for a new job, I believe proves that the education given is in many ways good. The challenge is to get everyone. This budget strengthens the fight against apostasy. In St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, several measures are outlined against non-response. I also believe that this budget facilitates the proper follow-up of the notification. When the Storting is about to deal with the Christmas message itself, it must be a goal that we together will move on to finding solutions and prevent young people from falling off the labour market and society until they have once had the opportunity to become part of it as adults. It is our responsibility to ensure that all young people in Norway are allowed to take advantage of the abilities and opportunities ahead of them. Then we can't create a school that will be for the few, then we have to create a school that will be for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1456	In the vote, the opposition strongly criticises the appropriations in the university and higher education sectors. They think we don't give enough money. It is quite interesting that civil parties believe that more money should be spent on public institutions in the UH sector to a large extent. Usually they believe that public expenditure should be lower. But the most interesting thing is that they don't put their big money where they put the big words. In one of its joint comments in the suspension, the opposition writes that they consider the basic allocation to be ‘persistently weak’ and that they consider it to be ‘a serious estimate of the capacity and degree of freedom of the institutions’. Those are strong words. That's why it was exciting to see that the Progress Party in its alternative budget amounted to 155 million. kr for this work. To put that sum in perspective, I would like to remind you that the total appropriation from the Government to the UH sector is NOK 24.5 billion. NIFU STEP has analysed the Government's proposals for the government budget for next year. They point out that the growth of higher education appropriations represents a nominal increase of 900 million. kr from 2009. However, although this government has done a good job of improving working conditions in the UH sector, it is essential that the sector itself also contributes to the creation and maintenance of its freedom of action. The aim must be to remove the paradox that many in the UH sector have mentioned in the hearings to the Committee, namely that they both receive increased appropriations from the Government and at the same time feel that more and more resources need to be made available. There is a background for the Council of State for Research and Higher Education in September to appoint a working group to assess how it can be easier for the sector to make good, independent priorities for education and research. Clear and clear management of the sector is necessary to ensure that the funds allocated go to what is most important first, namely to quality and to students, not just to bureaucracy and administration. I can't see that the opposition has been equally clear on how to get the most out of each krona – just using several kroner. A final key challenge for this sector is what is called the youth wave. My good co-representative, Tor Bremer, has set out in an excellent way how larger young people and more students provide new opportunities, but also new challenges. In this context, two things in particular are important in the future. First of all, we're increasing the number of places to study. This proposal will allow a total of 5,600 additional places of study from the next autumn. At macro level, unemployment is counteracted and helped to meet future skills needs. At individual level, there are several possibilities to realize themselves and to develop their abilities. Secondly, good student welfare is an important prerequisite for equal opportunities in education and for balancing the differences between districts and cities. I have recorded that the opposition stands together to claim in the budget setting: ‘It does not help to allocate money to build student homes when they are not realised because of an excessive cost framework.’ [[...]] I checked with the Ministry of Knowledge, and their experience is that this is not even a problem. Rather, on the contrary – it is very good to realize the money that goes to student homes, because you build it just like that. Per. 2nd December of this year, 230 million had expired. kr for student housing. Several payments are in the system for the Husbank, and several applications for approval of payments are expected. Finally, I would like to remind you that under Bondevik II it was cut in the number of student housing every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1487	There have always been strong ties between state and church. For a thousand years, Christian faith and religion have been involved in shaping and upholding traditions, cultures and values in the Norwegian community. The Norwegian Church is an important bearer of the Christian cultural heritage and plays an important role as a distributor and a value institution. An overarching objective of church policy is to facilitate the continuation and development of the Norwegian Church as an open and inclusive church. The Norwegian Church shall be a nation-based, locally anchored church and have space for different religious needs and theological directions. The Church Agreement concluded by the political parties of the Stortinget on 10 April 2008 is a historical agreement on the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church. I think it's great that a power to make a deal between the parties in the Storting about a matter that's so important to the people that Church is. The Church Agreement involves a looser bond between the Church and the State, but a closer bond between the Church and the people. The church choices should coincide with the collapse and municipal elections. Prior to the church settlement, there was a thorough process. In 2006, the Gjønnes selection provided a comprehensive distribution, with several proposals for changes in the Church. The process of listening to the Gjønnes selection is the greatest group work in history. Trond Bakkevig led a selection that looked at the possibilities for a democracy reform in the Church. The selection proposal has been listened to. There have been some measures that are now being implemented, which, together with new proposals that will come, will be the reform of democracy. The participation in the 2009 church election was more than double compared to previous years. The church selection in 2009 is now being evaluated. The evaluation shall form the basis for the implementation of a new elections in autumn 2011, at the same time as the municipal elections. Constitutional changes will be submitted to the Stortinget in 2012. A majority of the population are members of the Norwegian Church. We want to secure this as an open, secure and democratic church that has a broad anchoring among its members. At the same time, it is crucial for us that citizens who have a different religious or life-view should not feel discriminated against or disregarded by the plurality. The working party will therefore: follow up the church conciliation with the Church's organisations to review and improve the electoral arrangements and the membership register to present a matter of threat and life-sight policy contributing to more life-sight-neutral ceremonials continuing the threat training reform to facilitate the number of priestly and diaconferences for several female socne priests, pros and bishops to ensure that foreign publishers who work with a lasting character in trust societies are to undergo training in Norwegian languages and on the Norwegian community that municipalities receive financial assistance to upgrade church buildings when necessary The Labour Party has the following main priorities for the Church: Twenty million. kr in increments to truss training 2 mill. SEK in increments to the 5 million performance service. kr to measures to strengthen the pilgrimage tradition in Norway 1 million. kr in increase as a result of the extension of the number of members of the Episcopal Council and of the Church Meeting 1,75 million. SEK in increments to five new cultural advisors SEK 1 million. kr in increments in the propensity for church music continuation of 10 mill. kr to central measures for securing and documentation work in relation to church buildings Knowledge of own faith and religious identity is as important in today's multicultural societies as it was in previous times. Children and young people who are safe on their own identity get respect and tolerance in meetings with others who have a different belief or outlook on life. Reform of the Church's trusis training has been a priority area in recent years in developing the Church of Norway as a people's church. The church meeting in 2009 adopted a new truce training plan in the Norwegian Church. In meeting with a society and a world of rapid change, the Norwegian Church shall be stimulated to continuous renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1574	Research is very important for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The government aims to make Norway the world’s leading maritime nation. Therefore, our ambition is that Norway will be the international leader in marine research and innovation. The growth and development we have experienced in marine industries would not be possible without research. In order to strengthen our competitiveness, Norway must be at the forefront of knowledge in resource management, the marine environment and the marine environment. Norway manages sea areas that are more than six times larger than our land areas, and it commits. The assumption for further growth in the aquaculture industry is that industry is environmentally sustainable. Climate and sustainability are therefore key to the proposed increased effort on marine research in 2010. Administrative marine research is proposed reinforced by 39 million. kr for climate, resource and marine research. It is necessary to gain more knowledge of the impact of climate change on marine industries, fish stocks and marine ecosystems. Climate change also leads to acidification of the sea, and we need to understand its consequences. We also need to increase knowledge of the role of the sea in climate change. Knowledge building in several other areas is also necessary in order to better meet the new ecosystem-based management requirements of the Marine Resource Act. For the further growth of the aquaculture industry, it is essential to find a lasting solution to the salmon problem. Research on salmonillus has therefore been a priority over several years. In 2010, research efforts on salmonnus will be further strengthened, while monitoring and supervision will be strengthened and food monitoring will be strengthened through, inter alia, stronger instruments. improved sanctioning possibilities. Of other key research areas in aquaculture, I would also like to mention escape and feed access and alternative feed sources. Marine bioprospecting is an area in which Norway has good chances of success. In September, the government presented a national strategy for marine bio-prospecting, and its efforts have been reinforced by 7 million. kr. Together with the appropriations entered in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, almost 50 million are now proposed. kr for marine bioprospection. I would also like to show that the allocation is proposed to be increased by 2 million. to strengthen research on the link between feed in the aquaculture industry and the health effects of seafood, and to propose funds for research on the use of marine algae for bioenergy. It's proposed to be set at 5.5 million. kr for further design and quality assurance of a new ice-going research vessel. I have noted the Committee's wish for greater coordination of future research vessel needs between the Institute of Marine Research and other State actors and for the Marine Research Institute to have a coordinating role. The establishment of the National Toxicity Committee in 2005 has, according to the Marine Research Institute, contributed to a very good cooperation between state operators of research vessels. An agreed plan for the renewal of research vessels has also been developed, with new ice-going research vessels prioritizing. I am therefore very confident that everything will facilitate good coordination between the operation and renewal of State research vessels. In summary, the 2010 budget provides a good basis for continuing strengthening marine research. Investment in research and development is important and efforts in this field form the basis for Norway’s future value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1597	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1601	I wonder if it's my past in the Energy and Environment Committee that makes me terribly want to discuss salmonnus, but it probably doesn't belong strictly to the budget chapters we're discussing today. That's why I want to ask you something else. The Ministry of the Environment — and both the Councils of State there in this government — has been very clear and clear that we need to have a clear distinction between research and management. The distinction between environmental management research and management has led us to have three truly world-leading research environments in the environment sector, NINA, NILU and NIVA. What is it then that State Council Berg-Hansen has understood so much better than State Council Solheim when she is not even willing to consider a stronger distinction between research and management in the marine sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1608	To manage our marine resources, we need strong and unreserved research and management actors. That's what I'm concerned about, and there's no binding on the institutes for the dissemination or publication of their research results. So for me, it's important to distinguish between what's administrative research and what's business research. Already under Bondevik II, a clear distinction was established between administrative and industrial research. The background for this was that Norway, as a major marine power agency, has a special need to have marine research institutions with the highest possible national and international integrity. As I say, the fact that we have the security of independent and clean research on administrative research – it is necessary that there are scientists who advise us – is crucial for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1617	I had the impression that Norway was not only a marine nation, but that we were also an environmental nation – at least a lot of the rhetoric from the Government often suggests it. Thus, the Environment Ministry has not reached the same conclusion that the Minister for Fisheries is now coming to – all right. Since the Council of State is first here, I could imagine following up on this with coordination. As the rapporteur-general for the field, I am very pleased that an overall committee now believes that there needs to be stronger coordination. If I can allow myself to draw it a little bit further, I wonder if you might in the long run be able to see for yourself also to establish a state pool – usually in the direction of HI, which takes care of the need for seagoing capacity for state research institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1624	The Ministry is constantly concerned that the administrative institute is carrying out high-quality research, and I feel that we have very good cooperation within the various institutes in this field. What we've done in addition to ensuring the professional development of the institutes, which I believe the replicator is asking for, is now to go in to set up a scientific council at HI and NIFES to strengthen the professional development of the institutes. So to the extent that it's the professional advice the replicator is concerned about, I think we both have a focus on this with the cooperation that's at the various institutes, and through the establishment of the scientific council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1629	I share the opinion of the Council of State that research is important for the competitiveness of the marine sector, I think she used those words. However, the marine sector is also a major and important export industry for Norway, and therefore also exposed to competition. We heard earlier in the debate that the committee chairperson and party council member used the term ‘we are spending extremely much money’, implicitly in the 2010 budget. This is something that worries very much about competitive business, and the Council of State comes from this industry itself. Does she share her concern about the excessive use of public money in the 2010 budget to the detriment of competitive and export-oriented business?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1636	As I said in my article, perhaps especially the aquaculture industry is the best picture of cooperation between research and industrial development. Without research, we probably wouldn't have had any aquaculture. We see the exact same thing in the traditional fishing industry. Having a good knowledge of the stocks that we manage is absolutely vital to having a good nutrition. I think it's very important also in the future to have a big focus on research and actually spend a lot of money on it. To put it this way, where I'm going, it's probably not exactly the research resources industry is worried about. It is equally important to focus on the fact that we spend the money properly in research, as I have said. The review in my article shows that we have focused on just that with sustainability in both aquaculture and traditional fishing industries, as a thread in business development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1641	User-driven research is described by many as a good method of developing forward-looking solutions. In recent years, trends have been seen in government parties governing a greater proportion of research and development fees against, if not policy-driven, research, so at least towards the free disposal of public research institutions. Many business organisations believe that the level of user-driven research and development activity needs to be increased in order to stimulate industry to increase research efforts. There is something that can give us more forward-looking and robust industries. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think it is right to involve large parts of the user-funded funds to finance the institutional research?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1648	I assume that the representative is targeting the research fund of the fisheries and aquaculture industry and the funding of Nofima. I'll interpret it your way. I think it's very wise to work together to make the best use of the total research resources. I feel that the fishing and aquaculture industry is now seeing the benefits, and also that part of the funding of Nofima that comes from the agricultural side. The channelling and prioritizing of funds in the areas that are all agreed on should be given priority, I think, is wise, and I do feel that the industry agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1655	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1660	Education is the very foundation of our welfare state, and equal opportunities for all have always been and will still be the goal of the Workers' Party. Because it's only when we make sure that everyone has equal opportunities in the education system that we can balance social differences. I come from Uppland, a state located at the bottom of the statistics on education in Norway – not exactly a statistic to be very pleased with. Young people move from the state to higher education, and many do not come back — a challenge that Uppland shares with many districts. It is important to remember that many people have important real skills, and many adults want to fill up with education and knowledge. But we know that too many people find it hard to move far away to take education. They have family obligations and financial obligations that make mobility less important than it might be for young people who have just graduated from higher education. That's why it's so incredibly important that we have a decentralised college offer. I'm glad that the committee's red-green majority will earmark 1 million. kr in grants for the operation of the Study Centre.no, because they play an important role in the decentralised training provision. Clearly, it is good district policy to provide more knowledge across the country. A study has been carried out at the Gjøvik High School, which shows that 88 pst. of those who completed decentralised nursing training in Uppland, still live in Uppland. It ensures that stable labour remains in the districts, while at the same time providing increased skills. There is no doubt that municipalities will demand more competence in the future. Kindergartens and schools need skilled professionals, and now when we are about to start the cooperation reform, it also demands greater demands on municipalities. This is why the vocational schools also play an important role in increasing the competence of those who are already working in the health sector today. In the past, those who took a medical profession at the technical school had to pay a large proportion of the costs, while those who took a technical course got it free of charge. It is fundamentally unfair when, in women's dominated professions, there are prostheses and not in man-dominated professions. The health sector is women-dominated, and this year the red-green government made sure that all the women who want to fill up professionally do not have to pay for it. It is an important gender issue, and it is not least important to increase the quality of healthcare services. In the future, we're dependent on knowledge, and the wise minds are our wealth. Then we have to fill in with knowledge both at the bottom and at the top. We must take care to combat the drop-out in higher education among young people, but we must also remember to make sure to fill up with knowledge among those who are not quite so young. That's how we get a comprehensive policy for more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1675	Over a thousand years, the Church has been involved in the embodiment of Norwegian culture, history and social life. During this ageing period, Stortinget will unload through the most extensive changes in the state church system framework of nearly 200 years. One of the most central points of this reform is the implementation of the democratic reform, which aims to give the Church's organs a stronger democratic legitimacy and anchoring among church members. The church elections that were held in September gave us a hint at the development of democracy in the Church, and I look forward to looking into the research-based evaluation that will be available during 2010. The centre party wants a strong people's church with wide doors and high ceilings. However, economics is always a challenge – so is the Church. While we are going to carry out the various reforms in the Church, the main tasks must be the service, baptism, confirmation and burial. In small municipalities in particular, it may be difficult to carry out these tasks in a good way. The centre party therefore considers it important to follow closely the current experimental and development work — including developments in performance and slide performances that Soria Moria takes into account in order to increase. There are many exciting projects going on in the Norwegian Church, such as religious training, religious services, etc., but it is the daily work that challenges the Church as a popular church – the meeting between the Church and people, indoors and outdoors. That is why I do not share the negative report of the representative of the Progress Party. the pilgrimage bet. I come from Uppland, and I want to pull out the very pilgrimage project, which is just about the meeting between the Church and the people. That project has been allocated 5 million. kr in the year’s budget. A very large part of the pilgrimage goes through Uppland and through my own municipality of residence, Gran. Gran houses three of the members' six medieval churches in Oppland. It is now working along the entire chain with development work related to pilgrimage traditions, information, art and craftsmanship, and it is a very exciting project that can bind the people and the Church together in a good way, and which I am happy to follow forward. I have also registered that a majority in the Church Meeting has joined Oslo as the church capital. The central party has programmed that the church capital should be located in Trondheim, and that presidents should have seats where the pilgrims end up in Norway’s former church capital. I think we are facing the most church-intensive period of many years in Stortinget, and I am looking forward to discussing the future of the Church of the Peoples in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1693	The pillar of high employment, low unemployment and good value creation is research and innovation. More than DKK 22.5 billion will be used for research into the state budget for 2010, DKK 1.7 billion more than in 2009. Yes, billions in plus is amazing, it's a huge strengthening of the area. In particular, there is industry-related research in the environment, technology, renewable energy, marine bioprospecting and innovation in the maritime industries we are now seeing emerge from the strengthening that is mentioned and that is in the state budget for 2010. The marine sector was specifically mentioned by the Minister for Fisheries. It's an important area. Marine bio-prospecting is a strategic field in which we in Norway have good opportunities to assert ourselves in international competition. This is specifically about triggering the large value creation potential that marine bio-prospecting opens up. It is also one of the areas underpinned by the 2010 budget. I would also like to underline another thing that the Minister for Fisheries raised, to build knowledge and get good research results related to the future of the aquaculture and farming industries, so that they can develop in a sustainable way and in co-existence with, among other things. the wild axis. There are important areas in which research and knowledge gives us sustainability and the possibility of good value creation in the future. Then it is that the choice of words from the opposition in terms of research efforts has become significantly different lately. But when Tord Lien tries to produce research efforts in this state budget as perhaps something weak, among other things. With reference to the BIA, I'm a little surprised. There is no doubt that the BIA programme has increased by 25 million. kr in 2010 compared with the 2009 budget. There was no one who initially said that the extraordinary means that were put into the BIA were going to be there forever. So there's a formidable investment in research, and the BIA is one of the programs that's being strengthened, and that's very important to bring the breadth of business. However, we can say that it is a challenge to get the industry involved fully in research efforts. Any adaptation of research efforts or a greater degree of making available, marketing, will be important for taking business with them. The next one is the commercialization phase. Good research results and good knowledge that we're sitting on must be able to commercialize. And it needs a lot of attention in the future. An area we're doing well, Oslo Cancer Cluster, which is a cluster of knowledge, may be struggling with the commercialization phases. We should pay attention to this in the context of a good basis for continuing to strengthen research.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1708	Education and culture are interrelated. It was not for nothing that these two fields were run by the same department, until the Right created the first Ministry of Culture under Lars Roar Langslet's leadership. However, the Ministry of Education's budget remains important for some individual initiatives in key cultural areas. And there are a couple of fields that I think it's important to pull out here, with the Minister of Education present. Firstly, I would like to point out the craft scholarships for small and protective subjects. It is a tiny little area managed by Norwegian craftsmanship development. Yeah, it's small, but you're the world so important it is. We have approx. 30 outsourced crafts in Norway. If we are not able to take care of that kind of knowledge dissemination – that is, the hand-held knowledge dissemination – we have lost in many contexts that are of great importance to cultural life, especially in relation to cultural heritage. I remember that craftsmanship such as dry-walling or specialisation within lapping or theme seams are actually exposed in our country. I would like to encourage the Government to make the grant scheme permanent, so that it is possible to plan in relation to it, and that it is also extended. The other area I would like to point out is how we are promoting young talents in our country. We've had a good interest in culture. The government has delivered on the cultural budget. As a result, in many areas, we have been brought forward by a very exciting generation of young talents. In the field of music, we see these rising. With the Barratt Dues Music Institute at the top, there are now five candidates for Menuhin competition in ironing instruments to use such an expression. It's a sensation. There is no country in the world that delivers so well. Then we have fields within dance and other arts where it's terribly difficult to get there, where it's terribly difficult to get the relevant teaching that needs to be done if you're going to be able to get into the international arena, if you're going to be able to pick on the top shelf. The teachers are there, the capacity is there, but we can't bring the few people we're talking about – we're talking about three-five-six-ten a year – into these contexts. Here I believe that the arts colleges have a special responsibility. The colleges of Fine Arts would be able to easily create a scheme that would bring these people into the necessary networks and provide them with the necessary learning capacities. The Ministry should do something about this. This isn't expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1721	In most sectors, human capital is the main input to value creation. Making sure that this capital has the knowledge and skills needed, from primary to higher education and beyond through lifelong learning, is essential for us to succeed as a nation in the development of the welfare society, of the knowledge society, and to create the basis for further value creation. For the Workers' Party, continuing to invest in a good public school, where everyone has equal opportunities for learning and activity, is important in order to achieve this. Norwegian schools have undergone a number of reforms in recent years. Now, the Knowledge promise is introduced at all stages of primary school, but it is important to stress that it takes time before we see the results of the reform. It is therefore necessary for the school to have sufficient peace and resources to make the promise of knowledge work according to its intentions. The government of Stoltenberg has strengthened the follow-up to the Knowledge promise that the Stortinget has adopted, and we will continue to strengthen education and research during this period. It shows the budget that is being discussed here today, and also the strengthening of the municipal economy – as the Government of Stoltenberg has done in recent years. Basic training is of high quality. Quality development in initial training is therefore a high priority in the 2010 budget. We will strengthen the students' knowledge and skills, and ensure individual students' adapted training. The individual student must be seen and followed up. To do this, we need more teachers and lecturers, and we need to free up teaching time for the teachers. We'll get through that, among other things. multiple learning places in teacher training, national framework for teacher density at school, smaller teaching groups, more groups of professionals at school and by strengthening the competence of teachers and school leaders through continued efforts to develop skills. Skilled and motivated teachers are essential to the quality of school. In the 2010 budget, we have also proposed spending 241 million. kr to increase the number of teaching hours and to provide free lessons. Increasingly, both in school and in the general public, the focus is on results in schools in relation to scores on different national and international tests. Such tests can be a good clue at the level of knowledge, but perhaps less of the skills learners develop. I am asking questions about this partly one-sided focus on tests and tests in school everyday work on quality development, and look forward to a more comprehensive assessment system, with which the department is working, which hopefully can give each student better feedback in terms of developing within the subjects, than the one-sided test scores and grades give today. The development of the school is a continuous process, but we're on the right track. Giving everyone equal opportunities is one of the most important things we can do to strengthen our human capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1736	The Chairman of the Committee said this in his first speech: Climate crisis is our biggest challenge. There is a need for measures that change everyone's everyday life; we need to do things in a way that emits less greenhouse gases. But not just that: we have to do other things. We have to find other things to live off in the future. So we have to go from a black oil economy to a green knowledge economy. It's a challenge, but it's also a great opportunity, especially for our higher education institutions. Many have said this before: National wealth is not in the North Sea, but it is in the head and hands of those who live here in the country. Therefore, it is very good that the Government rates on higher education and research, and especially research within the climate field. It's an area where there's a need to reinforce the bet further later. We are facing a strong growth in youth schools, and there is a need for more than a thousand new places to study. We've noticed the Minister of Knowledge signal to the universities and colleges that they need to prepare to be able to pick up more students. Colleges and universities are changing. Many are working on plans to merge into stronger units to strengthen the professional profile and institutions' societal engagements with the regions — a follow-up to the intentions of the Star Island Committee. It is positive that the Government wants to support these processes, including with increased grants, which are within the budget. It's not easy to please colleges and universities. It's to the extent that their task is always critical. In the year’s budget, they are compensated for the rise in prices, but many have a previous overhang that, together with increased pension expenditure, continues to make the economy difficult for more institutions. Most were allocated new study places in connection with the revised national budget earlier this year, and in this state budget they receive even more. The previously allocated places will be continued in 2010 and all places of study will be fully funded. Fully funded means, in this context, that they receive an increase in basic appropriations of 60 pst. of the estimated cost. The other must then be paid for the production of study credits. The last thing that has happened is that some people have claimed that the study places are still not fully funded. But it would be a breach of the funding system to do it another way. The fact that they have to pre-finance the 40 pst. In the first two years, a challenge for some institutions may arise if there are many new places to study. I therefore call on the Ministry of Knowledge, in cooperation with the institutions, to find solutions that will ensure that the economy does not limit the development of new places of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1749	The workforce is our most important resource – many have said today – and the biggest waste of resources is when we have unemployment. We have the lowest leave in Europe. We're not going further out of the country than we are to Sweden until we see three times as high unemployment as in Norway. Perhaps the worst thing about unemployment in Sweden is the high youth unemployment rate, which is now approaching 30 pst. Of course, every one of the measures we put in place to prevent unemployment is very important for the individual, both because it provides increased income and because working life is an important arena for social inclusion. However, professional participation also means the removal of long-term funding from the welfare country. This is why high levels of professional participation are so important, because this helps to ensure the sustainability of welfare systems. In a slightly simplified way, public welfare schemes are paid by those in employment, while children, young people and the elderly are net beneficiaries of publicly funded benefits. When we know that there are more older people in the next few years, while we know that there is a lot of youth coal, this suggests that we have challenges. It is future-oriented to invest in knowledge on the broad front to meet the demographic challenge of the ageing wave and youth wave and to ensure the Norwegian welfare model. We've been continuously expanding school days in recent years because that's what we need. Secondly, we have focused on quality in basic education, both through the introduction of the Knowledge Promise and subsequent further processing through St. meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, Quality at school. We've focused on the teacher and the teacher role, and changed teacher training. We have introduced free teaching materials in high school, strengthened counselling services and expanded the number of places of study. In addition, more money has never been allocated to the construction of student housing, to mention something. One of the most important things we can do is to avoid the exclusion of exclusion mechanisms — avoiding the absence of education and ports outside of professional participation — from the loss of well-being that results. We apply measures at school to avoid this, based on analyses carried out in connection with St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, Early intervention. We make arrangements in the labour market to facilitate further education and training for more people, close to the workplace, among others. through a programme of basic competence in the workplace. Children and adolescents use at least 13 years of age at school. It's a big part of life, and then it's important that we have a system that focuses on winning instead of creating losers and defeats. That's why it's important to enjoy education – the joy of going to school, the joy of learning, the joy of having something to go after, the joy of being with others – the joy of life and the joy of learning more, all your life. The budget facilitates this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1768	The centre party is committed to stimulating the establishment of new activities to ensure innovation and growth in the economy. In order to achieve this, it is very important to stimulate the creativity of young people and to provide the founding fathers among them. The centre party is therefore pleased that the support to the Young Entrepreneurship organisation is continued by 11 million. kr. The allocation shall contribute to the creation of a culture of entrepreneurship in school and education. The Centre Party considers it important that all pupils and students at all levels of education receive an offer of entrepreneurship training. We will also underline the importance of entrepreneurship in training to contribute to gender equality in society and business. In this context, I refer to the Action Plan for Entrepreneurship in Education 2009–2014, which the Ministry of Knowledge, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade have developed together. I have sailed experience from investing in entrepreneurship among young people, and I have seen the great effect this work has on inspiring young people to want and dry to create their own business. The experience of Young Entrepreneurship shows that there are far more of those who have participated in setting up a youth enterprise or a student enterprise, starting their own adult enterprise than among others. The fact that the students themselves have to make this experience, building down the barriers to taking steps to establish their own business. In addition, all those participating in youth enterprises get an understanding of what it means to do business, regardless of whether they start a business themselves. This is important, so that we stimulate a entrepreneurial culture – culture for entrepreneurship – and not just a culture of employees. I am impressed by the efforts of many schools, both teachers and students — and mentors in business. Motivated and engaged teachers are important to succeed in entrepreneurship at school. It's the Center Party occupied. We therefore welcome the fact that in 2010 the Ministry will release funds to develop more education and training provision and to strengthen the skills of professionals, as well as to continue the efforts to provide continuing entrepreneurship training for teachers. I would recommend the members of the UK to go to the NM for youth businesses that are arranged for spring, to really see what the students have managed to achieve through a year of youth enterprise, and meet the young entrepreneurs and their engaged teachers. These are the founders of the future, and I can promise that it will be an inspiring day for anyone who chooses to take the road there, and maybe we can also give inspiration from Stortinget's side to further bet on young entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1783	Competence is the country's most important resource. That's why education is so important. The Norwegian unit school has many qualities. It was just supposed to be missing -- we're spending a lot of financial resources on the schoolwork here in the country. Nevertheless, we also see worrying moves when we take them as a starting point, for example. The PISA surveys, which measure results in different disciplines in different countries. We don't have to use energy on whether the measurements are completely accurate, it keeps us looking at some big differences, not least in reading skills. Reading is a basic skill that is a prerequisite for all learning. Lack of reading training causes problems in all subjects – problems that grow as the student gets up in the class stages. If one conducted a drop-out survey in high school, a large proportion of those leaving high school would have too poor reading skills. In order to improve the quality of Norwegian school, reading needs to be strengthened, not just at the small school level, but throughout primary school. One is to crack the reading code, something else is to understand what you're reading. We need to have a continuous reading training throughout primary school. Students have to read much more than they do today. In West Finland, municipalities have adopted an obligatory reading plan, indicating how much to read at each stage throughout the ten-year school cycle. In the long term, there will be an increased focus on reading training and the value of reading when it comes to making our students better and more equipped for future empowerment. This is an example of quality improvement in primary school, which does not have to cost any more, but which is a turnaround of effort towards an area that will in the long run increase the quality of Norwegian school. We have very good pedagogical competence in Norwegian school. Targeted efforts will deliver results. Comparing with other countries can never give a completely true picture, but it gives us an important feedback that we have to take over, to the best of our students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1794	One of the many good comments in the budget position is to read on pages 65 and 66, and there is an overall committee behind it. It is primarily about continuing training in the districts and contains two equivalent calls: one goes to colleges, the other goes to municipalities and county municipalities, together to take a clearer and stronger joint action to facilitate the further development of training activities in the districts. Many are currently operating on this arena — not least the Study Centre.no, already mentioned by a previous speaker — and are doing a solid job of precisely facilitating such education, not least higher education. It is now – underlined in the note – that there is a need for clean-up and accountability in order to move forward. Then it is not least important to identify what is actually happening, who is participating in this arena, etc. An example of interesting development work when creating a national image here is to be found in Uppland. It bears the name Competence Engine. On the basis of this project, it was recognised that it was important for social policy to get a system, an arena, an infrastructure, which was aimed at contributing to educational equality in terms of gender, age and geography, where one was very concerned about obtaining good qualifications for the labour force, for active participation in society, and for innovation and innovation. What we started from Uppland – I was involved in what was former county politicians, was the doctoral thesis of Professor Gunnar Grepperud, and there were three key concepts that went back there. It was the concept of engine function that one should therefore view education as an instrument of social development. Then there was the concept of ‘broker function’ — this by ensuring that regions get the most access to the same training services as those living in the central districts, and by providing monitoring and negotiation, ensuring implementation and getting to a meeting between the provider and the demandor. The third and last thing was to get a good meeting place, where students get help in connection with the study offerings they are throwing themselves over. The vision was to get some sort of one door situation into adult learning in each region, and in Oppland we have six different regions. This has now really begun to fluctuate in the hinterland of Uppland. There are already two such meeting places and career centres in place, four new ones coming in during the year — and it is mediated and it meets and it is studied. Only in the autumn were 1000 adults in various ways engaged in post-secondary or post-secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1809	It is a cross-political desire to make the Norwegian school the best possible, and that each student should receive an offer that suits him or her. So far we agree, but when it comes to the instruments, the disagreement is great. We in the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the SV and the Center Party, are essentially building our policies on the common role, while the privatisation comrades, i.e. The Left, Right and Advance Party, will have a free play of commercial schools. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green parties made the private school agreement in the previous enlargement period, which made it possible to stop the uncontrolled growth in commercial, private schools, especially at high school level. Not enough of the Right and Advance Party's commitment to facilitating the widest possible privatisation of the school sector, publication of characters is yet another example of how the political differences are evident in this policy area. While we in the Labour Party are concerned with a careful level of publicity about results and grades, the Right Party and the Advance Party will go as far as possible in the name of free competition. It becomes quite enjoyable when you see how the Right Party and the Advance Party in particular fight against the publication of the tax lists. The characters shall be public and published, but national income and wealth shall not be published! Further comments are not necessary; the views of the Right and the Advance Party in this area speak for themselves. It is therefore concluded that the right-hand instruments of school policy, in particular in terms of privatisation, ranking and competition, contribute to increased disparities and exclusion. Our instruments, with a focus on quality and content in common school, early work and social cohesion, will be much better to achieve a good school for all. In conclusion, I would also like to point out the importance of not talking the school down. I notice that some representatives from the opposition do the same thing as in the previous magnification period, namely to talk the school down. As an old handball player and handball trainer, I'm used to focusing on the positive. There's a lot of people doing a big job in Norwegian school. So let's focus on the positive and that Norwegian school has an incredible development potential, and that it's doing a lot of good today, instead of trying to talk Norwegian school down all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1824	We have to create more if we're to distribute more. We need to strengthen research and development, so that we can convert from fossil to renewable energy, to energy saving, a greener business and, above all, longer value chains. Competence and research are essential for Norway to compete in international competition. The fight for the good minds goes not only between regions in Norway, but we also compete with other countries. This is an important area for our long-term capacity for value creation and innovation. It is essential that Norway is attractive as a place of study and work for the best students and international excellence. It is also important that enterprises are encouraged in various ways to further train their workforce and develop their skills. At the bottom there must be a course of education from primary school to university, highlighting the importance of knowledge, including practical knowledge, and making clear demands and expectations. Nutritional research and commercialisation of research results must be given priority. We need a strong public commitment to research, but at the same time we need to go with business to a greater extent in order to increase research efforts, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, the public sector needs to be better exploited to promote innovation. The public sector has a high potential to contribute to increased innovation through its activities. This can be done through deliberate thinking through purchases and acquisitions, increased competition and tenders. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have their own research departments, and public efforts against industry for research purposes must be focused primarily on this target group. Tax FUNN is a good tool that can be further developed, so that more people can make use of the scheme, not least those companies that are unable to make use of it as well today, perhaps especially small businesses. Universities and higher education institutions need to be strongly promoted for fruitful cooperation with industry. There must be good and strong research environments in all parts of the country, stimulating cooperation with enterprises. In this context, the regional research funds are very important. These will link local business and higher education more closely with the research environment. I believe that future value creation will be built on research to a much greater extent. That is why I and the Centre are very pleased that, from New Year's Eve, we have spent SEK 6 billion on regional research funds, as well as other research efforts, which have also been strengthened in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1847	Everything is related to everything, as our dear Gro Harlem Brundtland once said. Yesterday, the Labour and Social Committee dealt with our budget area here in the Chamber. It is a budget that is increasing enormously this year. But unlike when, for example, The education or cultural budget is increasing, we believe that an increase in our budget is very serious. We have some serious increases on the social security side. This year alone, our budget area in the field of employment and social affairs is increasing by DKK 30 billion on the expenditure side. There is an increase in the number of miscarriages, and there are figures for expected sick leave that are very serious. That's the main challenge for all of us in the future. We can't sit still and watch so many come out of work, and we can't see that the cost of this eats up our space of action in all other areas. The increase in our area is serious because it's about, is that behind the statistics and the numbers there are people, thousands of people who, for various reasons, are unable or unable to get jobs, but who could do it if they got better follow-up and better help. That is why the increase in our area and the estimates of sick leave are serious for these peoples. It is serious for enterprises that lose labour and it is serious for the state and society as a whole. We have to take it very seriously. When we look at who's hiding in the increase in statistics, we see some worrying signs. There is one group that is overrepresented and that is increasing most, and that is the group of young people. There are young girls and young men in construction. When youth unemployment increases, it is extremely worrying. We know that young people who leave early are more likely to be permanently out of work. Early leave and early long-term illness are a gateway to disability among young people. We got new numbers last week that showed that the number of juveniles is increasing dramatically. We know that the disease picture in the adolescent population is about mild mental disorders. It should not surprise us, all the time we know that the queues in juvenile psychiatry are twice as long as in adult psychiatry. But there is another common feature for this youth group. It's that a lot of them have dropped out of high school. Here we have to put in a huge effort. Early interventions against drop-out in school may be a more relevant response to long-term unemployment and disability among young people than much else. I'm very happy that the government here has increased the focus on drop-outs in school and put in measures. In a welfare society like Norway, it is totally unacceptable to see that so many young people fall out of work. That's why we have to fully focus on drop-out in school. We can't afford anything else. It is a vital investment in our most important resource — our young workforce, those who will in the future ensure value creation and the welfare of the future in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1863	This debate has become something black and white. When we discuss the education and research sector, it can sometimes seem like there are two completely different countries in two different parts of the world we are discussing. I guess it's not like that. Much is good in Norwegian school and education, but in relation to how much we spend, we should get something more out at the other end. And then I think more of the same isn't necessarily the answer. So just for some clarifications, the representative Tajik says that the Advance Party is just $155 million. kr extra to universities and colleges. That's not true. So we're going to get 355 million. SEK – 155 million. kr as base, and 200 mill. kr to equipment in the sector. When it comes to the top of the government's funds, in a situation where, first of all, the increase in expenditure is the problem, I would say it's a significant amount. But the representative, Wickholm, compared in a somewhat simplistic way poetry analysis with literacy. I'm responding to that. Because when I am going to have my car in the workshop, I am interested that he who accepts my car is able to read the manual of the car, not to discuss the Victorian home around the last century, and why Nora left his Torvald – something I am absolutely sure that large parts of Norwegian business will agree with me. Discussing disqualification at school without discussing theorization of the professions is as meaningless as discussing the breach between Torvald and Nora without discussing gender roles in Victorian home. So the representative of Aasland says that the BIA programme is being reinforced and continued. But he does not answer the question. At the order of Trond Giske, the Research Council has continued all the projects in the BIA through the crisis year 2009. The consequence is that no new projects can be launched in 2010. The technical institutes and the competitive industry in Norway are under strong pressure. All the talk that comes from the red-green representatives about how important they think competitive industry is is becomes pointless in the light of this. At the top of it all, a large majority of this room now agrees that institutions should also be taxed. It is something that has been debated until today, and which some bureaucrats have taken the initiative, but to which the Storting for the first time today agrees. I find that to be something paradoxical. So the representative, Ljunggren, says something that I totally agree with, that the school is going to smooth out social differences. It doesn't do that today. Then she says that the public school should promote talents. I hope we have a beautiful day to see that the public school promotes so great talents that we see a prime minister who has education from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1878	The world is getting smaller and smaller. The orientation of society is becoming increasingly international. This hangs among others. together with the use of information technology, changes in world trade, and people travelling much more than before. The old slogan that knowledge is power is still valid. In fact, it has never been more open than today, I would say. I am aware that the individual’s ability to acquire knowledge will vary, but we all need to be aware that challenge and competence are the very basis for individual employment and safety. The power of knowledge should also carry a responsibility. Young people who start a challenge run have resources, are creative and have different characteristics and interests in a great professional range, which young people have to take advantage of. In all communities, we find a bad “virus”, that is, the “het virus”. It turns out when we least expect it, both in the form of bullying and racism. That's why we have to vaccinate against it – we have to prevent it. The most important weapon against ‘virus’ is knowledge. We can make the right choices if we have insight. Having a knowledge is easier to understand and easier to tolerate. Without knowledge, it is not as easy to distinguish between right and wrong. Knowledge is the basis of common sense. Therefore, knowledge is also the strongest societal transformative force. With the raging technological developments that our society is experiencing and facing, and partly dramatic changes in family and social life, challenge policy may be the most important political tool we have both to counter inequality, as a result of new framework conditions, and not least to create work and security for all. Knowledge is no longer just an input; it has become, to a large extent, a purely competitive factor. Let me end by talking a little bit about research. With the industrial structure we have in this country, publicly funded research is absolutely necessary, both to raise the knowledge challenge we face, and to trigger increased business activity. Research is important for business because it creates both new products and new jobs. Not all enterprises are able to prioritise such development work. Therefore, it may take time to change business. If we are willing to intensify even more industrial research rights, small and medium-sized enterprises will also have great potential for fierce international competition. Knowledge development based on high-quality research is valuable in itself, while providing for the further development of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1891	The Church is part of this debate. In the Workers' Party, we are dedicated to having an open and inclusive people's church. There have been many important and long processes to reach such a goal, and there are strong feelings in turn when such processes are started. The Church is God's house, and the Church's people have the task of conveying God's Word. In the Church one must also be able to receive God’s blessing. It is therefore frightening for me to see how some clergymen today operate freely with discriminatory attitudes in their actions. I am thinking especially of the posted this week around the priest in Borgund Church on Sunnmare who would not baptize a child because it has lesbian parents. I don't think the Norwegian Church is served by priests who exclude people from being God's children. Jesus meets all kinds of people in an inclusive way and with great closeness. As I see it, this priest hides himself behind his own petty attitude. The Norwegian cultural heritage belongs to the Christian faith. But one of the reasons why there's a growing group that's volunteering may just be that there are examples of priests like this, where employees in the Church obviously have trouble having respect for the people you're serving. In the Workers' Party, we've been concerned that everyone has equal opportunities. It must also apply in the Church's room. I think it is very critical that conservative, judgmental priests should be able to operate in a way that looks more like a private-activating company than a state church. In today's society, people are well informed and do not find themselves in such an outrage. So from a theological point of view, the child is punished for something that adults think is wrong. That case is probably a good reason to put in place a system that can provide sanctions to help prevent this type of action from occurring. I am a member of the Norwegian Church, and that is exactly why I reserve the right to speak from when I discover critical conditions in the Church. This case shows that there are still ministers in the state church who are indifferent to the development of Norwegian society. It's important that people don't experience being put back decades in time when you go in the church door. Fortunately, these are exceptions, but it's an example that shows that we still have a job to do to make the Church a place for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1902	I noticed that the temperature increased a little below some of the inlays that took place, and I think that's very good. It is important that we both have a good cooperation and a good idea, as we had in the interpellation debate on Monday, but that we also dare to mark the big, important dividing lines and battle cases. I was very positively surprised that the representative Wickholm found it interesting to read my article in the local party newspaper. I note that in this debate there is a great deal of disagreement, and also inconsistency, when it comes to fresh oils, especially within the government parties. The representative, Tingelstad Wøien, said that private schools were quite fine when they came as a substitute for public, state-of-the-art schools. So private schools are good enough for us who are from the village, but too bad for the cities. Furthermore, the representative Hadia Tajik in his reply to the representative Lien expressed the fear of religious segregation at religious schools – while her own party is part of a government that – only – wants to open up to just alternative educational schools or religious schools. And the representative of Aasen stated that everyone should have the right to a good education and school, where the wallet should not decide – while the Workers' Party continues to discriminate financially against private and public schools, which force private schools to just make parental payments. The government has thus set up a system in which public schools are mediocre and where they are rich and privileged, for example. Government salaries or better — can be bought out of public school and into private solutions. I see it here as useful to make a new quote, this time by Bjørnstar Bjørnson: «To live a consistent life would be something in the world, it would be serious – it costs.» Fortunately, we are rich in the Progress Party – not on money, but on strength, courage and will.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1915	I might have wanted to comment on the last speaker, but I'm going to stick to the script. The government is promoting an offensive research budget, and there are a lot of aspects of the research budget that it might be interesting to comment on, not least the commitment to basic research, which is the basis of all higher education and research. But as a member of the Business Committee, I want to raise a matter that I think is particularly important for the development of Norwegian business and social life, and there is a commitment to research centres for environmentally friendly energy. The programme was launched in the current year, and now there are eight geographically distributed renewable energy centres, energy savings and CO2 capture centres. Center represents the foremost before Norwegian research in its field. Through this programme, the Government and the Research Council have made a clear commitment to pooling the research environment into a common climate and climate-driven framework for forward-looking business development. Research environment in different parts of the country gathers on common problem settings and common objectives. It creates a research environment with greater weight than every institution can manage to create, and it lifts us in international competition. I've had the pleasure of being at the start of one of these centers, and I've seen the enthusiasm that the program has created across institutional boundaries and geographical distances. Centres have established close cooperation with the leading international research community in the field concerned. Here Norway has taken a grip that can give us a leading position in environmental technology and eventually make us independent of the oil economy and the oil industry. Environmental energy research centres also have wide business outflows. In the South, both the supplier industry, the process industry and energy plants have been very committed. That's how we need interaction if we're going to be able to develop a forward-looking, knowledge-based business policy. Good and trusting cooperation between industry and the research community is important for the future and for good results. Therefore, it is important that we have a strong technological research environment in those parts of the country where we have a strong and forward-looking business life. Centres are also committed to the training of researchers, which is a tool for building the future research environment. We thus link the important alliance between basic research and applied research, which is often easy to forget when a person talks about using research. The size has reason to rejoice that it allowed the basis for this effort through the climate agreement. And the government has reason to rejoice that they have implemented the program in a very successful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1935	The Scandinavian community is glued to Nordic cooperation and an amazing resource that is important to take care of. Having a common understanding in Scandinavia is a cultural issue that opens up cooperation in a broad range of sectors of society, and it is a community of languages on which it is important to build, not least in relation to a linguistic and economic strategy with regard to globalisation in the world. In this context, Scandinavia is a region which, in an enlarged sense, also includes the Nordic region. To the Nordic Minister of Cooperation, I would like to say that it is a good tip for the Government to go back to the Nordic Language Declaration to remember what ambitions it adds. The way the Government handles the Nordic language work, the way it sees it as one-sided to be a matter for the education sector. It's not. But the education sector is important, and the school is important. It is my acquaintance that the Scandinavian language has fallen out of the curriculum of teachers. It's a very bad starting point for strengthening Scandinavian languages in school. I think it will be important in the further work, including within the Ministry of Education, to tighten up efforts in Swedish and Danish, in terms of – at least – getting it into the curriculum for teachers, but also in terms of the training actually given in schools and the work between schools, which is more about creating meeting points. Then I want to give a visit to the pilgrim theme. After all, the government is betting on pilgrimage, and has invested in the cultural budget in relation to it. I would like to say to the Minister of the Church that – when working on this – you should not forget that pilgrimage is primarily a method of active faith development. This is not a commercial heading for a kind of hiking route primarily aimed at local accommodation and hotel accommodation. This is about people seeking recognition in a special way and from a religious point of view. It must be taken into account when developing this member, in terms of what it means in terms of prices, in terms of availability, in terms of opening hours – this whole picture must have its origin in the Church, not in a commercial project, which you can get the impression of following in the other government priorities in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1946	Research may be one of the most important things we use our resources on. Norwegian business and Norwegian research are in several areas world-leading, and I am proud of this. In this article I would like to focus on the right of nutrition research and the lack of registration of the right to nutrition research. We know there's a lot of research going on in business every single day. But unfortunately, much of this research is not registered as research at all. Often, new projects, new challenges, new solutions start with a business-to-business agreement or customer agreement. Both parties focus a lot on solving the challenge. They're on, they're on, they're on, they're on, they're on, they're on, they're on, they're on, Usually a new product ends up technologically in many cases. Both parties, who have now lost hundreds of hours of work and often had large investments, are content with the results and proud of what they have achieved. What they forget to think about is that this is the nutrition right research, development and innovation that should definitely be registered and registered as a research project. When we hear that our business is too small, I get a little thoughtful. We need to have a dialogue with the business community, where all research and development of new projects are included in the research database/statistics. If we do this, I think we'll soon see that every day our business is researching. I also think we'll see that it will lift Norway as a research nation even a few dots. If we do this, I'm overestimated that our goal of research efforts is far on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1955	Let me start by saying that I'm happy that the private school agreement is permanent. I am pleased with the signals given by the Government, and I am glad that these schools are no longer throwing ball in the debate that some have tried to draw up today. I am also pleased that the church agreement is established, that it is so underlined that we will follow up, and that together we will follow up on what the previous committee and the previous bigotry were able to reach an agreement. I would also like to comment that the Progress Party says that the experience of the proste reform is ‘predominantly positive’ and that it is associated with the rest of the committee, except for the Christian People’s Party. However, I also record that in comments and articles, everything that is difficult to implement this reform is reported. That's exactly the Christian People's Party's point. The purpose of the reform is positive, but because of the lack of jobs it has given rise to major challenges. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen wondered if the Christian People's Party merely argued that we would have more practical approach, and thus cut all the hours. No, our main point is that we want more teachers instead of hours. That's why we've put it into the municipal framework and not into the hourly increase that the government has gone through. Several hours to Norwegian, math and English, which are the five hours spent in the previous round, is not a more practical approach in school. So this, along with the introduction year that the Christian People's Party wants to have for new teachers, I think it could give a good and exciting school. Then the representative asked Wøien where I was from the fact that the subject of work should not lead to study-specific goals. Then I thought: Have I read the wrong one late evening, let me be careful on the side. But now I've picked it up, and it's on page 26 in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line: ‘Requirements for competence in other foreign languages will still apply in order to receive a diploma from the preparatory education programme in secondary education.’ In addition, it says: ‘In this context, the government will assess whether the subject can also be offered to students who want the second foreign language.’ In other words, it's not reintroducing the electoral professions in high school, but it's creating a system where you don't have the opportunity to go further in the field of study. To Tor Bremer, who says that the only opposition comes with is more money, more money, and that's not what this is all about. No, but the sector was quite shocked when the answer from this government was that there was less money that was the solution. We've re-prioritized, and we spend money in a completely different way. The total economy we've managed to get into our budget, which in the financial debate we got credit for being decent and tidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1978	I would like to contribute a clarification and a challenge to the Progress Party. First of all, I understand that the representative Lien was hoping to get me wrong in fact, but I told him knowingly that the Swedish Progress Party was SEK 155 million. kr went to base. He can check that in the minutes. Some may feel that Lien's representative should be a better model for Norwegian schoolchildren, and concentrate when others speak. The second is that I would like to include a paradox in the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. They write there that they want to cut everything into Sami measures, and that they want to put the whole thing down. They will also cut into the scheme to ensure that young asylum seekers receive primary education. This is a cut that affects the rights of the indigenous population and the ability of young children to education. I have always believed that the Progress Party wanted to appear to be a law and order-party, but such cuts in fundamental rights are most likely in spite of Norwegian law. The rights of minorities and indigenous peoples are also human rights. Ensuring the ability of the indigenous population to take care of their cultural heritage and to ensure that children receive basic education are also part of democracy. Therefore, I wonder why the Progress Party seems to have so little respect for Norwegian law, human rights and democracy. In that case, it may seem that the Progress Party is completely in favour of central Norwegian values. I have also noticed that after the previous assembly election, the Progress Party received three representatives from the Sametinget. It is a bit like buying an apartment in a block that you have intended to tear. I note that the Progress Party believes that actions related to some sections of the population, such as joint or minority, are ‘unwanted special treatment’. It seems that they believe that this is how communities or minorities get special benefits, while the measures are really about, are fundamental rights and remedying special disadvantages to which the groups may be exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e1991	I think it is refreshing with sharp debates, but I want honest debates. I think maybe I'm among those here in the Chamber who have the best competence in Higher School Policy, and I think it's a pity that today I've had to take the Minister of Knowledge to talk nonsense about what's actually Right Policy. And crazy claims don't get any more correct from the fact that several red-green representatives go up here and make crazy claims about the right. The right has never been for ranking, and the right has never been for commercializing schools. In many ways today is almost a historic day in Stortinget, when the government parties have almost competed to get up on this pulpit and confess to the Knowledge Lift. That's what's needed, because now we really need a knowledge mobilization in Norwegian school. Today's TIMSS results in real science are not a pleasant reading and a new reminder that we jam has a bit of a job to do. Putting words on problems in Norwegian school can't be black paint. I believe that we do both Norwegian school and Norwegian students a great bear service and injustice if we do not deal with the actual challenges we have in school today. The commitment to basic skills was and is correct, and perhaps the most important contribution to preparing children and young people for later education and work in adulthood. If we are to escape from high school life, we must ensure that the students come from primary school with the necessary knowledge and skills on board. In addition, the school must take appropriate training more seriously at all stages. Students who are not A4 must not be presented with A4 solutions. Society cannot afford to lose valuable labour in the future, so the school needs to meet even more pupils as individuals and with the necessary humility and flexibility that it requires. The freedom of method for teachers is a pillar of this important work. The right is also concerned with making teaching more concrete and practical. We have proposed more appropriations for the science centres. I would also like to point out the Newton rooms, which are a great inspiration for teachers and students alike – and are important sources of inspiration and venues for future real-time students and researchers. So to the proposal that the Right has put forward today to reverse changes in characterization. I think everyone here is concerned that we should give the best possible feedback to the students. I'm a teacher myself, and I'm used to giving additional feedback on larger tests. But the new provision implies that every small test should be accompanied by a lot of written comments from the teachers. That's what the Right will bring to life. We are pleased that the government parties say that the proposal can be submitted, and hope this means that the Council of State will intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2006	The President would point out that expressing that someone is speaking falsely, is decided in the frontier country for what is good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2010	It looks like we can get through the debate before 16:00. I have a couple-three comments on today's debate. Firstly, I would like to underline some of the claims that have come after my first post today, and this is about the left hand lines, among other things. in the replacement line after Tora Aasland. I haven't announced any significant cuts in the university and higher education sectors. I have not said that this sector is going to ‘blow’. Students and students, schools, universities and colleges will be invested in the coming years. It says in Soria Moria II, and there's no doubt that is going to be a reality. But my point was that there's going to be tighter public budgets, harder than what we've been used to. The action room will be determined a little by how we manage the sick pay, disability benefit and the entire welfare package, which the representative Trettebergstuen had in mind. But what we're going to do over the next few years means that the university and university sectors are not being shielded from change and change. That was my main score. Secondly, the representative Hanekamhaug has taken up the private schools and repeated that there is a shift of lines, changes and something incoherent in the politics of the government parties. On the contrary, I think our policy is very clear. We're against commercial private schools, but we want alternative teaching facilities in private schools that have it. But the Progress Party has on its side come up with confusing answers to questions, because as I understand it, the Advance Party does not want the student payment in private schools, and they are unclear about dividends from school owners. In the previous period, the Progress Party was both for school money and for dividends. It's possible there's a line shift going on, but it's unclear. Finally, the debate on Ibsen. I think it's good, no matter what kind of education you take, which school you go to, that you know why Nora went. Knowing your Ibsen isn't about what level of education you're at. Ibsen is generally valid regardless of culture, regardless of educational background, regardless of the country in which you live, and the time you live. Very much Ibsen is good. It's about an interesting distinction, perhaps, because it's not like people who choose vocational education have more weight in it with regard to Ibsen or other theory. But what we're talking about, maybe, is that if you're not interested and you think some subjects are boring, it makes a lot more demands on pedagogics, as opposed to being very interested in school. Then the teacher's requirements may be less in terms of educational content. It's a more interesting debate than who should be allowed to learn their Ibsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2021	I could have made some points here about how important it is with the BKA bet, and how horrific it is that the Right and Advance Party cut in the appropriations for the Education League, but I was accused by the representative Lien of having a disproportionate interpretation of Hanekamhaug's contributions to the election campaign for the Moors and the Romsdal. I don't know, but giving them the cookbook, hammers and voltmeters is probably a gross oversimplification in itself. Lien says something interesting. He says he wants mechanics who can read manuals, not discuss Ibsen. Well, there's a pretty big ideological difference between the undersigned and the representative Lien. One of the reasons a doll home is still being played is that it is still relevant. For example, Nora wanted to. realize itself. She wanted out of a relationship where she was for wrong reasons. Education is just about this too – realising yourself, making your own choices, being able to go out and do something else. I want car mechanics with a sense of community. I think, as the representative Aasen said, we get a better society when we have car mechanics who know why Nora went. Ibsen is a social critic of rank. Limiting that legacy to just some of those who are the most attractive from before is to deprive those young people who are not allowed to participate in it, an important experience and part of their cultural heritage. I think you're better equipped to live with someone you're happy with, for example, when you're standing with Ibsen in your hand, than if you're standing with just hammers and cookbook. But the Progress Party may be pleased with an Education Norway that produces people who can read manuals, as long as they can read the manuals of Tord Lien. Ibsen's criticism may not be as relevant as we think. Perhaps we also see some of the criticism of the gender roles here today, when it's the representative Tord Lien who has to defend the posts of Mette Hanekamhaug in her local election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2040	In my first post, there was a point to me that there was a lack of noise from the opposition, at least at the height of the helicopter noise associated with Barack Obama outdoors, even up with a relatively large consensus in the superior policy of the sector. But in some areas it was an indication of various political curvatures. I will now highlight this in my article. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has some additions to its draft budget. That's all right. But what's not good enough for us is that they've been going to finance this by sending the bill to the grandparents by adding to the roof for the babysitting. This doesn't have our grandchildren lit up. But the greatest and most dramatic thing about research and education policy is seen with the total cut in regional research funds. These research funds are going to be the backbone of our future development. This development work has the primary responsibility of the county councils and will in the future be much more research-based than it is today. Therefore, these regional research funds are crucial in this work. In fact, the point of regionalising part of research funding is to put the search light on a different knowledge development than what is prioritised from a national point of view. I let myself take some examples from the West to illustrate the point a little bit. We're talking about research linked to the development of nutrition related to aquaculture, and then a named Westland programme for new farming species. I can mention in flång: fjord Norway's investment in travel life, knowledge of our fjord systems, fjord systems that people from all over the world come to Norway to look at, and that we can do nothing and nothing about. We talk about berries and fruits in agriculture, and we talk about renewable energy. We're talking about the use of protected areas as a heritage area, and we're talking about our national parks. This was a small glitch across the most recent research areas in the Western region. In other parts of the country, there may be other important themes. But the tragic thing is that this important research for regional development and for the future creation of value in the country will flatten out the Progress Party, and, in part, the Right too. What I'm wondering is that the Progress Party and the Right in many contexts are apparently honestly occupied with business's possibilities and framework conditions. The big paradox is, why won't the Progress Party contribute to the development of the business environment and businesses in our parts of the country? It is not apparent from the Nordic Progress Party and Tord Lien that the different parts of the country often have different nutritional bases [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2053	The President asks the representative to respect the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2056	As the longtime leader of Grimstad – the city of the poets, with the background of Hamsun and Ibsen's life in the city, it was tempting to take another debate now, but I'm going to go back to script. State Council Aasland is wondering why the Right is so dissatisfied. Well, simply because our sense of reality is consistent with that sector that has given feedback. I also want to mention some extra single challenges. The University of Stavanger and the University of Agder are the newest universities. They have asked for and waited for a review of the financial instrument. They are expected to provide in line with the other universities, while still receiving basic appropriations in the context of the grants they had as colleges. Further funding is adjusted to what they deliver. With a much lower starting point, it becomes difficult to reach. This can quickly become a self-enhancing, negative spiral. The government has now concluded that there is no basis for making changes to the financial instrument. So the government is substituting a difference between universities. Another challenge is lack of maintenance. At Ås there is today a building mass so poorly maintained that parts of the buildings had to be closed for safety reasons. So the lack of investment in construction means that the number of places to study needs to be reduced. Then I have to be allowed to comment on the biggest record bomb I think I've ever heard from this pulpit. Freddy de Ruiter compared the Right's resistance to the tax lists — with detailed information on the income and wealth of individuals — with our desire to publish school results at group or school level. The comparison is hopeless. In addition, if it's strange that the Right is opposite one and the other, then it's probably as strange that the Ruiters and the Workers' Party are for one and against the other. As the representative himself said, further comment should be unnecessary. The treatment of the 2010 state budget gives cause for concern about the areas we are dealing with today, especially because none of the state councils are near to convincing me that there is improvement in sight!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2071	The fact that the Minister of Science Kristin Halvorsen is trying to misrepresent the Right School Policy is now one thing, but she is also trying to decorate SV's own sad school history – and it's getting a little late. I would quote from an interview that her predecessor, former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal, gave to the magazine Education in May 2008: ‘SV lacked a comprehensive education policy. As a member of the government, it doesn't seem like a party just to be against Kristin Clemet and what she did. Much of the responsibility lies with the former committee leader. He devalued systematic knowledge. We simply took over an educational policy that was too lightly thoughtful and easy to attack. The two unsuccessful election campaigns of the party leadership in school must also take some of the blame. Both the election campaign in 2001 and 2003 revealed a serious failure in our education policy. In addition to criticism from the civilians, we received many and justified reactions from our own teachers and schoolchildren. They didn't recognize the school party. That's why we became a grateful target for the opposition. SV had to design a new foundation for education policy.’ So the presentation that the current Minister of Knowledge is trying to give here in Stortinget is wrong. SV lost the school policy struggle at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of the 2000s. We – and not least Norwegian students – should be happy for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2083	In the debate, it has been claimed that the Progress Party is so very concerned with testing and testing for the students. This is absolutely right. But it's not to bother anyone or to put anyone in the gaping stick. On the contrary, it is in order to follow the Training Act, where one places emphasis on individual students being trained according to their own abilities and assumptions. And to find out what level the student is at, it needs to be tested and tested. This is also important for the teacher, student and parents, so that the student actually receives training, follow-up and feedback on how his or her development is. Several have stated in the debate that the teacher is the most important person in the school. This is why the Progress Party wants the teacher to receive feedback from students and supervisors as well. Also in this case, it is important that students are tested regularly at all stages, to see if the teacher is able to transfer knowledge to the student. If the student does not have the expected development — measured over several years and assuming that it is the same teacher that has the class — yes, then this must have consequences for the teacher. Tests and tests consider the Progress Party to be at the best of the student – in order to obtain the best possible learning outcomes. There are good teachers, and someone who needs further education. And someone should probably find something completely different to do. I have also noticed that representatives from the government parties are positive that methods of testing the students are being developed, but they do not defy it skillfully for tests or tests. What it's called means little to the Progress Party. The most important thing is that it benefits the student — in the form of a good learning outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2092	Anne Tingelstad Wøien has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2095	I feel the need to provide some clarification. To the representative Eriksen: I asked her where she had it from that one was bound to follow the subject of an elected professional – that is what I meant. I did not mean this in relation to the fact that someone then would be able to choose the study-specializing subject further. In that case, I misunderstood the representative Eriksen. I fully agree that this will not be introducing the old electoral profession again, but it will allow for more practice in high school by choosing away the second foreign language and depression in Norwegian and English, which I think has perhaps been the biggest bend in this particular period. So to the representative Hanekamhaug, who I think has chosen to misunderstand about private schools. I think I said that the most important thing is to make sure that we have a good common school, which has room for everyone, wherever they come from – also geographically. The centre party is opposed to such a price financing scheme as the Progress Party proposes, which we believe will lead to a solid centralisation of schools across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2110	Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2113	First of all, I would like to inform you that we wish to vote in favour of proposal No. 22, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. So it was this thing with Torvald and Nora. The point is not whether Ibsen, Roy Jacobsen, Bjørnstar, Shakespeare, Descartes, the brothers Grimm or Socrates – for that matter – is the limit on how far the theory of the professions should go, but that we cannot discuss the dropout in high school without having a dialogue on the theory of the professions, which the government also takes the consequences of, in the form of practical training in primary school. So Bremer – who claims that I am a representative of Northern Ireland – says that the regional research funds are the difference between a good and a disastrous research policy. That means that the red-green government led a disastrous research policy in the first four years of their fall. The Progress Party does not wish to further fragmentation of research policy and transfers these funds to the National Research Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2123	The technical school that I know best lies in Ålesund. It is not special, and therefore I believe that the situation in which the school is can also apply to other specialised schools that are heavily underfunded. The Christian People's Party, in its comments, has asked for a review of the funding system for the vocational schools – and that is what is needed. Vocational education is important both for offering practically strong students and students and not least for business. Those who go to a technical school and receive a diploma go straight into the companies. I can mention an example from the School of Trade in Ålesund. There they have a budget need of 51 million. kr to operate as they operate today, while the state transfers of funds to the county, to which this school is entitled, are about. Thirty-five million. kr – it’s a big gap. So the result is that the school has to drop classes, and the most serious thing is that they have to put down the entire study offer. In Ålesund, it is estimated to put down the lines of mechanical engineering and electrical engineering, and this at a time when we know it is difficult for the shipyard and supplier industries. We need a high school that right now becomes terribly important to the companies, so they can send their employees to school and training. These are the periods we are going to use for training and training. Then I ask myself the question: Is it the government's attitude to reduce the offer here in the country? Then I think the government should be very clear on that. The Christian People's Party hopes for a viable school offer in which the state not only transfers responsibility for the vocational school offer to the counties but also provides enough funds to provide a good and important school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2132	I have to say that after hearing the last part of this debate, I know that the liberal in me is getting really upset. The struggle for education in a society is about the struggle to spread knowledge in such a way that everyone has a certain basic knowledge of culture, society and all important branches of a society. It means that seams if you're going to be an academic, you need to understand how hard it is to be a furniture carpenter. You actually have to realize that it is a craft you should have respect for. Then you need to know about it. It is also a matter of when the same piece of furniture arrives at any dinner, for example. If he ends up as Skei Grandes follows Obama's dinner tomorrow, no one will be able to establish that he doesn't know his Nora. That's what this is about – that's why it's important to fight for education. It is important that everyone should have a basic knowledge of society, because no one should be in the hands of others and claim that they are unable to participate in any debate. It's not about everyone having to do the same operation, but everyone has to be able to argue why they don't like the opera. That's what formation is about, and that's what the fight is here. But there's no contradiction to raising respect for the subjects again. The problem with the system we've created in high school now is that if you burn to be a hairdresser -- that's what you want to do, that's what you want to contribute to -- then it's not safe, if you're placed in the same class as the one who burns to become a furniture carpenter, that both of the burning engagements are called at the same time. Because the width is so large in our fans that we can't grow the wish. If you're going to be a piece of furniture or a hairdresser, the chance is you're going to be at the Norwegian Theatre and you're going to make scenes for Nora, pretty big, if you're really good at it. Then you have to know it, and then you have to know it, and there's no one who can dub you here. But that was not my point that we have downgraded the subjects as a subject. My point is that you have to have an incidence angle for the different educations based on your burning commitment and your desire to get into your profession. Then you may not be able to make that spirit. I know – because I've been a high school teacher – that being able to make the burning desire to learn their Nora may have to be done differently, if the dream is to be a hairdresser, while the other's dream is to become a furniture carpenter. I have to use the last 30 seconds to comment that everyone agrees that we're getting less to route. All opposition parties have less to walk with, but the challenge is to prioritize knowledge when you get less routed. That's why I think there have been frightening tactics from the government parties, which believe that at a time when you're really going to do things in the country, it's not important to bet on knowledge, while in the Left we think that the most important thing is to bet on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2145	I refer you to Mr. Harberg's posts, where he claims that the undersigned has misunderstood the comparison between characters and tax lists. Of course I don't. I might have been even more accurate in my post and said ‘results of the national tests’, but results and grades are kind of the same, but there I might have been extra alert. But there is absolutely no misunderstanding that we want to be careful about publishing the results of the national tests. We believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party want full liberalisation and the greatest possible access to ranking is negative. In fact, we believe that this can lead to bullying situations in schools and that some schools – for which we have unfortunately had some suspicions and where there have been speculations – keep individual students away from the national tests, etc. etc. So it has consequences. I think it's strange, but I'm still not surprised that the opposition parties, and especially the Right Party and the Advance Party, think it's important to get as much ranking as possible, as much publicity as possible, while when you come to people with good income, their taxes should not be published. It shall be public, but it shall not be made public. This is about ideology. It's about human vision. It's about choice. Here we have different points of view, and I think to the extent that it is possible to arrive at the political differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2156	No matter how we turn it around and turn it around, it can't be said that someone has at any time announced that education and knowledge are down-priorities even if there are tighter frameworks. It's the opposite. Some of the things that worry us a lot – and I think that is happening across party divisions – are the increase in sick leave, all those who could well have a job, but who are shut out of the labour market, the young people with disabilities who are not allowed to try out, etc. – all these challenges we have. What we know is that if they complete secondary education, they have a much greater chance of staying in the labour market for a long time. Thus, some of this effort we are making over our budgets, precisely what prevents the exclusion from the labour market that is a major problem for individuals, but also for the economy in the future. Non-response is the biggest challenge we have in this way. I think it's important that you have a nuanced debate about the relationship between theory and practice. It is quite obvious that there are too many students who are not met in the way they are most intelligent: from their hands to their heads, instead of from their heads to their hands. It's not necessarily about introducing many new subjects into high school, but it's about how to work in high school. This upper secondary vocational education is intended to provide a practical device. It would be to hope that the other subjects in high school can also be turned in that direction, so that you can be able to get more practical training in high school in many areas. It is not the case that the possibility of having a study qualification is eliminated if you choose an upper secondary vocational training course, but it is the case that, in order to have a study qualification, you have to have a second foreign language. This can be done by taking three years of second foreign language in higher education. So to this discussion about Nora and theory and non-theory. My hope is that you know your Nora before you go to high school. But it's not necessarily that you understand your Nora until you get up a little bit in the years! It's always wise to know their Ibsen, especially in dealing with foreigners, because it's awfully embarrassing if they can do a little more. Otherwise, I recommend that you do not take the goal of being able to match any table cavalry you will get. It often keeps them going by asking. Some are incredibly good at answering! [[Laughter]] Spooky aside, the discussion on how to organise theoretical knowledge in a society that will be sought is a challenge for those who choose vocational training. We're not going to get rid of that. On the contrary, we're going to work very hard on it, because I think the key to some of the non-response is also there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2169	Mr Bremer has spoken twice before in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2172	I need a brief comment on the regional research funds. It has been said that no other European country is as lowly nutrient homogeneous as Norway, and there is enough evidence that the resource base, the industrial structure and, in the next round, the research needs may differ widely from one part of the country to another. This is a decisive understanding of why regional research funds are established. I note that the Progress Party does not have this understanding, nor does it want to contribute to future growth when it comes to regional industrial development. It is a pity because there is an incredible amount of work to be done in local businesses based on local, regional resources. They also need the research-based drag aid that businesses often get, but it's not always they get that understanding from the central research stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2179	Dagrun Eriksen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2182	I'm not so worried that the theory is threatened in Norwegian school. It's going to survive, both our history and our cultural heritage. It's going to be strong. I'm concerned about practically strong students – whether the school is going to be able to meet and grow them and give them challenges that make them also aware that their abilities are being met. There's my concern. Then it could be that instead of trying to read about Nora, it might be exciting to see Nora or even play Nora and get space for practical aesthetics in a completely different way. We don't have to read to understand. I think that's very important. So I'm really glad that the Council of State is now signaling that the subject of employment is one part and not the big solution to how we're going to get the practical challenge solved in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2191	Elisabeth Aspaker has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2194	We almost end up in a co-ordinated tribute to Ibsen. It's obvious that he matters to all of us. Knowledge of school is important in order to make improvements in school. That's the background for right-wing openness. The secrecy that government parties are trying to add up to around some of the results in school, we want to replace with a culture of transparency, simply because we think that well-adapted training is not feasible without a better knowledge of what's going on in school. In addition, it is a fact that neither the Department nor the Council of State can hold back the results obtained by the media. But I agree with the Council of States that these lists are not desirable, but perhaps it was less tempting to do so if the results were less mysteriously presented when they arrived. Then I would like to say that the Council of State should perhaps intervene in its own party traps which here in the Chamber are cancelling discussions on measures relating to the sickness pay scheme, which can give this sector more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2205	Freddy de Ruiter has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2209	It is positive that the Right now signals that they are skeptical of ranking. I think that's a step forward, and we're going to take that with us. So the Right argues that, in order to know as much as possible, it is important to have the best possible publication of the results, among other things. by national samples. Then I wonder why one does not transfer that reasoning to the tax lists. It must then be important to know who pays taxes in this country and how much they pay, in order to produce the best possible tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2216	Several have not asked for the floor, so the debate on Ibsen and Nora and case No. 1 over. [[(Ambition in the hall) (Votation, see page 1012)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2233	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2250	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2267	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2272	Then is the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting. The President will now cancel the meeting, and a new meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2291	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 5, 6, 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2342	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and members of the Government 15 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2353	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation and also for the work that has been done. This is the first budget debate for the new Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and I believe that the work of the Committee has so far shown that this merger was correct. It is becoming increasingly difficult to see defence, security, foreign and development policies separately. There is broad agreement on many of the major issues of Norwegian foreign and defence policy. For a small country such as Norway, it is important to have consensus around areas that are important for Norwegian interests. That does not mean, however, that political disagreement does not occur, and I will come back to that. The action space for Norwegian foreign policy is often illustrated by the term ‘strategic triangle’, which describes Norway’s location between Europe, Russia and the transatlantic region. The triangle continues to illustrate key issues for Norway. Firstly, Norway’s relationship with Europe is regulated by the EEA Agreement, an agreement that is becoming less and less familiar with and less interested in the EU, an EU that is now bringing into force the Treaty of Lisbon, and transferring power to bodies in which Norway has little influence. Secondly, we are a neighbour of a more self-confident Russia, to which we must maintain a clean and constructive relationship. At the same time, we see that the country has very big internal challenges. Our relationship with Russia is at the forefront of the North, both in terms of challenges, and in terms of opportunities for good cooperation and neighbourhood. Here I would like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for establishing the concept of High North – Low Tension in the international environment. The third side of the triangle is made up of the transatlantic relationship and our alliance in NATO. The alliance is the cornerstone of our security policy. NATO is developing a new strategic concept, and the balance of the alliance will also be discussed. The operation in Afghanistan is a clear example of how the NATO countries bear the burden differently, and there will be a debate on the future NATO will be an alliance in internal and external circles. Just Afghanistan is the place where many of the threads of Norwegian security, foreign, development and defence policies are brought together. We are involved in the international efforts of both civil and military instruments – across the spectrum, from humanitarian aid through long-term development aid and state building to soldiers. The Afghanistan exposure really shows the need to see policy in context. The crash just had an interpellation debate on Afghanistan. I should therefore not say so much about the situation, but nevertheless point out some aspects I believe are serious. President Karzai must now deliver, and after a disappointing election, the demands of Afghan authorities must be strengthened. Getting to this is absolutely crucial. It is also very challenging that the UN, UNAMA, is now weakened in Afghanistan. It weakens the coordination of civil efforts. UNAMA needs to be strengthened. In a more national perspective, there is growing concern from our soldiers in Afghanistan that the principal and watertight shoots between the civil and military efforts provided by Norway operate only on paper here at home and not on the ground in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, the government chooses to stick to this distinction, which means that the total Norwegian effort of nearly DKK 1.8 billion per year is not as effective as it could have been. Previous coordination of efforts and closer cooperation between civil and military contributions are essential. Over a certain period of time, a distinction has emerged between those of us who believe that there is a great imbalance between the tasks of the defence and the budgets, and those who believe that everything is heading towards the most beautiful order. It is serious when reports from the Defence and the National Audit Office show a completely different picture of the situation than the picture The Stortinget is presented through the budget proposal. It is also serious where, on repeated occasions in the form of a comment, a majority of the Committee must stress the importance of giving the Storting a more thorough and specific decision-making basis than at present, and that it is possible for the Storing to follow up and control deviations and developments through the annual budgets. I hope and expect that the Government and the new Council of State will add to another and far more open practice for information about and from the Defence, both to create an informed and realistic debate and to ensure that the decision-making base of the Storing is as correct as possible. This is not least important for the defence itself. I take this up with me the proposal on which the Right and Christian People's Party stands together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2383	The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, then addressed the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2388	Norway’s defence, and to the extent that defence elsewhere was previously characterised by a large number of bases and camps spread across a large geographical area. Now the times are different and the defence structure is looking gradually, after some hard structural changes, different. NATO's new Secretary General, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, was recently in Oslo. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, Mr Rasmussen was concerned that the defence of NATO countries was too flexible, I believe even he used the term 'concern'. Too many of the resources were tied up in fixed structures, said the Secretary-General. In the Right Budget for next year, does the Right propose more money to maintain firm bases and structures, and the question is: does this fit with the wishes of NATO's Secretary-General for the future defence of NATO countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2395	The representative Sverre Myrli and I had the pleasure of being present at the same meeting with the Secretary-General of NATO. It is absolutely right that he expressed concern that many NATO countries have commitments to their defence budgets that do not make their efforts flexible enough. I think a more important concern is the concern I have that the operational capability of the defence is not good enough. It can also have consequences for our NATO operations and our NATO commitments. The National Audit Office recently pointed out that the fact that there is now such a huge imbalance between the defence tasks and the defence economy makes it increasingly difficult to practice, increasingly difficult to fly, increasingly difficult to operate — it is beyond the operational capability, and it can also affect our obligations in relation to NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2402	The Palestinians have lived for more than 40 years under a brutal occupation. The number of settlements increases, the wall causes the Palestinians to be locked in and society to be suffocated. There is a formidable need for reconstruction in Gaza following the ground invasions of Israeli forces one year ago. There is a situation where support for the Palestinian Government and the Palestinian institutions is more important than ever. Norway has entered into international commitments and has provided support to the Palestinian region. It would be alarming if Norway were to break these commitments, in view of Norway's role in international conflict resolution and peace efforts in the Middle East, and our role as leader of the donor countries group, AHLC. The right will propose to cut regional allocations to the Middle East by almost a third, such as: will result in a reduction of long-term projects within priority areas, possibly decommissioning them. Does the representative Eriksen Soreide think that such a cut gives a correct signal about Norway's Middle-East bet?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2411	It is important to support the Palestinian self-government authorities, but it is also important to ask the authorities by today is able to receive and absorb the type of assistance currently provided. In addition, there is a major problem with much of the assistance given, that it is difficult to control whether the money is being used for what they should, simply because the systems in the recipient countries are not robust enough, are not transparent enough. For example, there is no national audit, which Norway often uses to check that the money we set aside for different purposes actually comes out. It is important to strengthen self-government, it is also important to support the work done in the Middle East, but we have therefore chosen from the Right to make a very clear priority. We have prioritised Africa, the poorest in the world. That means that we're giving priority to other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2418	In addition to prioritising Africa, the right has also given priority to Afghanistan, and the representative expressed concern about the development of Afghanistan in its intervention. In the Right’s comments, direct budget support is also critical of the development budget. My question to the representative, Mr Soreide, is how to develop Afghan authorities, an Afghan police force, an Afghan army if we do not use the instrument of direct budgetary support, to which the right in the form of an observation is very critical?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2423	It is absolutely right that the Right is concerned about the development that is taking place in Afghanistan. We're not the only ones doing it. It has, for example, have been expressed very strongly by the United States not only a desire, but also a demand that Afghan authorities now have to take more seriously the work, for example. with anti-corruption measures. This means that very much of the money that both Norway and other countries give for civil construction is disappearing. It is a general concern, as I said in my previous answer, that direct budget support is not actually a contribution to getting all the money out of it. This means that many of the countries receiving direct budget support do not have mechanisms that can absorb the money and ensure that they are properly monitored. When we use the Riksrevision for that, it's an important tool to make sure that the money doesn't go away. We have seen many examples of direct budget support never reaching people in those countries that it will help. That is why I believe that there must be other instruments than direct budget support to help countries, such as the United Kingdom. Afghanistan, in construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2428	We are here in Stortingen today in a budget debate where we have a very divided opposition. We clearly see this in the area of the aid budget, where the Right in its alternative budget proposes an increase in aid of 400 million. kr. It is much lower than the 1.2 billion proposed by the government parties, while the Christian People's Party on its side proposes to increase assistance beyond what the Government proposes by 303 million. kr. Then we have the Progress Party on the other hand, which criticises much of the aid policy pursued by the current government. My question to the Right is: What will the Right do to convince a potential future government partner to increase the assistance from 2009 level by 400 million. kr is more correct than raising by 1,500 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2436	This is not about other parties. It's not about the Christian People's Party or the Advance Party, but it's about making a development policy that works. There I think we still have a lot to go on. I notice that the proposal now presented by the Right in its alternative budget is approximately. 425 million. kr higher than the Government’s estimate was a historical level for the current year. That means we're focusing on assistance, but we've done some very clear priorities. We are more thematic, for example. on health and education. We're betting more on Africa. We are turning up aid to Africa in line with the Government's proposals. That's because we want to use the aid to help the very poor. But it's like all the parties have to be involved in discussing whether the aid we have today works well enough. We spend $27.4 billion a year on aid. It is almost not allowed to discuss whether the assistance works, and whether it works as we would like it to. I'm, like the rest of the Right, to spend a lot of money on aid and development, but I'm to spend it in a way that works. Then I think we have to take the discussions that the Right wants to travel in the budget position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2443	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2446	This is the first time the foreign and defence budgets have been dealt with at the same time. I agree with the chairman of the committee that it will prove that this aggregation will be successful. The debate is taking place at a time when there are many important issues on the international agenda. Tomorrow, President Obama will accept the peace prize for the opportunities he has created on the international agenda. A new disarmament agreement may be in place soon. As we debate, soldiers with the Norwegian flag are marching on the arm of three continents. In Copenhagen, the climate conference is under way. We are facing common problems in a world that is becoming stronger and stronger together, and our foreign policy has an ambition in addition to caring for its own interests. It has the ambition to create a safer world and a better world even beyond the borders of Norway. The Copenhagen Climate Summit is one of the most important international meetings ever held. The goals and actions of world leaders to agree within the end of the next week can determine how our common future will be shaped. Norway has set ambitious targets on the table. We will take responsibility for cuts in our own emissions. We are going to contribute financially to the limited growth of poor countries in their own countries. However, one of the most important things we contribute is our initiative to stop deforestation. There has been a broad international outreach. The 2010 budget proposes to increase the funds for this work by about one-third, to DKK 2.1 billion. At the same time, this area is an example of where the dividing lines are now in Norwegian foreign and development policy – between the Progress Party and all the other parties. Where we want to increase, the Progress Party will cut. The Climate Change Conference is also a component of the ability of countries to meet common challenges with joint actions. It is a test of the ability of countries to commit themselves to doing what is necessary to avoid a development that will affect us all. It is also a test of the will of the rich countries to take responsibility for their own development. It is a test of the will of the rich countries to assist the poor countries with money and technology so that they can avoid the phases of their economic development that are not environmentally sustainable. In the world's economic crisis, it is important that, even in a time of crisis, we also show the will to strengthen aid to the poor countries. Here, too, the dividing line goes between all of us and the Progress Party. The Progress Party will broadly halve the funding for Africa, the Palestinians, South America and the UN aid organisations. The progress party's cut in development aid for the world's poor amounts to nearly 9 billion dollars. It covers most of the tax relief proposed by the party to the inhabitants of one of the world's most prosperous societies. This will clarify the political profile of the party. Our main clear foreign policy interest is in maintaining and further developing a robust regional and global legal order. It involves a better organized world, where power is just ahead of it. In this form, the UN and regional actors play important roles as the EU. There is no disagreement about this priority here in Stortinget. However, a robust international legal system is not just based on international treaties and bodies. Robustness will also rest on a more equitable world, a world in which all countries feel that they are getting involved in economic development, where all countries are given the opportunity to combat poverty. The struggle for human rights, of which there is also a broad consensus on the importance, is not just about regimes based on one-sided ideologies or religious error. It is also about inhumane living conditions and poverty. Therefore, active development policy is an important part of the work of a global legal order, for a fair world. Yes, it is part of Norwegian interest policy because this is linked to the stability and security we want. Therefore, the Progress Party lacks an important element in a foreign policy that, overall, is best placed to take care of Norwegian interests, when they provide so roughly the development funds. In addition to the current climate summit and the likely follow-up next year, Afghanistan is the second major international challenge next year. We are going to continue both our comprehensive military contribution and our contribution to the civil building in Afghanistan. However, the most important thing now will be better coordination of the overall efforts of ISAF and a faster build-up of the Afghan army and police force, so that the Afghans themselves can take an increasing responsibility for the security of the population. We must work to ensure that the international meeting on Afghanistan in January is able to put in place a solid strategy to help the Afghans to a safer and better future. Other speakers from the Labour Party will address both the aid budget, the defence budget and other parts of the foreign budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2472	With the assistance budget of the Progress Party, we are well above the level recommended by the United Nations to all the countries of the world, i.e. 0.7 pst. of GNI. If the development budget of the Progress Party were what was in place, Norway would still be among the world's leading donors. But when the representative measures the development policy in the number of dollars spent – because it seems that it is what he is doing – I would ask: Does the representative not agree that a good development policy is measured according to what results we achieve, and how many people we can bring out of poverty – that is what we need to be evaluated on?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2477	Of course, these are the results that count here, as elsewhere. However, the volume of aid that can be measured in dollars is not insignificant in achieving results. It is important that development projects continue to be evaluated and assessed so that they can be put in place where they can be most effective. Here, we are distributing our efforts both on the bilateral and on the multilateral level, so that we get the best possible coordination of the overall development effort in the world. Of course, it is part of development to have a trade policy. That is why we are also committed to establishing a new WTO agreement that can bring more of the poor countries into world trade flows, which will also provide a basis for better development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2484	The right broke last year's negotiations with the red-greens about the long-term plan that was adopted for the Defense, with the clear background that we thought the level of appropriations that the Government laid down was not sufficient. In the consultations on the budget, we heard from the organisations again that there is a clear imbalance between what is granted and what is expected to be resolved by the Defence. The trustee scheme used, inter alia: As an example, in the Engineering Battalion this year, only one third of what is the agreed target for these soldiers was shot. We also know that the Army in 2010 is probably going into its most difficult year in terms of exercises and training. Nevertheless, we constantly see that the red-greens have a totally different understanding of reality than the command, soldiers and officers experience in everyday life. My question is whether the representative Svein Roald Hansen at all thinks there is a problem that the perception of the economic situation is so different.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2493	So in terms of defence, we are following the long-term plan adopted by a majority in the United Kingdom. The Government is essentially obliged to follow up what is decided upon in the Storting. That plan aims to strike a balance between tasks and resources in 2012. We are in a major upheaval in the Defence – and have been in the last eight years – with the phase-in of new weapon systems and the restructuring of defence from yesterday's mobilization defence to a modern response defense. Norway is in the forefront of this transition in NATO. It has taken time to fix the use of the money in the defense during this period. We remember the period 2001-2005 when the Riksrevision one of the years could not even approve the defence budget. We're on the right track, and in 2012 we're going to achieve the balance that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2500	I noticed that the representative Svein Roald Hansen in his reply now underlined the obligation of the Government to follow up what Stortinget says. I would like to remind you that a unanimous increase, in the form of a unanimous observation by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the context of the summer development announcement this year, concluded that the share of education aid will increase in Norway's total effort. This was not a Christian People's Party alone, it was a unanimous committee. The president probably remembers that it was wholeheartedly supported by the Workers' Party at that time. However, in the 2010 draft budget, there is no such increase. On the contrary, there is a further decline in the share of the education sector, after we have been informed by the ministry. My question is, Is this a temporary rest cut? Or will the representative Svein Roald Hansen and the Labour Party contribute to the future follow-up of this unanimous committee position?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2507	As a new member of the Committee, I must confess my lack of knowledge in this area. But I'll take the question with me, and then we'll evaluate it further. It is clear that the Government should focus on unique signals from the Storting, even if they come in the form of a comment, even though it is primarily in the decision Stortinget expresses itself – so I take it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2512	The situation of the defence has also been highlighted so far in the debate, and it is demanding. We have demanding international operations that we are involved in, among other things. in Afghanistan, and we have just had a ship off the Somali coast that we are now sending home. Even if we want to participate more, we don't have enough resources to do that. We lack crew, and the total situation is as it is. Does it worry about the Workers' Party? Does the Workers' Party at a general, somewhat general level mean that we should extend the defence framework to be in a better position to ensure security at home and to participate with greater flexibility in foreign operations when required?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2520	It was the Workers' Party that in its time took the initiative for the big change we are now in the final phase of, in terms of the Defence. I believe that we are now aiming at a reasonable level, balancing the tasks to be done here at home – together with our allies – and the efforts we can make in international missions. I believe that Norway has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the efforts we are making in Afghanistan, in the Gulf of Aden and elsewhere. I don't think we have to fool ourselves into a notion that we can always set up anywhere. We now see that even the world's strongest military power, the United States, through what has happened in recent years, has stretched its capacity – not only to the extreme, but probably a little longer. I think we all have the right level of defense, as it's now set up, and that's going to be when we're done with the transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2527	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2530	First, I must be allowed to say that I share the views of the Committee's chairman relating to Afghanistan. A week ago, the Ministerial Meeting of the World Trade Organisation was held, and hopefully it was a small step towards a new agreement. Unfortunately, there are some important countries that do not have the power to take the last decisive step — this despite a broad consensus that a new agreement will stimulate the world’s economies and bring new millions of people out of poverty, and not least it will be able to prevent new protectionism and be stabilising and anti-conflict. It is also worth noting that according to the UN Environment Programme and the World Trade Organisation, trade liberalisation will have a number of positive impacts on the environment and the climate. 2010 has now become the year in which the text of the agreement is to be put in place, but there is unfortunately legitimate reason to be skeptical. Such deadlines have come and gone. An actor who has to deliver is the United States. In rhetoric, there are few who price free trade more than just the United States, but in action, the country is just as likely to take protectionism as any Minister of Agriculture from the Centre Party. It is therefore important that Obama be clearly informed that we expect the United States to become a driver – not a brake pad – for more free trade. The United States must stand by its principles. But in order to give it the message with the necessary weight, it would have helped Norway put aside its own protectionist policy. While we are waiting for the United States and others to deliver, we can do much more at home to promote developing countries' trade interests. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party proposes to remove customs duties on imports into Norway for goods from all developing countries. We're also suggesting that we take 10 million. to trade facilities for the poorest countries – this to help them promote south-south trade and the demanding job to fit markets in Europe and in other countries. These funds are in addition to what Norway is already doing. We believe that Norway in the United Nations must support a system in which countries that stand out negative in relation to protectionism are mentioned and in good Norwegian put in the shamecrowd. The Progress Party believes that trade is an important prerequisite for developing countries to have a lasting foundation for moving out of poverty. Trade promotion combined with available capital in the form of private sector investment is a better way of operating development policy than the traditional and preferred Norwegian model. Evidence of the lack of assistance is many. They come from Africa, and they come from Norway. At the same time, they obviously do not make any particular impression on the political majority. Let me share with you two such testimonies. The first is from former vice-leader in Buskerud Arbeiderparti Tone Ellefsrud. She's been working in Tanzania for seven years. To the Evening Post this summer, she says, ‘Help money only helps to maintain a corrupt society.’ The second testimony comes from President Paul Kagamee of Rwanda, who said in a chronicle in the Financial Times earlier this year: Aid has not only failed to achieve its goals, it has rarely looked at the underlying causes of poverty and weak social structures. I could have made much more similar quotations from people who experience problems of close cooperation, but I am afraid that the great will for change is not present, either today or at the next year's budgetary proceedings. The criticism of aid is almost immoral, at least characterized by egoism, and is therefore something to be tarnished and isolated to the Progress Party. Thus, the rest of political Norway can continue as before by sending Norwegian crowns to aid projects that do not deliver long-term development. Those who point out the defects, and that the emperor is undressed, are rejected as unsolidarian or without knowledge. I've been participating in this ritual for a few years, and today's debate will probably shine in the same way. Russia and Norway are bound together in a community of fate. We're going to have to figure out each other. We're going to cooperate closely along many axes. With our other Nordic neighbouring countries, we have largely a linguistic and historical community that provides a natural climate of cooperation. The situation with Russia is different. Here, more organised efforts are needed to cultivate cooperation. It's e.g. positive note that, in particular, Russian students are increasingly using Norwegian universities. The other way is, unfortunately, a little less. In the Barents region, there is mainly good cross-border cooperation. However, we believe that it makes sense to take a holistic approach and look at cooperation from a more strategic point of view, and so the opposition has gathered for a note asking for a Russia strategy. We think this would make sense, not least to illuminate the whole spectrum of cooperation that is happening today, and discuss where it might be desirable to put in greater effort. Because we are of the opinion that such a strategy must lead to a broader engagement with Russia, not a smaller one. The defence situation deserves attention. A common view was established in the previous period that the bottom had been reached, and now more funds had to be provided otherwise the reduction would have to continue. The common recognition that the defense needed a lift was important, and it gives hope. However, there is every reason to ask whether the budgetary framework that has now been adopted is in line with the promises. The government parties clearly believe that the 395 million. kr with which the budget is increasing is enough. In order to say something meaningful about what the defense needs from resources, it is important to have a common understanding of what has been and is the actual situation. In the evening post on December 3rd, the Minister of Defence writes: ‘The development of the operational budget cannot therefore reasonably be said to have affected operational activity and capacity.’ I should like to refer to Document No. 3:6 for the 2008-2009 Riksrevisionen. It says: ‘Operational capability has been reduced overall for the years 2005-2007. The Chief of Defence’s reporting on 1 October 2008 shows that the operational capability also had a weak reduction compared to 2007 in 2008.’» It seems to me then, when I read these two quotes, as if the Minister of Defense has a completely different view of the situation in Defence than the National Audit Office and the defence environments outside the Ministry of Defence. The challenges are thus in line. There is every reason to believe that several of the fundamental challenges in defence are not adequately addressed in this budget. It should concern more than the Progress Party and the Right. We come back to the situation in the Army and the Heimevert later in the debate. I want to say something about the maritime defence situation. The basic ability to sail and thus be operational is a prerequisite for effective maritime defence. This ability is challenged by both crew shortages and lack of money. This happens in parallel with the declaration of the northern regions as the main strategic area of the Government, which is also widely supported by the Stortinget. Norway has also been granted sovereignty over new sea areas and ship traffic in the north is increasing. At the same time, the government chooses to lay down the marine base on Olavsverm. Thus, the reality of the operational activity is not in line with the more overall strategic objectives. Freight that stay at berth because of lack of resources is not the proper care of our resources. The goal must be more presence in the northern regions. Our participation internationally is both desirable and necessary. Possible sizes are limited naturally due to lack of crew and/or equipment. It's also a reality that we can't send everything out of the country. It's important to take care of at home. With the pressure it is now in order to participate in various foreign operations and to ensure domestic security, resources do not extend. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2581	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2586	I have two questions for the representative, Höglund. In its comments in the setting, the Progress Party says: ‘... it is important for Norway to make a more critical assessment of the role played by the United Nations and the tasks assigned to it. The UN must become both more relevant, more effective and more focused.» Could the representative point to any of the areas in which he believes that the UN should not be involved, if it should become more relevant and more effective? The second is a note where members of the Progress Party stress the importance of Norwegian foreign stations ‘getting the resources needed to safeguard the interests of Norwegian citizens in the event of unforeseen events’. Why, then, has the Progress Party cut 10 pst in its draft budget? in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ operating budget? This will, of course, weaken the capacity of foreign stations to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2602	We believe that there are some foreign stations that can be downgraded, either removed completely or converted to embassy offices. We explained that, among other things: in our 100-day campaign program, and there we're going to bring in the big savings. Many of the embassies that so far fall under this budget chapter are in places where we do not initially have the great political commitment, but where we are because we have other interests – not least development policy tasks. These resources – when we talk about caring for the interests of the Nordics – must be allocated to the embassies and offices where most of the Nordics live. It is linked to a few, increasingly, but far from all embassies and consulates that Norway has around the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2607	I see in the party programme of the Progress Party that they argue that contributions to development assistance should be based to a large extent on the goodwill of the individual: ‘On a principle, be strongly critical of the compulsory contribution to state development aid through taxation because it helps to weaken the individual’s personal sense of responsibility and desire. We will therefore limit State aid.’ We also see that in the draft budget. Furthermore, only one country is specifically mentioned in the Party's Party's development aid programme. It is now stated that the Progress Party is committed to ‘maintaining Norway’s development policy commitment to Afghanistan’. In the proposals of the Progress Party, we also see that Afghanistan is one of the few items that have not been subjected to cuts. What is it that makes the Progress Party so strong that contributions are more successful in Afghanistan than elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2619	This is a very relevant question. If we were sloppy that we succeed in the way we provide help in Afghanistan, I would have lied. We may be as insecure as many others, but we are involved in that project for many reasons – because it concerns us, it concerns our security, we are there military, and we are there civil. We think it's important to maintain a kind of consensus around that project. But many of our principal considerations, not least about state aid, not least how the aid is used by international organisations also applies in relation to Afghanistan. We will follow this very closely in the future, and we have not thought of forever and always exempting Afghanistan from the same critical review. Now there is a difference in the way that in some African countries we have been engaged for 40–50 years – without having managed to get out of poverty. The exposure in Afghanistan is largely of relatively recent date.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2626	I have two questions for the representative, Höglund. I understand from the answers earlier in the reply chord shift that you want to prioritize resources to embassies ashore with many tourists. My question is, which embassies are what you don't want to prioritize, and which embassies are what you want to lay down, and what criteria underlie it? That was question 1. The second question concerns: in the post to Höglund, we heard a blind, almost dogmatic belief that free trade solves all problems, regardless of whether you have anything to deal with. Then is my simple, concrete question to the representative, Höglund: Can you refer to some countries that have managed to outstrip poverty by means of commodity exports and food exports? The well-known tiger economy of China has used political instruments to build strength, build power. Norway built power. Western Europe built power before we let go of free trade. Which countries have managed to build up through a blind belief in free trade and commodity exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2633	Blind belief in free trade – I want to refute it. You might as well return the question, which the representative might include in his post: What countries do you have by closing in and by acting completely protectively clearly? This isn't either one or the other. If you take China as an example, by entering the World Trade Organisation and by participating in global trade, millions of people in China have been able to get a better life, and it has given a boost to China. China is a good example of the fact that participating in global trade is something positive and not something negative. And that's the kind of activity we want other countries to take part in – looking beyond. We present in our 100-day programme some embassies that we want to look at in more detail. Take Sri Lanka as an example, where we have had a strong commitment to the peace negotiations. It's now over. We're not relevant there the same way. [[The President clubs.]] We think we can downplay our engagement here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2640	The President will remind you that speaking time is not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2644	It is no surprise that the Progress Party is cutting its aid budget. We've heard that before. I noticed that the representative of Höglund also called it a ritual exercise – that is interesting – and even in a budget where Norway grants more than ever before to itself. It is difficult to understand how the Progress Party can defend cutting 9 billion DKK in aid – 1.7 billion to Africa – when we are in the midst of a hunger disaster. It is also difficult to understand how the Progress Party can manage to use the misappropriation of assistance as an argument for cutting it. It seems that the Advance Party makes it perfect for the good enemy. I would like to read a little from the comments of the Advance Party in the vote on the Latin American aid, where they say: ‘These members believe that less restrictive abortion legislation in many of these countries could strengthen women’s sexual and reproductive rights while at the same time being cost-effective for national health budgets.’ I would like to ask the representative, Høglund, whether it is the policy of the Progress Party to push the beneficiary countries of Norwegian aid to introduce free abortion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2656	It's the criticism associated with this that's ritual. Countries will initially determine their own policies, but where Norway continues to provide state aid and finance, for example. health programmes, it is also natural to discuss issues such as abortion legislation. If we look at some countries in Latin America that have extremely conservative legislation in this area and there is no exception for women in relation to abortion, we believe it is a human rights issue to address with the country, almost regardless of whether we provide assistance, the relationship with the women who end up in a very difficult and demanding situation. We stand firmly on that point. With regard to the comments on cutting €9 billion, the EU has a target of achieving 0.5 pst. of GNI in 2010 and 0,7 pst. in 2015. The progress party is at 0.73 pst. I do not feel that the representative or others are talking about the EU in the way in which the Progress Party is referred to in terms of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2663	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2666	In these days, many eyes are turned against Scandinavia. The Copenhagen Climate Summit and tomorrow's Peace Prize distribution will contribute to the focus on two of the main foreign policy challenges we face: the fight against climate change and for peace and disarmament. In the context of the distribution of prices, a broad mobilisation of those who will express their expectations of Obama’s disarmament tanks and a high and clear memory of the obligations to be fulfilled is expected. But disarmament obligations do not only apply to peace winners and majorities. We have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to work continuously for disarmament and a world without nuclear weapons, for arms control and for political solutions to conflicts. A year ago, many of the world's leaders were gathered to sign the Convention against Class Weapons after the long and expedient efforts of civil society and several of my party and government colleagues. The Government Declaration sets out new and important objectives for the work on disarmament and peace, the assessment of NATO's first strategy, stricter legislation on arms exports and the international regulation of the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons and ammunition, concrete measures for a nuclear-free world. Peace, poverty reduction and sustainable development are interdependent. Today, a new arms race is being driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism should be won militarily. This stands in the way of solving poverty, food crises and climate issues, and that is precisely why the fight for disarmament and peace is part of the SV’s basic foundation. We are pleased that the Government is raising this topic high in the budget proposal. But disarmament does not happen primarily because governments, parties or experts take their own initiative. Olof Palme, the Swedish Prime Minister who worked for nuclear disarmament all his life, once said: ‘Dearmament can only be achieved by people in many countries expressing their opinion.’ The mobilization in the 1980s led Gorbachev and Reagan to sign a disarmament agreement. The ban on land mines and class weapons has been fought by a popular movement all over the world. The fight for disarmament and against nuclear weapons can only be won by the fact that many people express their opinion loudly and clearly, so that world leaders are forced to listen. A few days ago, a report on women's rights in Afghanistan came from Human Rights Watch. The women's liberation has been a central point of the argument when soldiers have been sent to Afghanistan, but the report states that eight years' presence of Western soldiers has not made life easier for Afghan women. The reason is conservative leaders who want to deny women fundamental rights, says the report. The aim of development policy is to change power structures, to give voices to the deaf – and especially to women. Priority must be given to women's rights and participation. Women in poor countries are at the bottom of the social path. 75 pst. Of the poorest on the globe, women. Women receive approx. 10 pst. of the total salary payments, while they carry out almost 70 pst. of all work on earth. Strengthening the position of women is central to poverty reduction and a prerequisite for sustainable development. Therefore, the Government has prioritised women's rights and equality both through political action and economics. And it's gratifying that there's a broad consensus on the importance of Cape. 168 Women and gender equality to contribute to the implementation of the action plan on women's rights and gender equality in development. SV has repeatedly argued that warfare is not the way to go to improve the situation in Afghanistan, as the report I referred to also shows, and we need to focus on what else can be done in the future. It has been pointed out in the past that we must bet on Parliament. There's a quarter of the representatives of women. We need to strengthen the position of women by getting them to the negotiating table, so that they too become real participants. And we have to make sure that the Department of Women also strengthens financially. It will be able to strengthen their case and provide a better guarantee that the money actually benefits women. The world's poverty is not random. The fight against poverty is a fight to change unfair international power structures. It is about seeing and understanding forces that inhibit and promote development, and designing a development policy that addresses the challenges that create poverty. It is a work where assistance is one of several instruments. Financial support can help to shift power and resources, thus strengthening people's ability to influence their own situation. It is important that the Government continues an offensive development policy and that the percentage of gross national income for development purposes needs to be increased beyond 1 pst. Finally, let me say a few words about the Copenhagen climate summit. Climate change is the greatest threat to humanity. It is currently uncertain whether countries will be able to agree on a legally binding climate agreement. Rich countries such as Norway have to take their historical responsibility for climate change by committing to large national emission reductions, while paying for emissions cuts in poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2698	On SV's foreign blog, the Vice President of SV, Audun Lysbakken, said on 1 September of this year: ‘The number of civilian deaths in Afghanistan is increasing and the confidence of the international forces is at a low level. Offensive warfare and more soldiers are not the solution to the problems. SV therefore considers that Norway should withdraw the forces from Afghanistan.» Can the representative Kvifte Andresen clarify this? Is SV for something they are really against, or does it no longer mean what the Lightbaking said on September 1st this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2708	Program formulations are something we all have. This is a program formulation that was adopted at SV's national meeting, and is a matter for which we worked through the election campaign. After the election, we have entered into government negotiations. We're in a government of three different parties that have a slightly different view of this. However, we are also discussing the situation in Afghanistan with the other government parties and have been given a formulation that goes into a possible discussion on withdrawal along the way. We're going to see the situation all the time. SV constantly emphasises that we do not believe that military power is the solution to the problem. It is political action that needs to be taken. But we are on the government statement that we are going to be in Afghanistan at the existing level, and, in cooperation with the Allies, discuss a possible right of retreat when it is time to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2713	Software formulations are something everyone has, but it's obvious that there's someone who has more than others! Last Wednesday, President Obama gave his speech explaining the new strategy and the new contribution to Afghanistan. The government, represented by Grete Faremo, agreed with the new strategy of sending 30,000 new soldiers and expecting about 30 000 new soldiers. 5 000 to 7 000 new soldiers from other NATO countries. The question is simply whether SV agrees with President Obama in his strategy and therefore also agrees with his own government in the strategy that it is important to send more soldiers to Afghanistan, and possibly the consequences it may have for Norway’s contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2722	SV has stated that we see both strengths and weaknesses in Obama's strategy. One of the weaknesses is sending 30,000 new soldiers. This is because we have repeatedly said that we do not believe in a military solution in Afghanistan. But at the same time Obama talks about more civil effort, which SV absolutely supports, and which we, together with the government parties, also want to contribute to, and contribute to. today. And we also welcome a possible discussion about an exit strategy so that we may eventually see a solution to the problems in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2727	I know that SV shares the Christian People's Party's commitment to the poorest developing countries. That's good. In these days’ climate focus, the focus may be on the big, heavy players such as India, China and Brazil, and the poorest countries, perhaps primarily in Africa, may become the losers in the fight for attention. I wonder if the representative, Mr Andresen, sees this danger, and if SV has any idea of what Norway can do to ensure that the poorest developing countries receive attention in the processes, and that poverty reduction remains the main objective of Norwegian development assistance in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2734	Of course, it is important to bet on the poorest countries. They need a promise of poverty. At the same time, we must take on board that one of the reasons for poverty is the major climate challenges. Therefore, it is also important to focus on good climate action in order to reduce poverty also for the most vulnerable. The aid budget that we are adopting now means that we take care of several different interests, not only help for the very weakest, but also support for communities that are on their way to building up, and shows that we are taking the climate challenges, health and education seriously. So SV is very pleased with the development budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2742	I want to raise a matter that the Norwegian peace movement has been concerned about, and where we also see that a change in civil service within us may open up new opportunities, namely civil peace forces. This is a matter for which the Left is busy, and which SV has fixed the program. We have put forward a very mild and cautious proposal today to get an opportunity study with the idea of creating civil peace troops. My question is how SV submits to our proposal, and if perhaps the government would also think it was exciting to get to such an investigation. We're going to want to turn it into a transmission proposal if the government can say something positive about getting such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2749	I have seen the proposal from the Left and I think it is an interesting proposal. The representative has also noticed that SV says something about civil peace forces in its programme, including in relation to the duty of protection, which we want to be general, and where it is possible to choose between serving in Defence and in a renewed community service aimed at important societal tasks. I can't say on behalf of all the government parties that we want to support this, but can bring on what I have now said: that SV thinks the proposal is interesting and very much likes to discuss it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2756	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2759	The broad popular movements have shaped a lot of our society. They have helped shape both our defence policy and, in particular, our aid and development policy. If you look first at our defence tradition, it is built on the will to defend – that it is the will to defend the people that is crucial to our defence. The fact that the defense has confidence in people most, and is based on people most, is crucial for the support the defense will receive, both morally and economically. But in order to ensure defence, you always have to change. For both security policy challenges and technological opportunities change. The defense has been through a major shift over several major periods of time - a transition that has been necessary for the defence to be able to solve the tasks we want within the limits of defence, for 2010 almost NOK 35 billion. The basis for our defence is the popular anchoring, the duty of protection and the first-time service. The quality of the defense depends entirely on the recruitment, and our initial service ensures a broad recruitment. International operations can never or will never be the core task of defence. The defence's core task is to secure our country and our neighbourhoods, and to ensure our sovereignty. The international operations are from our point of view also a contribution to ensuring our own security. Norwegian security is best ensured by contributing to peace, stability and favourable international development, thereby reducing the risk of crises, conflict spread, armed conflict and the spread of war. Just as our defence is based on a popular tradition, our aid and development policy has old and proud historical roots: from the counter-cultures that flourished against the powers of the 1800s to the solidarity of the working class. Historical movements continue to have a significant impact on Norwegian policy, and they have been crucial for supporting our strong commitment to development. It's all the thousands of burning souls around in associations, in congregations and all the other places that have been and are the basis of Norwegian development exposure. It's not the elite, not the big capital, it's people and the popular movements that have produced Norwegian development policy. The objective of foreign policy shall and must be to put Norwegian interests first. However, if this consideration is also primarily directed at development policy, I believe that the broad popular upsurge of Norwegian aid can be confused. And without popular outbursts, development policy no longer has any legitimacy. Development policy can make a great deal of sense in getting more integrated in foreign policy, making a total of more money available. But in my view, the main emphasis of Norwegian development policy and the key pillar of the effort must be needs-based. It is in our national interest to strengthen the UN. A small country such as Norway depends on clear international rules and the high legitimacy of the UN. The current climate summit in Copenhagen and the Rome food summit earlier this autumn show that the world is facing major challenges that could lead to more conflicts in the future. Fight for scarce energy resources, water shortages, that over one billion people have too little food; it is a fact that climate change will reinforce the problems we already have in food and water security. Fighting for resources provides the basis for conflict and instability. War and conflict contribute to poverty and human degradation. Strengthening the UN, the institution which has legitimacy through the Security Council to address conflicts, and which, through its other activities, can go along with development-creating measures, is crucial from the point of view of the Centre Party. Norway is among the largest contributors to the UN. Nevertheless, the centre party considers that further increases in contributions may be justified. As a small state, Norway has an additional need for international rules of play as a security against arbitrary use of power — rules of the game that protect the interests of actors and countries that themselves are not powerful. In addition to contributing financially, we believe it is in our own interest to contribute to strengthening UN operations also with Norwegian military contributions when we have room to prioritize resources for this. Our defense has strong support out there among people. There is widespread popular support for the use of funds for development, and support for a strong UN – a UN-led world order – is rooted in Norwegian tradition, in people and in the Government. The budget we are adopting today supports these pillars of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2790	The centre party opted for the Marine Base at Olavsværrung to be maintained, and a few days before the election, the Central Party's first candidate went out in Troms and said that the centre party in the negotiations would require the base to be maintained. It didn't work out, okay? That's not good, but that's what's going on in negotiations. Is this case lost to the Center Party? Has the Center Party now buried the matter, or will they continue to fight for the Olavs protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2797	The Soria Moria declaration has made some clear priorities. One of the clear priorities is to increase the presence of the Defence in the North, and one points in particular to the need for the Marine to have an increased presence in the North. The Soria Moria statement we have four years to implement and implement. Then we need to see what measures are needed to ensure that we are able to increase the presence of the Navy sufficiently in the northern regions. And then, of course, the support structures you have on land will also be part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2802	The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, talked a lot about the willingness to defend today's posts. He has previously done so in his rhetoric about the government's big effort at the Defence in the north, and also about expanded North Region bet. Former Coast Guard Chief Torstein Myhre, who is also a central partyman, has recently shown in an article that the only maritime base you have in North Norway, Olavsvern, which the representative Höglund was in. He points out that the only frigate we have is outside Somalia, and with few exceptions, the Marine's units are either in storage or at berth in Bergen. Myhre writes at the end of his article, by which the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, may obtain a copy of: ‘The fact that the Navy has been almost entirely absent in North Norway in 2009 should be a cross-thinking for many. The coastal state of Norway is open, perhaps it is time to ask questions as to whether there is any political will in the government to give a content to the alleged north-eastern action.’ [[...]] [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2814	Regardless of political will – speaking time should be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2817	It is, from the point of view of the Central Party, incredibly important that when we discuss the future development of defence and NATO's future strategy, we have a much greater focus on the neighbourhoods both in NATO and in Norwegian defence and security policy. In the Soria Moria Declaration, it is a very clear priority, and the main priority there is to increase sailing days and have a greater presence in the northern regions. We're very happy to have it included in the Soria Moria statement, and we're happy to contribute to it being put into practice. The support structures on land are being discussed on an ongoing basis, but the most important thing for us is the presence at sea and increasing the number of days sailing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2824	During the entire period of red-green government, it has been possible to move money in budgetary procedures in order to get an even better profile of not least the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. It has not been possible this time, despite the fact that good proposals have been made, which I am sure the representative of Battle Violence Vedum has the sense of: strengthening agricultural aid, strengthening training aid, strengthening health efforts, to name someone. I suppose the reason why this for the first time since the red-green government came, has not been possible this year, is not the fact that the representative Battle Violence Vedum has joined the committee. But can the representative give me another explanation as to why it has been quite impossible – excuse me, President – to move on a single penny?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2832	The President is pleased that the representative himself deplored the expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2835	This is because representatives of the three red-green parties in the Committee have not wanted to move on funds – so simple and so difficult. If the three parties together had wanted to move on funds, I'm sure we would have gotten it. We're going to work now for four years in this committee. In some cases, I am absolutely sure that we want to move funds in relation to the conclusions of the Government, in other matters we are satisfied. In this round we wanted to continue with the draft budget that was before us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2840	We took note of the admirable tribute of the representative, Mr Vedum, to the Norwegian defence – not least to the duty of protection – and appreciated it. Now, since the budget was released in October, there have been a number of concerns from military experts, from organisations both in and around the Defence and, not least, from experienced military leaders, and they are not just concerned, but they claim that the present draft budget simply means a reduction in the capacity of the Norwegian defence. Then is my question to the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum: Are all these errors?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2847	There are always more views on the same issue, and that is why we have hearings, so we have an open democratic debate to get more views. It's very important that someone takes seriously the concerns that come from people who work in the defense, and from people who have a burning commitment to the defense. I myself have been active in some of the defence organisations in the past and know what a great heart many have for the Norwegian defence. So, of course, we're going to take that very seriously. Then it has been absolutely necessary for the Norwegian defense to undergo a demanding and great transformation in order to be able to meet a new time, and major changes are painful. In the long-term plan, we have announced that in 2012 we will be able to balance, and I think it is absolutely essential that we now have a balanced development. Then we'll have to discuss the future structuring and dimensioning of the Defense once we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2854	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2857	During the Copenhagen climate negotiations, media focusses mainly on the fight against major countries, not least between industrialised countries in the West and the large growth economies in the south, such as China, India and Brazil. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Norway fights to satisfy those who are in the shadow of the negotiations but who are hardest hit by climate change that they lack the capacity to deal with. These are the poorest developing countries. That's why these developing countries the Christian People's Party chose to prioritise more strongly when we designed our alternative to the government budget in the autumn. The Government shall be commended for increasing the aid budget and for following up on several important developments from the Storting. But there are also weaknesses in the government's development budget. Let me point to three of them: Firstly, expenditure on refugees in Norway and climate/forestry projects together with approx. 300 million. D more than the overall framework of the assistance budget next year. So it's going to be 300 million. to regular development assistance in poor countries. That is why the Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget to increase the aid framework accordingly. Secondly, the government is not following the unanimous desire of the Storting to increase the share of education aid. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed more assistance for education. Thirdly, the government's budget is too weak on climate change adaptation in poor developing countries, i.e. measures to increase their capacity to deal with climate change that they cannot avoid. In order to remedy this, the Christian People's Party has proposed significantly more for climate adaptation, among others. in East Africa and Bangladesh. At the same time, we are strengthening efforts to improve climate change adaptation and more robust food production. The Christian People's Party's budget option, in our view, would give the foreign budget a clearly better device, but I record that there was no desire in any of the government parties for such a better device. Within the framework recently adopted by the Stortinget for the external budget, the Christian People's Party in the committee position proposes a number of redeployments to improve development cooperation. The right is with us on this proposal. We will strengthen measures for climate adaptation, education, food safety and agriculture as well as vital vaccine work through GAVI. In addition, we give real support to voluntary organisations, and we strengthen poverty orientation in the country elections. In the case of the defence budget, the long-term defence plan must be followed up. Calculations show that 2010 will be a very tight year. For the Army, it must be tough whether one will in practice achieve the small real improvement required by the Government in the budget proposal. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have brought with us the entire committee on parts of our remark about the need for better follow-up of veterans with sensitised after international operations. The majority of the Committee supports the desire to increase the appropriations allocated to the SIOPS Veterinary Organisation in order to enable it to continue its important work. Those who have put their own lives at risk for Norway in international operations deserve society to set up for them, even after the end of their service. I would also like to make some comments on the matter concerning changes to the 2009 budget. The Christian People's Party has taken an initiative to donate more than 10 pst. of Norway’s purchased vaccines against swine flu to poor developing countries. Professional assessments may indicate that we have gone to the acquisition of far more than we need in Norway. The World Health Organisation has requested that profits be made here. We have received a response from the Ministry of Health and Health to a letter that had not been answered when the Committee's suspension was presented. In that reply it states that ‘there may be a basis for issuing multiple vaccine doses and antivirals’, i.e. Tamiflu and Relenza, to poorer land. That means that there is a clear basis for the particular comment that the Christian People's Party has in the vote on changes to the 2009 budget, where we ask the Government to come back to the Stortinge with a matter of donating more than what we are invited to do today. I assume that this will be followed up by the Government as soon as it is professionally sound and you have the overview you need to promote a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2890	Assistance is a heart issue for the Christian People's Party, and we are in a situation where the Advance Party cuts in the 2010 budget by 8-9 billion kroner. The right is also cut compared to the government parties, while the Christian People's Party – because it is a heart issue, an important matter – has chosen to give priority to increasing the aid budget in relation to the government parties. No later than today, a press release from the Christian People's Party that I got caught up with via Twitter said that it was totally unthinkable to cooperate with the Advance Party in government, and that those who did not understand why had not attended the Sunday school badly. I went to Sunday school, but I still want to ask the Christian People's Party: Say in their own words, how far is it, not only in crowns – for we know that – but also in ideological convergence between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party's aid policy? Can you describe it as the difference in heaven and hell?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2899	I thank you for the invitation to refresh both my own and – I understand – Laila Gustavsen's childhood lessons. Rather, let me move this back to the big room and the political space, where we are now, and note that there is a sea of difference between the development policy that the Progress Party is presenting in the vote, and propose through cut-off to DKK 10 billion in the next year's aid budget, and the Christian People's Party policy. We are very pleased that, in our arrangement of the framework adopted by the Stortinget for the aid budget, we have received support from the Right. We also have the experience that cooperation with the Right in Government improves the Right in terms of aid policy. On the other hand, we have seen few signs of such approaches from the Progress Party, and that is not in this position either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2906	There are many in Stortinget who are a little concerned that our comments are a little bit too little read, so I could imagine reading the comment of the Christian People's Party in the budget – at least part of it: ‘It is after this majority’ — where the Christian People’s Party is involved — ‘considers it important that a future agreement adequately takes account of existing free trade agreements and facilitates the conclusion of the Doha negotiations’. What is said, and what is said in this comment here, is that trade is more important than climate. When I sat and prepared myself for this debate yesterday, and read this comment, I thought: Does the Christian People's Party mean this, or was it a mistake that you went into that remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2916	I believe that the representative of Battle Violence Vedum knows the Christian People's Party's priorities very well and knows that the red thread, or the yellow thread – I guess I say – throughout this setting by the Christian People's Party is to give priority to the poor first. It's about trade, it's a line we've been on for many years, and it's also about climate negotiations. But it is not a point that when we negotiate climate, it should break as far as possible the efforts of all of us; getting a freer world trade, which is also important for the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2922	I noticed that the representative Højbrätten described it as a sea of difference if one is to compare the aid policy of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. Now the Advance Party's 2010 aid budget proposal amounts to DKK 18.4 billion. The last budget adopted by the Bondevik II government was NOK 16.8 billion. Is this sea of difference between the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party even greater between the Christian People's Party and the Bondevik II Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2929	This is a game of numbers, and it knows an experienced politician like Myhre. What the Progress Party is doing is to reduce sharply the level of efforts made by Norway today. The Progress Party will reduce efforts towards the most vulnerable. The most important feature of the Progress Party is the effort towards the poorest areas in the world, namely Africa. I can't describe it as anything but a radical change in the course of the Christian People's Party, both in the Bondevik government and here in the Stortinget, and which fortunately changing governments have stood for, but to which the Advance Party has always been opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2936	First, I want to commend the representative of the Højbräten and the Christian People's Party for their great commitment to assistance. That means a lot to the debate in Norway, and we in the Labour Party are very happy about it. I just want to say it. Then I'm going to have to go elegantly or eulegantly to the defense and defense budget. The Christian People's Party has, in many comments in its position on the defence budget, joined forces with the Right and the Advance Party. Now it is the case that both the Advance Party and the Right have proposed to increase the scope of defence, while the Christian People's Party has not. Those comments are partly quite critical. I wonder, how has the Christian People's Party intended to follow up the criticisms they come with? What changes should they make when they have no more crowns to use than the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2943	As I stated in my post, we are concerned about the tightness of the defence budget. The assumptions contained in the long-term plan shall be consistent with the proposal submitted by the Government for 2010. That is why we are involved in the critical comments on the level of ambition. At the same time, we assume that the Government intends to follow this up. That means that from our side we're going to follow this with a critical look. If we get to a development in Defence – as, among other things, depends on the degree of efficiency – as the Government intends, we will be satisfied with it. If you don't do that, the consequence from our point of view is that we have to propose increased appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2951	Unfortunately, the left is not represented in the Foreign and Defence Committee. However, we will take the opportunity to add some more general comments to the budget for next year in these areas. I want to start with foreign policy. The starting point for the Left's foreign policy is the social liberal objective of increased freedom for all, regardless of geographical origin. That objective is best achieved by strengthening and further developing international institutions promoting both human rights, democracy, the market economy, the environment and respect for international law and law. It is a fact that globalisation and a healthy market economy have lifted more people out of poverty in recent decades than ever before in world history. However, about a billion people have little or no benefit from globalisation. Some even become poorer and marginalized. For Norway, which is one of the richest countries in the world, I believe it is an obligation to contribute our share to building poor countries. It is positive that the Government maintains a high economic level of the aid effort. It has Left's support. But at the same time, let me stress that it is very important to maintain a high quality of assistance. We must be effective and present concrete results in aid policy if we are to maintain a broad political upturn in relatively high appropriations in the future. Therefore, the Left considers that new approaches and reinforced methods for evaluation and quality assurance of assistance are needed. In this respect, let me also make it clear that there are legitimate demands made on the recipient country for democracy and respect for fundamental human rights in connection with Norwegian aid. In the course of this, I would like to stress how important it is for Norway to discharge both its legal and moral obligations towards people on the run. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has previously reported a great need to settle quota refugees, and the UN has encouraged rich countries to receive more. The left considers that Norway is able to accept more transfer refugees than the Government provides, and proposes in our alternative state budget to increase the quota by 500 – from 1200 to 1700 – during 2010. Tomorrow, Obama will come and receive the Peace Prize in Oslo City Hall. One of the elements highlighted in the justification for the award of the Obama Prize is international diplomacy and interpersonal cooperation. In this regard, I would like to point out the need for better contact between the Western world and the Muslim world. The left has been committed to strengthening this contact — between individuals, non-governmental organisations, political parties, businesses and researchers. In the past, the Left has proposed to establish its own exchange and cooperation programme between Muslim countries and Norwegian non-governmental organisations, including in particular children’s and youth organisations and political parties. In this regard, I would like to say a few words about Koran Schools. The revelations we've been given through the media lately have been quite shocking. I note that in the setting the red-green batches decide that the pilot project will be ‘revisited, in the light of its intentions, implementation and experience, before considering any continuation’. I think that is too weak a wording. We agree with the Right and Christian People's Party that it is not clear, and that such support should not be implemented, no matter how that control and evaluation is carried out. In more domestic areas, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about Iceland, for which we have submitted a proposal. Here, in our opinion, the red-green government has not done enough. The Left therefore believes that the Government should enter into dialogue with the Icelandic authorities as soon as possible and then come to Stortinget with a separate case on how we can counteract the negative trend. Then it's also the way the Left supports the overall plan of the Defense. NATO and transatlantic cooperation shall remain cornerstones of Norwegian security policy, while further developing defence policy cooperation in the Nordic region and with the EU. As part of our commitments, the Left is behind the main elements of Obama's Afghanistan strategy, searing whether we are critical of his timing when American forces are going out. In this respect, I would also like to say that we are committed to supporting all the soldiers who sacrifice something and who make efforts for the community through service abroad. We want to say, like other debaters here, that it is important to support that work. We have two proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. One goes on ‘Sivile Peace Forces’. I hope the Minister of Defence will find it possible to express some positive ideas about the possibility – we have formulated it as weakly as ‘an opportunity study’ – of looking at ‘Sivile Peace Forces’, where we imagine a model as Germany has and as they have managed to develop in a good way. With this, I'm going to deal with the two proposals. I hope we have the opportunity to turn one into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2979	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2984	It concerns the Left's proposal to engage in dialogue with Icelandic authorities and to launch further action. The representative said that she thought Norway had not done enough. Norway has set up a significant loan amount, and Iceland is in dialogue with the IMF. They have applied for membership of the EU to obtain a currency that can withstand the next wind, but they have not yet established this Icesave agreement. It is now before Parliament over there. Could the representative say a little bit more about what she's thinking about? Is she thinking that Norway should go into — almost — the second stage of the IMF, and help, without presupposing that Iceland must also fulfil its international obligations? I think that's the only way they can get out of this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2991	There are quite strong demands made by the IMF. However, the agreement reached with the United Kingdom and the Netherlands on small-scale savings is seen by many in the Icelandic population as a very unfair agreement. 85 pst. – in the last poll – said no to that agreement. It is a great pressure on the Icelandic Parliament. The problem is that it is perceived in Iceland that all Norwegian money is ‘locked’ in all kinds of other international agreements. Perhaps not so much the demands of the IMF, but the demands made by England and the Netherlands are seen as unreasonable that Norway is hiding its money behind, from an Icelandic point of view. We have close contact and close cooperation with our sister parties, which have been more positive to an EU membership for Iceland than the Norwegian Left has been, and they express great frustration that this is so closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e2996	Unfortunately, our former centermate is not on the Foreign Affairs Committee, so we need to use the opportunity to hear a little bit more about what they think on different issues. There's really not a lot of distinctions when you read the setting. But one of the divisions is the view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It's a little surprising to read the very one-sided position of your former government comrades in relation to just looking with the eyes of Israel and not seeing with the Palestinians' eyes what has happened there in the last year. It was then earlier in the debate that Right wants to reduce aid to the Palestinian self-government authorities and the Palestinian territories. Does the Left support the assessment of its former government parties to step down assistance in the Palestinian territories, as the Right does, and the very one-sided approach of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3001	The President would point out that the representative, Mr Vedum, is such an experienced representative that he ought to know that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3005	The left was the first party in Stortinget that said that the sail of a party that we did not think was the best outcome of the elections in the Palestinian territories, won, it was important that we had contact. Therefore, we supported the Government when it chose to engage in dialogue with Hamas. We think it's important. We will probably also maintain the level of support for the Palestinian territories. We probably have a very balanced relationship with the Middle East, and we think it's pretty important that you actually go in and support what's being chosen by the people, sail if that's what we don't like. The problem in communication with the entire Arab world is that we are now operating with double standards – where we support those we like, and not those we don't like, sail for many of those we like, have been misinformed in relation to the moral standards we have around democracy and transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3010	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3013	Let me start with Svalbard, who is also up for discussion today. I would like to say very briefly, on behalf of the Government and the Minister of Justice, that the northern regions are the main strategic area of the Government. Therefore, continuing to bet on Svalbard is of great importance – and marks our presence in the north. I am pleased to see that the treatment of the notification confirmed a broad political agreement on Norwegian Svalbard policy. It's about fixed and stowed course in the management of Svalbard, and history has shown us that such management, according to these objectives, has been successful. Predictability and continuity of the management of the archipelago are key. As Stortinget will remember, there are three main points in the Svalbard message: Svalbard as one of the world’s best managed wilderness areas – the relationship with tourism and other travel. The role of Svalbard as a platform for Norwegian and international research, knowledge and education. A robust presence on Svalbard – with particular attention to the future prospects of the coal industry. In addition to these main challenges in the Communication, the Government carries out a careful review of the legislative situation of the archipelago, as requested by the National Audit Office in its management audit of Svalbard in 2007. In view of the activity increase that has taken place on Svalbard, as described in the Communication, the Government proposes to strengthen the Svalbard budget for 2010 by 10.3 million. kr. We are pleased that there is broad support for this. It is important that there is good knowledge, and that there is a consistent message from Norwegian authorities' environments, sizes and individual representatives on that matter. With regard to the suspension of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, there is a lot to be pleased about there. I would like to commend the chairman of the committee and the committee for having written good joint comments. This is the general comment that we should concentrate and care for the resources where we have interests and where we can make a difference at the same time. It was the essence of St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, which is now well repeated. In a wide range of joint comments, we are made clear that there is broad consensus on the main features of foreign policy. I note that the Committee follows the Government in that the northern regions are our main strategic area, further Afghanistan, Europe policy, human rights, cooperation with Russia and – with the exception of the Progress Party – the UN track and active Norwegian policy in the Middle East. Let me thank the Committee for many good common clarifications and emphasis. In addition to a significant common thought goods, it is this year that in previous years the Progress Party is marking an alternative course in a number of areas. They should be in favour of that in themselves, because it is clear in the policy that I believe the debate is well off. It is, in particular, the question of a broader global responsibility that the party takes its own path. It is at least well recognizable, but nevertheless sad in a world where the ability to take responsibility over itself just becomes more important. This was the essence of St.meld. No 15, and I notice that the Progress Party is following up its political message through the party's proposals for money use. The pattern is the same this year as it was in previous years: the Progress Party cuts deep into our international commitment, so deep that in a wide range of areas it will be about breaking international Norwegian commitments. To take just one example, over 70 pst. assistance to Africa is agreed. The proposal of the Progress Party for a reduction of 60 p.m. This would mean that Norway would have to break concluded agreements. That's the way it is in areas by area. Another example is climate, which is once again contractual with a number of countries, and where it was supposed to be so that Norway would sign up shortly after Copenhagen with a message about cut to the environment and sustainable development with 50 pst. It would affect climate adaptation, clean energy, carbon capture and storage, etc. Then I'll clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The representative, Høglund, will cover a savings of 160 million. kr on operating in the U.D. by reducing for the embassy in Colombo. He said this in an answer to the representative, Mr Vedum. He'd have to do that, but it's on another budget line. Where he wants to cut by NOK 160 million is for insiders in the 02 area, i.e. Russia, Europe and the United States. At the same time, the Progress Party will have more effective assistance for the Nordics abroad, including: that the embassies which are in the midst of the north shall have what is necessary. But I've been in the U.D. long enough to know that well over 90 pst. of the operating expenditure in the so-called 02 area is fixed expenditure, tied to employees and stations. So we're not talking about shutting down a few, but several dozen stations in the 02 area, about that accounting going up. And then we talk about doing deep cuts in traditional tasks – in Europe, the transatlantic conditions, the northern regions, etc. I also have to say that there is a pattern at the Progress Party, but at the same time it is a little wingy compared to previous years. Last year, the Progress Party would cut support for the Palestinian Refugee Relief Organization, UNRWA, by 50 p.m., although the representative, after visiting Gaza, said it would be bad news for the Palestinians. Now they're proposing a cut of 30 pst. Last year they wanted to cut the contribution to UN organizations by 75 pst, which would hit the WHO in the middle of the influenza epidemic. Now the party is talking about 50 pst cuts. So it's going the right way -- you could say -- but it's still a long way left, and it's a clear break. As far as the Middle East is concerned, I note broad support for Norway's commitment. It's important to have it in my back, but I'm bumping over the representative Eriksen Soreide when she argues for a one-third cut to the Middle East from Norway. You can argue that by using the money somewhere else, and I respect those who prioritize by saying that something is more important than anything else, even though I disagree with her here. The representative says that the Palestinian authorities are unable to accept the aid, and she asks questions about it because they do not have a national audit. Then I can tell that just before this meeting, I had a conversation with the United States Middle East delegation, Mitchell, who supports the message that Norway has, that it is important to give to the Palestinian self-government authorities – especially now, under current Prime Minister Fayad, who has great confidence. The U.S. goes to Congress exceptionally and asks for support to the Palestinian self-government agencies now – a very high amount, and an even higher amount to next year. That's why it's a strange argument to say that we have to cut because the Palestinians are not able to use the money properly. Just this Prime Minister is largely able to use the money properly, and we should support him. So the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee had a comment that the Minister of Development will certainly comment on, but I will do so too. She says that it is almost not allowed to discuss assistance in Norway. Well, then they must have come back to the old concept of self-imposed restriction, because if there is anything the Minister for Development and I have invited to, there is a debate on assistance, critical debate on aid, critical oversight by political parties, non-governmental organisations, the National Audit Office, international experts and others. And if we discover that we can do things a smarter way, we'll of course do it. But we also have the right to participate in this debate, so when we go out and defend the scheme we think works well, then it's not to prevent debate – it's actually to argue for what we think is right. To the representative of the Højbråten I would say: Yes, there is a good and important point with the vaccines. We've already given 10 pst., along with the United States and some other countries. Now, in the weeks that are going to be the opportunity to sum up how much of the items we bought that have been used. It is highly likely that there will be surplus stocks, and it will be natural for the Government to inform the Storting about how we proceed with it, and the solidarity perspective will then be important. So I want to answer the question to Skei Grande about Koran Schools, and I just want to repeat what I have said: this project is now over. We have done a thorough summary, including: as a result of questions from Stortinget. A continuation of the intentions of that project, which I also note that the large majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs agrees, namely to be able to give more primary education to more, especially girls in Pakistan, I believe is a legitimate goal to pursue. How we do that, we get to discuss when we summarize the experience of this project, which was conceived and planned under the previous government, initiated by this government. I believe that it has full aid control objectives, but it is not possible to undermine the fact that giving support to this kind of part of a warring country such as Pakistan poses a risk. If we don't take any risks in these contexts, it's going to be difficult to achieve the goals. But it's a balance that I'm open to discussing with the Stortinget. And given the interest of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I will focus on maintaining close contact with the Foreign Affairs Committee as well as on the possible continuation of the intentions of that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3051	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3054	I'm going to be allowed to come back a little later to the fact that the red-green government also has experience with winging in politics, it's not only one party. But I wanted to challenge the Foreign Minister in an area where we largely agree. It is the relationship with Russia, which affects us in very many areas, and where cooperation is wide and ever better. I think it can be even wider, both wider and better – and closer. To achieve that, and to see the full breadth, all the areas in which we cooperate, it could not be useful to have a strategy for – drawing up a vision for – how to get to the networks and just the good cooperation we want?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3061	This is a positive proposal and I understand the intention of the representative, Mr Höglund. I am also pleased that there is a broad collection in the Storting on our Russia policy. When I'm a little detained, it's because I'm very careful to start a work that requires a lot of administrative resources, where we have the answers in advance. It's about how we house scarce resources, about cutting operating in the U.D. The Minister of Development and I have started that kind of work in China, and in India, because there was a need to do a basic job to get up and stand. We are now up to those degrees with Russia – through our North Sea cooperation, through our Russia projects, the Barents Secretariat, nuclear plans, business and energy dialogues – that we have the overview. I'm going to take this back to the U.D. and evaluate it, and maybe we'll find a form that's a little bit different than making strategies, as we've done for other major areas. But I am therefore careful to start a work that will require a lot of administrative resources, without bringing policy new quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3068	The Progress Party is concerned that the Human Rights Watch report tells us that women in Afghanistan have gotten worse in the years since 2005. According to Human Rights Watch, women are thrown into prison if they try to escape home because of violent men, rapists are pardoned, and women dare not contact the police, because they are afraid to be attacked. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will the Foreign Minister ensure that the resources we spend on civil society do not help to keep women down in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3075	I can give a very clear answer to that – Norway will do everything we can to ensure that our contribution to civil development in Afghanistan does not help to keep women down. We're going to put a lot of emphasis on that. The position of women, 'gender' questions, is central to our expectations of the Afghan government, and the statements we have made, including in my talks with Afghan leaders in November. I think the picture is mixed. I've read the Human Rights Watch report, which is alarming. At the same time, we see that millions of girls come to school, come into higher education, get better health services. So it's a mixed image. But the fact that it's mixed means that something is positive and that something is very negative, and we have to keep focus on that. At the same time, I think we are going to steel ourselves and recognise that in Afghanistan's further development – where they take control of their own country and develop a society based on their own majority – we are going to see solutions that are contrary to many of our values. This does not mean that we agree with it, but that we must realistically expect that there may be more such issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3082	All agree more or less on the importance of coordinating efforts in Afghanistan. There are now signs that there are initiatives in NATO for ISAF to take a clearer civil role, including: establishing a civil structure in ISAF. My question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is aware of those initiatives, and what position Norway will take in relation to them, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3089	I know those initiatives, and there is now an intense debate on coordination in Afghanistan. It began around Obama's speech, was very present at the NATO meeting last week and moving forward to the London Conference. Norway is going to take an active part in it. I am in favour of ISAF having a greater capacity to see civil relations, among others. a greater degree of ability to see correlations between PRT efforts. Today, there are poor mechanisms for exchanging learning experience between PRTs — what works and what does not work. What does not work may well be so useful to divide between countries. Nevertheless, it shall not cross the central mandate of the United Nations as coordinator of civil assistance in Afghanistan. But that ISAF has the ability to see both sides of what they're doing under an ISAF hat, I think we're earned. That is why we need a stronger coordination mechanism, where all the key players, including, of course, ISAF, are also given closer coordination on civil aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3096	I share the wish of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a nuanced aid debate, an aid debate I hope will, as far as possible, include the two Councils as well, although we have recently seen a little too many examples of debate editorials wanting to debate, but that none of the Councils can or will participate. Let me just say that it is important that this debate is a debate on how to get the most out of the resources Norway uses, that we get a debate where those who have a different device are actually being taken into account that you want more out of the resources you use. Of course, because we give priority to some areas, there will be a de-priority of some other areas. It means once again, in short, not that you are negative to aid, but that you actually want to help people out of poverty. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not see that such a priority must be given to the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3106	I urge myself to speak on behalf of the Minister for Development and myself: Call us early and late, and we will meet up where it will be for debate. I do not remember one debate I have been invited to on aid, to which I have said no because I could not. Then it had to be a very serious meeting collision. So this is not about a lack of will. Then I will acknowledge that it is very fruitful to have an aid policy debate with the representative Gitmark and the right party. There are some different priorities, but largely a willingness to be present in this debate. There are two types of posts we hear. One is about the device of the aid, a little at level, we can discuss that, among other things. Bring with you Right. Then there's another phalanc in the aid debate that comes in and says they're against aid, and argues to get the aid radically down. There are two different schools. I would like to take the debate with both schools, but I would strongly reject the fact that there has been any attempt not to participate in that debate, on the contrary. When it comes to where it's supposed to be, just call us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3113	The type of response that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now notifying, he has given the Committee on In-depth Questions about the Koran Schools. I would like to take this opportunity to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being willing to take over the critical information that has emerged, and, as I can see, has adjusted the course in relation to it. But I want to confirm that the Christian People's Party for its part is committed to continuing to support education for the poorest children in Pakistan. My question is about vaccines. A majority of the Committee asks the Government to return to the Stortinget, not with information, but with a proposal to give away more, if there is a professional basis for doing so. I would like the Foreign Minister to confirm that there will be such a proposal if the professional authorities see that the 9.4 million doses we have ordered are a few million too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3120	I think the representative of Højbrätten knows that a government council is a very careful thing to say on the constitutional responsibility of another state council, and so it's my colleague the health minister who bought the vaccines, so I don't want to stand here and distribute them on her behalf, even if it's tempting. We've given away 10 pst. of them in a greater international effort. As the representative, Højbräten, says, the professional authorities must assess it. They have been purchased for the Nordics, so it has to be assessed whether the Norwegians have used their own, and there I know there is a debate going on. One thing is that people have let themselves be vaccinated, but there is a debate going on about whether there may be mutations that make you hold back reserves. I will not conclude on that either. But I would assume that it is reasonable, if there are vaccines again, and the assessments have been made, that Norway, in tradition with the line we have had, is considering sharing with poorer countries, which do not have the opportunity to make such purchases as we have done. When and if that happens, it's natural to come back to the Storting, give the interest that's here, and orient it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3127	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3130	Let me start by joining the Foreign Minister's parole: Just call, we'll make a speech. Because there is something both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I have done, it is encouraging an aid debate. I said once that if the Progress Party had not existed, the party had to be invented, because we just need a critical search light for Norwegian assistance. We invited Moyo, perhaps Africa's leading aid critics, to Norway to get the debate, and we've both traveled around the country and the beach and participated in large and small meetings in this area. We are participating in all the radio and television debates that someone had to be interested in inviting us to, and we have put on the table two big messages, which are a whole whole, where you see Norwegian foreign and development policy in a context. It's never been done by any government before – we've done it. So stop the debate that we don't have a debate, but create the debate, and let's go into the debate. The second is the debate that it's most important how we spend the money, and not how much we give. It is also quite obvious, and it applies in all areas of life, whether it be defence, road or municipalities. It's always the most important thing that we spend the money we have right. It's more important than getting more. But the strange thing is that it looks like that assistance is in a special position, for the same right-wing representatives who first said that the most important thing is how we spend the money, and not what we give, immediately jumped over to the Ministry of Defence, where there was how much we gave, which was important. The strange thing is that if you think that what you are doing in the area of aid is right – the Progress Party stands for significant assistance, the Right stands for a very high level of assistance in the international context – it is quite obvious that more is done if you have more money. That's the way it is in all other areas. If you have good policies, you get to do more with more money. Of course, this is the case in the area of aid. So let's not use this as an argument to get the aid down. It's most important how we spend the money, but the more money we have, the better we use it if we have a good policy. So the government has put forward a development policy that focuses on three k's. In various ways, they have also emerged in the debate here. The first is conflict. There is broad support in the UK for the Norwegian civil effort in Afghanistan. I wish we could receive similar support from the Norwegian Civil Service in Sudan. Let's never forget that it was in Sudan bin Laden before he moved to Afghanistan. It is the two major conflicts – one rotating around the Congo and the major seas, and the other rotating around Sudan – that are today the main factors that keep Africa in poverty. With regard to those countries that have had peace and have had it over time, many of them have great economic success, but those who are in these conflict areas or are sucked into them have great problems. So contributing to conflict resolution in Sudan is incredibly important. It is a security issue for Norway and the world, and we should have the same broad connection to what we have to the engagement in Afghanistan. So climate has been clearly emerging as an important development policy issue. Dagfinn Højbråten raised the question of climate adaptation. I'm glad. I agree that the budget now presented has not taken sufficient account of the role of climate adaptation in aid. That's because we haven't thought far enough in this area. We have to do a lot more, and we're going to make Norway a leading country in climate-related assistance. It is both about seeing everything we do from a climate perspective, and about seeing what specific measures need to be taken because of climate change. Here, there are also boundaries between what is natural to do within the aid budget and what is natural to do outside the aid budget. But we're going to come back to this, far and wide, and it's good, great, that the Storting is taking it up. In the case of capital, which is the third large area, let me remind you that one of the main reasons for, among other things. operating assistance in Vietnam and Latin America, on which the Right will now go down, is just connected to the two k climate and capital. We operate climate-oriented assistance in Latin America, and both in Vietnam and Latin America, we provide assistance related to how we get the capital flows correctly. These are key areas of Norwegian business, a high potential for industrial investment in these areas, and all of this can be facilitated by assistance. It's a little strange to me that the Right, who has such a long tradition as a private sector party, doesn't see the positive possibilities in this field of development as well. Let me end by saying that the Progress Party has a couple of proposals that are well worth taking along. One is to think more about what we're doing in the United Nations, and how we can make better use of that money. I have taken the initiative to do this together with the Swedes. I will meet my Swedish colleague just over the New Year to see how Norway and Sweden, which are two of the largest contributors of the United Nations system – Norway alone is the third largest contributor to the United Nations development and humanitarian programmes – can together have more influence on the better functioning of UN organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3145	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3148	We should like to contribute to creating the debate. On the Online Newspaper today, we could read that Uganda is appreciating the death penalty for homosexuals. And not only that – family and friends who do not report homosexuals are to be thrown into prison. The same shall apply to homeowners and government officials who are not informed that they have become aware that someone is gay. Norway contributes 230 million. kr to Uganda. This is a clear violation of human rights, so I am going to ask: will the Minister for Aid do something if this bill goes through in Uganda?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3157	The President then gives the floor to Minister for Development Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3163	Let me first say that I think it is very gratifying to see in this debate how the Progress Party shows a great commitment to women's right to abortion and to gay rights. I'm not going to say like triumphantly that these are areas where the red-greens have a longer story to be tough than the Progress Party, but it's great that we have a total staggering behind so important questions. And, of course, Norway would protest if Uganda were to impose the death penalty for homophobics. We're against the death penalty everywhere. It is essential in our dialogue with the United States, with China and with all the countries that have it. The death penalty for homophilia would be utterly insurmountable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3168	For example, the Minister for Development was ready when he said the following to the evening post on 14 April last year: ‘Norway has been naive and our assistance has helped to make corruption possible in Africa.’ Norway and Tanzania are now negotiating how much Tanzania will pay back to Norway as a result of the detected corruption in a Norwegian-supported environmental and natural resource programme in the country. At the same time, government plans to spend up to 500 million. kr in Tanzania through the forest plot. Norway’s ambassador to the country stresses that the corruption case will not have any consequences for the planned forest activity, despite, among other things, Interpol warns against crime and corruption related to such projects. Is it not precisely this type of project that Norway should stay away from and that the Council of State aimed at the time he characterised Norwegian development aid as naive?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3180	I am convinced that we have for far too long gleaned over corruption in aid and in many other areas of society as well. For a long time it was even tax exemptions in Norway that Norwegian businesses could bribe in other countries — an entirely unacceptable practice that everyone today would distance themselves from. As a nation, Norway has been naive in this area. That is why the red-green government also came in and passed the course significantly in this area. We have launched a series of measures to ensure against corruption in aid – alert service, a separate central control unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The corruption issues the representative is talking about are from the periods of previous governments, without me criticising them for it, but we are an international spearhead in the fight against corruption. But it is also the case that the poorest countries are the most corrupt, because poverty does not get newspapers and therefore not active media, they do not get the civil society we have with us, and they do not get the resources through a broad middle class to institutions such as Ecocrim, national audit, etc., that fight corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3190	Just an obvious misunderstanding first: when the Right Cuts Totally in the bilateral aid to Latin America, the climate and forest activity are still at stake. There's something on the right to the highest degree that shares with the Government and wants to develop further. So over to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech, namely the importance of prioritising efforts, and Norway’s priority. This does not happen within the framework of assistance. Norway is currently providing assistance to around 100 different countries, indirectly and directly. It's over 50 pst. of all countries present. Does the Minister of Development not see that there may also be a need for priority in the number of countries and the number of themes, and that it can actually increase the achievement of the objectives, increase competence, by limiting Norway's ability to sell financial resources, and not least make the evaluation work considerably better and easier?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3202	We have a greater concentration of assistance now than we had under the previous government, without me wanting to make it a significant point. I've gone into this to see what it would actually mean to concentrate on aid for fewer countries. The problem with that is that it comes very in contrast to what the Great One also asks for, namely more efforts through civil society. If we were to cut off all the countries to which Norway gives little money, it would mean cutting support for small mission organisations, small organisations for disabled people, small environmental organisations, i.e. the many important civil society actors that have small programmes here and there. Of course, we can cut them and certainly also reduce the number of countries to which Norway provides assistance, with a 30–40. It won't be a big amount, but it will weaken many important things, things that the Storting also thinks it's very important that we do. Instead, we have chosen to focus on some issues for which we believe Norway has specific assumptions, such as: oil management, women’s issues and some other well-known issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3207	Governments have issued a very critical opinion on the extraction of oil sands in Canada. Is the Council satisfied and comfortable with the use of Norwegian aid to extract oil sands in Madagascar and is this compatible with Norway's ambition for the Copenhagen climate summit?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3212	Of course, Norwegian aids are not used to develop oil sands in Madagascar, as suggested here. Norwegian efforts – which are currently frozen pending a new government in Madagascar, due to the crises in the country – have contributed to the development of oil management in Madagascar. But here's the obvious dilemma. Not only in Madagascar, but in almost all the countries in which we operate oil management – even most of the countries in which we provide aid – there are many things we can disagree with. Assistance to shore oil management does not guarantee that those countries will adhere exactly to Norwegian environmental standards or do exactly what we like. Assistance is not dictated, assistance is a cooperation between partners. I personally don't like oil sand. We cannot dictate what Madagascar is going to do, but we can help Madagascar set up a better administration, for example. corruption, which is a major issue, and the fact that money spent on oil development in Madagascar is directed towards development, health, education – all that should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3221	First, I want to give credit to the Council of State for his approach to climate change adaptation and assistance to it. This is how I expect that after the climate summit, there may be a matter for Stortingen about this. But I wanted to challenge the government council on the one k, on the capital, because the publicly-inspiring development committee proposed to have a private investment fund for poor countries, mainly in Africa. The idea was to take a small sum of money, approx. 10 billion DKK, currently under Statens pensionfonds – Abroad, and use it as a capital base for an own investment fund. The money was supposed to come in addition to normal assistance. In Stortinget, both the Christian People's Party and others have followed up the case, but the Government does not react. The Committee also stated that a new development fund for poor developing countries ‘will be right from an ethical point of view’. Government council Solheim has our positive to investment funds and to capital before. Can he now say anything about when the Government comes out of the distribution stage, and make a proposal for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3230	I can't give any dates for that. As the representative is well known, this is not my constitutional responsibility, but I am positive with the idea and the idea that the Christian People's Party and others here have presented. This is also something we meet internationally. The President of the World Bank, Bob Zoellick, has been to Norway on the occasion of the case. This government has set up its own – let's say – window of the State pension fund for investment in environmental technology. It's an important step forward. Once we have the experience with that, we have to look at how it can expand. So the next step will be to look at this problem: how can we invest more in the poorest countries. Let me add that the State pension fund – abroad, among others. have opened up to invest in India. India is sovereign of the world's most poor country. Most poor people live in middle-income countries — they do not live in the poorest countries. India has many, many more poor than any other country in the world. And with regard to the new investment portfolio there, there is nothing Norway has done to India in recent years that has attracted almost as positive attention in Indian media and Indian society as it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3239	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3242	Norway has a long tradition of being a country occupied by the world beyond its own borders. We are a country that is very committed to the United Nations. We have a high level of assistance, and we are committed to helping to find solutions to conflicts. In recent times, we have had a very interesting debate, I think, on Norwegian development policy, both on the scope of the assistance and on its content. I'm incredibly happy about that. This is not what the representative, Mr Höglund, called for, that there is no will for innovation and debate. On the contrary, that is what we want. The government presented in October a budget in which it wanted Norway to continue to have a high level of commitment and to devote considerable resources to assistance. In a time of financial crisis, it may be particularly important for countries to continue their engagement. It is demanding for many – we know – but it is necessary. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority here on the Stortinget who believe that we should continue to be a significant contributor. That's good, but the most important thing is that the money we give is spent in the best possible way, that we think focused on the results we want to achieve. That's why I think it's right that we bet on areas where we have great competence and where we can make a difference. While money is spent on health and education – which many people have been concerned about here today – it is also important that we point out some areas where we can contribute extra, such as investing in women and gender equality, peace building, human rights, humanitarian aid, the environment and sustainable development, oil and clean energy, good governance and the fight against corruption. That's what I call priority: picking out areas. The government has been criticized for focusing only on the 1 pst target, that the goal is more important than the content. To that I would like to say the following: If that was right, the criticism is justified. But the content is actually the most important thing. Setting level targets is mostly about having clear ambitions and being aware of how much we actually spend on our incomes. The Progress Party is the party that differs most from the Government in terms of assistance and wants to cut broadly across the line, through which the Minister of Foreign Affairs went through — regional appropriations for Africa, the Middle East, for peace, reconciliation and democracy, for environment and sustainable development, etc. If we cut as the Progress Party wants, it will have a major impact on those people who are directly affected by reduced aid, on Norway's role as an aid actor and on the agreements concluded, such as: the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred to. From being an offensive country, Norway will become a defensive country, and I do not. There are those who believe that there are completely different instruments to assistance to develop in the poorest countries. The government has been criticized for providing assistance instead of facilitating trade. I agree that trade is important for the economic growth of a country, which many of the countries we are talking about need. But there is something else to swallow the whole package and believe that as long as a liberalizes all trade and goes on liberalisation, there is a development. It's not that simple. The right has drawn up a very interesting debate on where we're going to spend the aid money. Nor do I understand the criticism of the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that no one is going to debate. I was in the 'Here and Now' debate with that representative at the latest today, so I do not fully understand that criticism. But what the Right wants is to cut off support for Latin America and Asia and concentrate on Africa. At the same time, they want us not to provide assistance to countries that are not democratically developed enough – waiting for them to be. I have little faith in almost isolating land and leaving them to themselves and asking them to take a phone when everything is on their care. I don't think you get any effect from it. Do you really think that you get a democratic development just by cutting the aid – that then things will happen by themselves? It is really believed that the third of the population living in poverty, for example. Latin America, will it get better or worse? I fear the last. I am in favour of using aid to develop democracy, to combat corruption and to get people out of poverty, and not to stop aid to countries because they are either politically disagreeable with them or because the country has challenges. I think it's a little dangerous way. To the question of spending money on Africa: we are to spend money on Africa. We spend money on Africa – we still want to do it – but leaving other regions is actually the opposite. Finally, Norway’s assistance can make a difference in the world. We can never solve the world's poverty challenges alone, but we can be a significant contributor. I hope that we can continue to keep the debate on the content of aid going – as several parties want – I think that is right in relation to the money we are going to spend and that is for the benefit of the poor in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3270	The Military Framework 8 setting opens with the following: ‘The main defence policy objective of the Government is a defence capable of meeting the challenges in a rapidly changing environment and protecting Norway’s security, interests and values.’ It's okay that this is the main goal, but is reality like this? The Progress Party is concerned about the development we see in the Norwegian defence. The number of personnel is decreasing, the equipment is getting older and for the Army, in particular, it has almost expired. Nor is there anything to suggest that the Army should get the necessary updates with the first. Most new acquisitions in terms of Air Force and Maritime Defense are not on track either, and we do not know the final price tag for some of the innovations either. Norway is a strategically very important country, both in terms of natural resources and strategic location. Therefore, it is important that we still have defence capabilities in Norway, so that we have a real opportunity to take care of our sovereignty. We decided in the long-term plan for the Defense that we should build on the Home Guard, and that the Home Guard should be trained and prepared. But then it has to be that there are no resources to practice and train the Home Security. How are you going to mobilise civilians who want to do a job to defend their country, but don't get the necessary skills to do it? The party of progress is therefore critical, and that is also why we want to strengthen the defence. We want a defence that is fully operational, with all the modern facilities that are necessary to get a well-functioning preparedness, both in peacetime and in war. This is worrying, and even more worrying. We have great soldiers out there doing an excellent job in the name of democracy. They deserve all the praise they can get for their courage and will to fight for democratic principles, and against terror. However — because it is a but when Norway does not have the necessary equipment here to ensure our soldiers help in a critical situation. I am thinking first and foremost of our helicopters in Afghanistan that cannot assist our soldiers if it is either too cold or too hot – they are simply too bad. What kind of security is it for those who voluntarily travel to fight terrorism? And what kind of security is it for those who send their sons and daughters, spouses and parents of farms? Norway must give priority to this. If we're going to be there, we're going to be there with proper equipment. Finally, a little about the group, which unfortunately is receiving too little attention in Norway, namely the veterans. They have made an out-of-world effort on behalf of Norway, and are not properly cared for – as the Progress Party sees it – when they come home. They should have been followed up both at the mental and physical level. We know that many people experience post-traumatic stress disorder when they get home, and some are unable to go back to normal work. The defense hasn't done any research on how the veterans are doing. That is what we think should be given priority, so that we are ready for those who come home after the end of a job abroad in the years to come. It would be unnecessary not to have all the impressions that you have after a hard job abroad, and it would of course not be necessary to wear them economically on top of everything. The conclusion must be: prepare the soldiers well, give them modern and efficient tools, and take care of them when they return.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3299	The claim about the real economic investment and fulfilment of the defence's long-term plan appears to be rather unlikely, as nominal increases are likely to be produced as real and actual increases, increases largely offset by price and salary compensations, which require extensive efficiency and savings measures that are not chosen to be detailed in the proposition. The government's claim to add 100 million. kr to a real strengthening of the defence is not easy to understand. Both the Air Force and the Home Guard have to invest in a fall in actual funds of several tens of millions of dollars. This seems even more confusing when the Army has to save close to 97 million. kr to achieve a ‘actual’ increase of well over 12 mills. kr. Moreover, when it is not considered appropriate to meet the long-term objectives of investment funds already in the first year, this does not create any further confidence in doing so for the rest of the period. The government’s draft budget is a brief and comprehensive overview of how the defence’s operational capability has changed further throughout 2008 and how new material is still not available to remedy this. The frigates lack spare parts and qualified crew. The old MTBs are phased out long before there is any hope of putting new vessels into service. The old transport aircraft are known to have been taken out of service, while only two new ones have been delivered so far. The Ministry insists that this is a temporary situation, but in the opinion of the Right, this is a situation that already appears to be quite prolonged and which is constantly prolonged due to delays, defects in the equipment supplied and not least lack of money. This leads to confusion between operational training and experience and the fact that key personnel often find other jobs — unfortunately outside the Defence Department. Despite this and similar situations, both in the Army and in the Air Force, the budget proposal claims that the main results in most areas are positive. It is claimed that the defence has become more relevant and has increased operational capability, and it states: ‘The defence has consistently had good operational capability for operations abroad and has been prepared to contribute to peace operations nationally.’ It is recognised correctly that high levels of international activity and lower levels of exercise than planned have shown a slight decrease in the capacity of national incident and crisis management. When this is seen in the context of also admitting that the operational preparedness capability of the Brigades is limited due to the issuing of orders and specialists in ongoing operations, cf. Afghanistan, and that some material is missing, that the Home Guard is only partially operational, that the Coast Guard has poor access to helicopters, that the Maritime Defense has reduced its presence, and that there is poor availability of key air defence platforms, is the Ministry of Defence's claim of positive main findings difficult to reconcile with reality. On the contrary, the defence has an operational capability lower than it has been for a very long time. This concerns the Maritime Defense Agency, which has received an increase of almost 70 million. kr, but which, like the Air Force, the Home Guard and the Army, gets to this so-called plus through internal efficiency and saving. In sum, this means that in order to ensure a real increase in the available defence framework, it is expected that the defence industries will save more than 230 million. kr in 2010. In addition, Norway has spent enormous resources on material investments but, as mentioned above, achieves very little enhanced operational capacity. There is reason to believe that in several areas of investment, these too, unfortunately, will go far in time. This has gone beyond operational capability and it has gone beyond an adequate level of practice. Against this background, through its proposal, the Right has chosen to strengthen the defence budget by more than 500 million. kr for the year 2010, precisely in order to strengthen the chapters relating to the defence sectors and the Home Office, which relate to a proper level of practice and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3322	20 years and one month ago today, a dramatic event that fundamentally changed Europe was the fall of the Berlin Wall. That what happened on 9 November 1989 was going to happen right then, no one could predict. But that sooner or later it would have happened should not have been surprising. Willy Brandt's great King's idea of a reunited Germany and a reunited Europe he described as that what belongs together is growing together. Fortunately, he got right to the end. There has traditionally been a strong consensus on Norwegian foreign and security policy. Speaking of foreign policy and Willy Brandt, he must have once again said that foreign policy is too important to be left to anyone other than the Minister for Foreign Affairs! In fact, we have a capable foreign minister, but we're going to try to contribute as much as we can, so are the others. Norway’s foreign, defence and security policy is based on membership of the UN and NATO. Norway's interests and security are safeguarded through our own defence and through the alliance relationship with NATO. We must have a defence capable of guaranteeing Norwegian sovereignty, Norwegian rights, interests and values, and of maintaining Norwegian freedom of action against military and other pressure. The world looks different – therefore, the defence must also look different. Fortunately, this has also been acknowledged by the Storting. For this reason, the defence has undergone extensive changes over the last 20 years through changing majority and changing governments. Last year, Stortinget dealt with the long-term defence plan for the years 2009-2012. And to use an appropriate term, the long-term plan is the government's marshall. When the next year is over and the budget we are adopting today is implemented, we are halfway through the planning period and, hopefully, halfway to the targets set for the end of 2012. Earlier today, in Stortinget, we have discussed the education budget for the next year. In that debate I noticed that several speakers said that now is the time for reform breaks in school. I'm absolutely sure that if we get to 2012, there'll never be any reform break in Defense. We have to change the defense all the time, because the threat picture is changing, the world is changing, and we have to have a defense that is continuously able to meet the challenges Norway is facing. As I said, there has been a broad consensus on Norway’s defence and security policy. That is why I must say that I am quite amazed at the language of the Right in the budget setting for next year. The husband of the misdemeanor! We can also go back and find reports from the National Audit Office with comments on the defense's dispositions while the Right has run the Ministry of Defence. If I am not mistaken, the National Audit Office did not approve the defence accounts for 2004. I will not tear up in which party had the Minister of Defense that year, nor which party had the Minister of Finance, or who was the Minister of Finance. Such a bedridden game – I'm better than you – the Storting should rise above. Let us maintain the great consensus we have had over the last 60 years on defence and security policy. The majority recently discussed Afghanistan and will do so again in the New Year. So let me just briefly mention that next year, Norway's military efforts in Afghanistan will affect the entire defence of Norway. The situation in Afghanistan is demanding and challenging. Fortunately, however, progress is also made in many important areas, which is due to the fact that the world community, including Norway, is there and contributes to security and stability. We should extend a great deal of thanks and recognition to the Norwegian military forces and civil, humanitarian and diplomatic personnel who have served or served in Afghanistan. Your efforts are essential for us to have an Afghanistan that we want, an Afghanistan based on the Afghans' own premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3343	The President must remind the speaker that there is a difference between the tasks of the Minister of Finance and the National Auditor in Norwegian policy. But the President will nevertheless pass the word on to Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3346	That was nice, President. Earlier this fall, the Stortinget had visited a delegation at government level from Nicaragua. The country is one of the poorest and most corrupt in Latin America, and it doesn't say much. On questions about just this with corruption, the delegation leader from Nicaragua simply put in a juicy laugh. Corruption in Nicaragua, no, it was before that, before the sandinists came to power and could free the Nicaraguan people. Now everything had become so good, he meant. At the same time, he was very clear that Nicaragua needed more money from Norway, a lot of money – for many years to come. He was pleased that Nicaragua had already received hundreds of millions from Norway, and hoped that it would continue. As he said, "Norway is our best friend." He wasn't very happy that I pointed out that Nicaragua is in the top of the world when it comes to corruption, that Nicaragua is in practice at war with all its neighbours plus some more, and that the United States has actually become Nicaragua's main trading partner. In this way, the Nicaraguan government representative put it all in context. The world dictators have a lot in common. They're corrupt across the board. They are completely uninterested in the opinions and needs of the people. They love Norwegian aid policy. They hate the United States, and they only laugh when critical questions are asked about corruption and the absence of democracy and human rights. I was clearly informed that attitudes like mine were a problem for the Nicaraguan authorities, and I am very proud of that. The Norwegian Government has now stopped the economic subsidisation of the country. We're supposed to be happy about that. This should have happened a long time ago, and the Government should now carry out a critical review of Norwegian aid policy. There are probably many other countries that should be put on hold, such as Nicaragua. After all, it is this type of country that in its time the Minister for Aid called Norwegian aid policy ‘naive’. Currently, Norwegian aid policy is mainly based on financial assistance. We've been doing that for over 50 years. Nevertheless, it does not seem that the recipient countries are able to find the way into the prosperous world. Prosperity and well-being still seem equally unattainable to very many countries. The situation in the assisted countries is scarred by poverty, poverty, lack of knowledge, hunger, crime, corruption and misery. In the meantime, Norwegian aid policy is characterised by ambiguity. The government boasts with increasing strength that we give and give, in 2010 over 1 pst. of our gross national income, almost NOK 30 billion. At the same time, however, Norway refuses market access so that the same countries can produce, sell, export, earn money and develop well-being and prosperity. Many Norwegian politicians are good at social policy. So let's imagine a parallel: see that a social client is told by Nav that he can do exactly what he wants. He can lie, steal, use weapons and dope – anything, but he must promise two things: he must not start his own business, and he must not take paid work. With such a social policy, what other alternative does he have than crime, violence, drugs and alcohol? The parallel to Norwegian aid policy is evident. In the world society, poor countries have been denied access to important markets. The attention of 50,000 Norwegian farmers is always heavier than the consideration of 500 million of the world's poorest. Thus, they are unable to develop production and exports to an extent that could give them growth and prosperity to an extent that they could be satisfied with. And the miser continues despite ever-increasing appropriations from the Norwegian state budget. In November, Norad’s annual results report came. It showed, as the Evening Post pointed out a few days later, that there are actually no summary accounts for Norwegian aid or its results. The progress party will do something about this. The aid policy of the Progress Party consists of two main elements. The first is that poor countries should be helped. But there must be strict demands on aid. The recipient countries need to develop democracy and liberal economic framework conditions so that countries are gradually freed from the dependence on financial subsidies. Then we must be very hardy in our demands to combat corruption. Corruption is an obstacle not only to democracy but also to the well-being and prosperity and economic development of ordinary people. Assistance shall not be a permanent solution, but help for self-help.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3369	Development policy to the Right is a policy that focuses on results rather than on percentages. I'm actually glad that this debate, to a greater extent than normal at least, focuses on just that. Because when the target is percent or billions, it often gives a clue that there is less need for improvement and less need for evaluation. And we need to give priority. When Erik Solheim in Morgenbladet on 19 September 2008 on the 2009 budget in his field says that ‘nothing is being prioritised, because the aid framework is growing’, I fundamentally disagree with the approach of the Council of State. Right wants to give priority. We prioritise a clearer thematic focus, especially in the field of health education. We give priority to a clearer geographical focus where we remove Latin America entirely from bilateral support. We are reducing significantly in Asia, and we are increasing in Africa. We are demanding completely different requirements for the recipient countries than what has been done so far. It is now necessary to make a real wish and demand that countries moving in the wrong direction in respect of both respect for human rights and lack of democracy also feel that Norwegian support is being reduced, and that – if you go in the right direction in terms of democracy and human rights – you can get increased Norwegian support. The last point in our priority list is on market access. Trade is one tool that has brought most people out of poverty throughout history. An open economy is the main tool to offer as much as possible a wealth that is above what you have today. Norway may use its trade access as a possible factor to promote countries that are going in the right direction democratically. This is also why the Right wants to remove several of the restrictions currently on duty-free access to Norway. We strongly hope – and also work strongly for – that we will establish a WTO agreement that is as clear as possible in the direction of free trade. As I also mentioned in one of the replies to one of the Councils, the number of countries that are now receiving assistance either directly or indirectly from Norway is about. 100. That means that when it comes to the number of countries, we're not on a priority. The same lack of priority means in clear text that our projects are more difficult to evaluate, and we have less control over the achievement of the target than if we had fewer projects, fewer countries and fewer themes to focus on. But I have to draw up at least two examples of countries in which I believe the aid should have been either reduced, removed altogether or at least distorted in relation to what I have now said, especially the link to democracy. For 2008, Vietnam received approx. 176 million. kr in aid. The country is ranked as not free at Freedom House its ranking over freedom – not unexpectedly, as this is a brutal dictatorship, a country I have otherwise been thrown out of. The country is incarculating oppositional and other dissenting opinions — including journalists and, for that matter, people who have investigated corruption. Vietnam is one of the prototypes on land that needs to set an example; if you have, for example, a human rights dialogue like the one we have, over so long as it doesn't work, must have a consequence. The consequence must be, as the Right sees it, that we're changing or reducing our assistance. The second country, as Erik Solheim has repeatedly pointed out, is one of the crown examples of a country with a good governance. It's Tanzania. Yet Tanzania is a country that has been ruled by one party for a very long time. I take to heart both the wish of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and of the Minister of Assistance to debate in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3388	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the committee for putting a good deal of work into the vote. I would also like to thank the debaters so far today for having devoted a lot of attention to defence issues in the debate. There is a strong political consensus on the arrangements and the main course for the conversion of defence, which is one of Norway's largest public conversion projects. It was initiated by the Stoltenberg I government in 2001, followed by the Bondevik II government, and is now being continued by the Stoltenberg II government. To a large extent, the Storting agreement on the course has made it possible to succeed in the large conversion handles and to arrive at the solid results that are now available. Today, we have a relevant defence that holds a high international standard. We safeguard our national interests and rights in the neighbourhoods, and we participate in operations on behalf of the international community. We're doing this in an excellent way, with competent crews and modern materials. It would not have been possible for the Defense to solve its tasks in such a good way without the major changes in the arrangement, structure and organisation that have taken place under several governments. Norway takes active and significant co-responsibility for international peace and security through operations abroad. I have, on behalf of the Government with joy, noticed the great political consensus on our international commitment. I am sure that it is important for our staff out there to know that they have this support in their back. Afghanistan is the most important and demanding operation. As previously announced, I would remind you that the Government will return to the Stortinget on the final arrangement of Norway's strength contribution to Afghanistan in early 2010. It is also important for the Government to follow up veterans who have participated in foreign operations for Norway. Some experience a difficult situation after finishing service. For the following year, their rights are significantly strengthened by the specific compensation scheme for personnel who have suffered psychological damage. Once again, I am pleased to note that Stortinget also has a lot of attention on this work. Several governments of different political colours share the honour of securing Norway a modern and well-functioning defence so far. That's why I was a little surprised at the criticism that lies in the attitude of some of the opposition parties regarding the state of defence. It's not new that the Progress Party is willing to use more tax dollars, but comments from the Right, and sometimes also Christian People's Party, are somewhat more difficult to understand in this historical perspective. For example, this applies to their comments on the Army’s operating budget, a budget that is actually strengthened by 767 million. kr for the period 2006-2009. The government is following up the Government's defence decisions. So we're going to do 500 of the 800 million. kr of the planned increase in appropriations has been implemented by the submitted budget for the following year. When we also take into account the defence's own actions, about one fifth of the long-term financial assumptions remains to be realised at the end of next year. The implementation of the long-term plan is thus well on track. The increase in appropriations and internally released funds are geared towards the migration objectives of the long-term plan and shall include, inter alia,: go to increased manning, increased exercise and training and reception of new material. In addition, the Government has significantly increased the allocation of operations abroad in relation to the long-term plan. Although the Government is so well on track with the implementation of the long-term plan, tight financial management will be needed until the conversion measures are fully effective. This is marked in all defenses, but especially in the Army and the Home Office, where the level of practice is lower than desired. The government decided to reduce the training in Home Affairs this year to put the structural measures in place in the long-term plan. However, the intention has been that practice and training should increase again beyond the period. That's why we've added that approx. 20 pst. the area structure will be trained next year. As shown in the draft budget, the Government has chosen to give priority to the level of operations next year at the expense of the investment level in order to maximise the initial balance of developments over the long term. One of the designs is paradoxically enough that there are too many annual works in the defense in relation to the planning assumptions. This does not mean that in some areas the number of annual works should not be increased, but that we must distribute the annual works so that the right person can get in the right place. The aim is then to strengthen the budget for material investment in 2011 and 2012 and to increase the level of exercise and training. The defence operational budget has thus been substantially strengthened, and it has been substantially strengthened for the second consecutive year with the proposal for the 2010 budget. With today's budget, the operational budget half-way over the long term will actually be above the foreseen level at the end of the long term. On this background, it is surprising that such a large word is used about an alleged negative state of the defence's operating budget and purchasing power. The operating budget is actually proposed to be reinforced by 455 million. kr from this year to next year. The government is proposing an operational budget for next year, which is actually DKK 1.7 billion above the Defence Operations budget in 2005, in the last year of the Bondevik II government. The increased level of operation includes: for the reception of new aeroplanes and vessels, increased exercise and training activities in the Home Guard and maritime defence. In 2009, the average training in the Army will be 20 days. In 2003, the average was around 12 days. Equally important is that the Bondevik II government significantly reduced the army, while Stoltenberg II has built up the crew with about 50 pst. All in all, we are talking about a formidable increase in the army's exercise volume under this government. There has been a lot of discussion lately about the development of costs in defence and the annual wage and price compensation. However, it is known that this compensation has for several years been significantly above the known level of the consumer price index. Thus, the compensation received by the defence sector, after careful calculations in the Ministry of Finance, takes into account the specific cost growth in the defence sector. Part of the compensation of wages and salaries is post-calculated in the light of the salary structure in the coming years, so that the entire compensation is not reflected in the balance of the budget. However, let me be clear that I see many challenges in the ongoing transition. The Government draws the Storting's attention to the fact that technical problems of the Skold class's propulsion system mean that deliveries will be somewhat delayed compared to what the budget proposal provides. I refer you to my own letter to the Grandfather on the matter. I stress that there is still uncertainty about the updated delivery plan. However, for the defence, it is more important to have a well-functioning platform later than to get something that is not fully operational, as soon as possible. The defence has planned to integrate new equipment, including: new target missiles, on ships in 2011 and 2012. It will therefore still take a few years for the new vessels to be fully exploited. It is also important for me to point out that I take the Riksrevision remarks very seriously. Responsible governance is an obvious objective of modern defence. It will be followed up in 2010. So I do not conceal that the transition is challenging, nor that some priorities can be perceived as very demanding. Overall, however, I believe that the draft budget for next year clearly shows that the Government is paying for the defence and is following the objectives adopted by the Stortinget through the examination of the long-term plan. I look forward to continued cooperation on the implementation of this. The escalation of the defence budget continues, and the solid start of the first two years of the long term facilitates the follow-up of the North Sea effort and the provision of robust and requested strengths to operations abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3430	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3433	I agree with the Council of State that a discussion about who had the best or who had the worst defence policy is not a discussion that brings us much further. However, it is important to look at the operational capability of the defence. In the case of the Maritime Defense, we have five new frigates on the way, or partly arrived. Is the Minister for Defence satisfied with the plan now being used by the frigates? Or will the Minister of Defense come back to Stortinget with a plan for how to use them in a more optimal and efficient way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3438	There has been a lot of talk about the frigates and their operational concept. The five frigates that we're going to get are planned with three and a half crew assuming that it's not planned for all five to go all the time. However, three are staffed, and one is used on schedule for further training purposes, and then a cycle has been introduced in which the fifth will be involved in maintenance and adjustment. As I see it, the operating concept is presented. Of course, this is also something we want to assess, for example. whether it is right to think of an additional crew — beyond three and a half crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3445	The last version of the new soldier is as follows: ‘The defence is, and has long been, one of the 10 worst-reputed floors among the 81 floors and organisations involved in the investigation. 2005 was clearly the year under review for both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, but the basket shows that 2009 will not be a particularly better year.’ Then I would like to ask, what will the Council of State do to improve the reputation of defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3455	As I perceive the efforts made in the Defence in recent years, there is a great deal of respect for it. Together with the government at that time, the size took hold of a situation that was described as the defence was about to rot. A continuous conversion process has been carried out after that, and I see – as I also went into my post – that this is a formidable effort. That this also goes on, I think is one of the best defenses themselves can do to enhance and improve their reputation. They will of course have my full effort in that work, and I hope to get back to the Storting in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3462	Governments had several references to our war veterans. After all, the size has adopted an improved compensation system by including the so-called objective liability, which in practice means that the compensation increases. This scheme will enter into force on approx. three weeks, 1 January. That's excellent. What is hard to understand, however, is that you distinguish between war veterans who are already injured and those who will be after 1 January – even if we hope it will be as few as possible. Logically, the scheme should be the same for everyone. My question to the Council of State is: why don't people who have done the same for the country, who have suffered the same damage, and who bear the burden of the rest of their lives, have the same objective basis for compensation? Why won't the Council of State go in so that all kinds of war veterans get the same arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3474	There are many legal questions that lawyer Michael Tetzschner and I could stand here and discuss. It is quite right, as was said, that the new system is based on objective liability. There is also reason to note that laws normally do not have the mechanism to give retroactive effect, but here we get to a compensation scheme that actually allows for those who may have damage that is older than that on which the law is based. And that a new circumstance occurred in 2005, when the mandate was given to personnel for international operations, should also be included in this picture. It's a rhetorical point, which must also be pleasing to the Right, that this government has taken hold of this question, which the Bondevik II government did not reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3483	Known information suggests that the situation in the Faryab province of Afghanistan, where the Norwegian forces are located, is likely to escalate worse during the financial year. Based on this known information, the United States has decided to send 30,000 additional forces, and the NATO Alliance is increasing by between 5,000 and 7000 staff. The government said no to the NATO Chief's primary wish during his Oslo visit, where he asked for a strengthened Norwegian troops contribution and a civil contribution. Would not Norway's no obviously weaken the security of Norwegian civil and military personnel in the Faryab province during the financial year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3490	I feel confident that a balanced effort, as Norway provides both civil and military in Afghanistan, is the right way to go. On the military side, our efforts have gained great recognition. Our equipment of efforts with greater emphasis on mentoring, training and training of Afghan forces is now actually also being followed up in the ISAF regime. We also made adjustments, not least in the light of the security situation, some time ago. We have also wanted to assess any need for adaptation, including: in the light of the publication of new contributions by the United States. We contribute with considerable resources of high quality and will continue to do so. And as told, I also come back to Stortinget with a proposition about our efforts in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3495	Let me confirm to the council that the Christian People's Party wants to cooperate on the implementation of the long-term plan, based on the position we took to the plan when it was dealt with here in Stortinget. But we're going to do it with a critical look, because we're not as convinced as the Council of State that the allocation proposed today is enough to keep a desired level of operation and exercise. My question to the Council of State is about the relationship with veterans from international operations. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have received the entire committee on a note that points to the need for a better follow-up of veterans who are suffering damage. The majority of the Committee supports a note that the allocation to the VA for damage in international operations should be strengthened. Those at risk of their own lives in Norway should experience that we are preparing for them. Therefore, my question as to whether the Council of State will provide for a larger investigation into damage among veterans in international operations and whether it will follow up the majority comment on increased support for SIOPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3502	I can promise the representative Høybråten that veterans will have a lot of attention from my side. As a follow-up to the issue being dealt with in Stortinget, we will now prepare an action plan in the Ministry. Of course, it will be based on both experience and input from organisations, as well as on what we have already identified by actions. SIOPS will be an important partner for us. I have also announced that in the Nordic Minister of Defence cooperation, veterinary matters will be one of the key issues in the coming years when I have the Presidency on behalf of Norway – and there will again be cooperation with the veterinary organisations at the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3512	Norway is a small country in a densely interwoven world. We always have to remember that most people live in India and China. Globalization is very positive for us. We are one of the world's winners because of globalisation, not despite it. It has given us access to important markets for our export industry, it gives us greater cultural understanding, and it has given us cheap imports of consumer goods and access to labour through labour, particularly through the EEA – to mention something. The world is in a very serious financial crisis, and the financial crisis also affects foreign policy in several ways. The need for stronger control of financial markets is evident and there is a willingness to do so, including: in the EU. Large budget deficits during the financial crisis in very many countries also lead to cuts in many national budgets. Norway is in many ways an exception. The financial crisis is therefore a very good example of how the global and national are two sides of the same coin. Today, the Nordic regions are Norway’s main strategic focus on foreign policy. There's a lot of reasons for that. Climate change is very visible in the north. Northern areas are likely to have large oil and gas resources and some of the world's richest fishing resources. When the melting of the ice opens up new and shorter international transport routes between the Pacific and the Atlantic, which are too cold for pirates, new challenges and opportunities await in the area. We have an active policy in the northern regions. Both enhanced cooperation with Russia and our Nordic neighbours through Barents cooperation and Arctic cooperation is very important for Norway. Nevertheless, the people who live in the north, and who live in and with resource wealth, are the best of all to see the results of the effort. The Barents region is in reality becoming a single labour market. The future in the north implies increased activity on both the Norwegian and Russian sides. From 3000 border crossings between Norway and Russia in 1990, almost 110 000 cross the Norwegian-Russian border this year. The drivers behind them include: Norwegian enterprises with labour shortages, which will employ Russians, but more Norwegian enterprises are now engaged in Russia. Only in Murmansk, I've heard, over 20 Norwegian companies are established. It is important to have a simpler regulatory framework for border control with Russia in the north. Norway is now negotiating with Russia on a local border traffic regime, which will allow the population of border areas – within 30 km of each side – to cross the border without a visa. I hope we succeed in that. After the government’s Northern Territory Initiative was presented in the previous period, it has been increased by DKK 1.5 billion. In 2010, we are increasing the allocation by new 550 million. kr. It provides room for seven long-term strategic areas involving most ministries. In addition to this, there are several sectoral initiatives, such as: National transport plan and Defence’s long-term plan, which prioritises the northern regions. Perhaps even more than measured in crowns and ears, the political initiative behind the Northern Region Initiative of the Government has produced results. Our position as leading countries in the development of the north is strengthened. It's not obvious, but it's important to us. The understanding of the need for strong Norwegian and international focus and cooperation in the north is established and anchored both nationally, through broad support in the Stortinget, and internationally, through extensive international cooperation, not least through several projects. Both the EU and the US have presented their north-eastern strategies with plans for a stronger commitment. Russia also has such plans. Last night, Council conclusions on Arctic issues were adopted by EU foreign ministers. They conclude here that an EU policy for the Arctic should be based on international maritime law – an important breakthrough for Norway. The Council also opens up to the establishment of an Arctic Information Centre in the EU. The international interest in the Arctic and the northernmost regions of the world will only continue to increase. The government's ambition is to be ahead of this development. This is, of course, a position we in the Labour Party support. To achieve this, work must be part of the daily life of any department. Work must be well coordinated. Study visits and visits to Norwegian and foreign target groups continue to be organised. There's a lot of people who need knowledge about what's going on in the north. This work will be reinforced next year, and reputational work will be strengthened, inter alia. through our foreign stations. It's important. The coastguard oversees vessels and prevents illegal fishing in the north, and has been strengthened in recent years, inter alia. by increasing the number of days sailing. Overfished by cod has been reduced by 60 pst. The phase-in of new frigates will strengthen Norway's military capacity in the north. At the end of the 1990s, Norwegian fighter aircraft were on the wings to follow Russian planes three to four times. Last year, this increased to 87 Russian planes. In the choice of purchase of Norwegian fighter aircraft, the ability to monitor, patrol and exercise sovereignty over large sea areas has been important requirements for the aeroplanes. This also means a great deal in a north-eastern perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3542	As the case rapporteur for the Svalbard budget, I would like to add a few words to that. Svalbard is, of course, a central part of the northern regions for Norway. The management of Svalbard is based on Norway’s full and unrestricted sovereignty over the island group, which is clearly enshrined in the Svalbard Treaty of 1920. The objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy have been established for a long time and form the basis for a stable and predictable exercise of authority for this group of islands. Norway has a significant responsibility for ensuring peace, stability, the protection of the wilderness environment and responsible resource use and management at Svalbard. By virtue of their sovereignty, Norway may also apply to Svalbard all the laws of the mainland as long as the law does not conflict with the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty. One example of this may be that the EEA Agreement does not apply to Svalbard and therefore there are different rules for Svalbard than for mainland Norway. The budget statement shows that Norwegian svalbard policy is largely politically anchored here in Stortinget. It also shows that we're going to go in for a 17.1 million increase in the budget. kr, i.e. 7.4 pst. increase in relation to the 2009 budget. We have previously addressed a report on Svalbard in Stortinget, which also established a broad political consensus on the future. No one visiting Svalbard can avoid being turned off by the powerful wilderness nature of this island group. Svalbard represents a natural heritage and a cultural heritage that Norwegian authorities have a specific responsibility to preserve. One of the main objectives of the svalbard policy is to preserve the unique wilderness nature. The environmental status of Svalbard is essentially very good today. Norway has long traditions of polar research, especially in the Arctic, and is also considered to be a heavy research nation in this field. In recent decades, large resources have been invested in research and education infrastructure, both in Longyearbyen and in New Zealand. This facilitates the strengthening of Svalbard as the international research arena. Further priority for Arctic research is widely supported. A robust presence has been and is an important tool in Norwegian swallowing policy. For a long time, coal has been critical for the Norwegian settlement in Longyearbyen. Nevertheless, coal management is essential for the Longyearbyen as a well-developed family community, and without coal-fired housing would be much less extensive, and likely to vary — at least the number of northern Svalbards applies, as under current rules no restrictions can be imposed on other countries' coal operations and settlements. But even though the coal industry has been and is important, other industries have also taken up their responsibilities. The growth of tourism as a basic industry is reflected in the increase in the number of guest days from barely 20,000 in 1991 to over 86 000 in 2007. Travel life activities in vulnerable areas require both knowledge of the actors and regulation by the authorities. Most of the growth in activity and population on Svalbard can be related to Longyearbyen. The town of Isfjorden has had a significant growth in the population over the past ten years. By 31 December 2008, there were 2,018 residents residing in Longyearbyen. Now, society is facing a capacity limit with regard to local infrastructure. A growth similar to that in the last ten years cannot be expected in the future, and further growth in the population will trigger the need for large investment. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence points out that the Arctic landscape is vulnerable, and it is important that this vulnerability be taken into account by further focusing on business development and travel. These considerations need to be balanced against the general desire for stable family housing. A good swallowing policy requires coordinated efforts by several departments. Coordination of these efforts is important, and it is absolutely necessary to make good use of resources in line with the general political and more specific environmental policy objectives. But activity at nearly 80 degrees north puts both people and equipment on a test. This budgetary position shows that an aggregate increase wants to facilitate good governance where development and activity are adapted to the specific challenges facing the Svalbard community in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3572	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3575	Sex is politics. Sex is also an overarching foreign policy. When women can't control their own sexuality, then sex is politics. When early marriage and pregnancy put an end to many girls' schooling, then is sex policy. When almost five million women get health damage every year because there's no order for abortion, then there's six policies. Therefore, the work on sexual and reproductive health is an important part of the Government’s efforts to promote gender equality internationally. Sexual and reproductive health is about pregnancy, birth and sexually transmitted diseases, protection against abuse and access to contraceptives. I am proud that Millennium Development Goals 4 and 5 on maternal and child health are priority areas for us – and I am pleased with the Government's proposal to continue the strong commitment in efforts for women and for gender equality in development cooperation. I have noticed that the Progress Party in the public debate continues to say that they want to combat sexual mutilation, coercion and cultural traditions that weaken women's independence. I am then surprised that they do not prioritise their work towards this higher level in foreign policy. Does the Progress Party believe that human rights are primarily reserved for Norwegian women? Or do they think that market forces will inform women ashore with conservative traditions about their sexual rights? Do they think that trade or increased trade will reduce coerciveness? When the Progress Party will reduce the external budget by more than one third, it cannot be avoided that they also reduce the work that ensures women in other parts of the world the privileges of Norwegian women: the right to education, the right to be heard and the right to shape their own lives. On our scale is 39.6 pst. by the representatives of women. In the assemblies of the world, women only make up 17 pst. The progress party cuts in money that goes to ensure other women the rights that have enabled me to stand here today and for the representative Siv Jensen to become the leader of the Progress Party. Over the last four years, the amount of female-oriented assistance has increased by DKK 2.4 billion. Female-oriented assistance has also increased from 20 pst. to 30 pst. of the entire aid budget. Women's rights are an objective in itself and at the same time a prerequisite for achieving other development policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3609	I thought, as a fresh representative, that it was common for decisions to be taken here in Stortinget to be taken by the departments. It is therefore with great wonder that I have noticed the ambiguities surrounding the introduction of the new session system in the Defence. There have been great achievements in projects to improve today's session arrangements, which have very many weaknesses. A new regime would provide for better selection and recruitment to the Defence, but now the Government chooses to introduce a testing scheme because of a lack of willingness to prioritize within its own agreed bets. In any case, it should be a major defeat for the recent Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen to see such well-established and clear action now being overlooked by today's government. We have witnessed a little protective romance from the representative Vedum today. The Minister of Defense did not mention our 7000 to 8 000 soldiers in need of protection each year, with one word in his speech to the Stortinget. But I want to focus on those who make a brilliant effort every single day. There has been a long discussion about the status of protective measures for those in the first-time service. It is therefore with great wonder that I look at the proposal for today's budget, which does not mention a single word about this. I am also surprised that the regime of trustees in the Defence and Defence Staff has developed 55 measures, which they passed on to political teams, and that none of these measures are mentioned in the State budget in a single word. I believe that if today's duty is to survive, we depend on that we have motivated soldiers, that they have a meaningful service, and that they are actually being demonstrated in a way that is worthy in 2009. Today's guardians deserve clear goals, as former Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold did in 2005. She said that we should reach them, in terms of status lifting and compensation for the soldiers responsible. The government's draft budget is described by the soldiers as comical, and then there should be reason to take an extra look at the priorities of compulsory soldiers. I find, together with the Right and with both soldiers and officers in the Norwegian defence today, that the Government has unfortunately failed in this area too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3627	When we listen to the debate on what is the apparent requirement of the Progress Party for factors to be present in the beneficiary countries of assistance in terms of the degree of democracy, anti-corruption and respect for human rights, it sounds like we are in the future, in order to be on the safe side, should start to provide assistance only to Sweden and Denmark – and it just might be. Assistance itself is a risk project, but assistance works. The great paradox in the world of aid is that the peoples who need our most development work are the peoples who live in those countries with the least democratic regimes, which are often estrangements for breaking human rights and for corruption. I think it's amazing that there are today's government parties who dare to take the tough discussions about what creates development, as well as to come up with the new grips to help where we can best contribute. We have never had as much debate about the device and effect of Norwegian assistance as in the last four years. All those concerned with efficiency and assistance should take note of the Paris Declaration and what it says about the construction of state structures and local ownership, and what it points to by effective instruments in the aid policy. Then I look forward to the point that the Progress Party has once again used a lot of space to criticise – budget support. Budgetary support is an important instrument for precisely responsibleing the authorities of the beneficiary countries so that they take responsibility for their own development. It is important because it supports its own priorities. It involves parliaments, and when it works – and most often it does – it leads to more transparency around budget management as a result of the demands they make with support. What budget support does is to ensure that developing countries themselves have their own hands on the road to poverty reduction. International evaluations also show that budget support is risky, but it works. It has great positive effects. Therefore, it is paradoxical that those batches which claim here that efficiency is more important than the amount of assistance, at the same time cut and reject one of the important means of achieving just local anchoring, accountability and long-term development. It's the results of the assistance that count. That is why I am also pleased that it is today's government that dares to give priority, which dares to focus on the tools that international evaluations say have a great impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3640	Now I'm finally going to be allowed to wear my own hat. Freedom of expression is something that we here in Norway take for granted, and I don't think everyone has quite taken on board that freedom of expression is not self-evident around the world. In May of this year, Norway was elected to the Human Rights Council together with, among others, Norway. China, Russia and Cuba. Having a seat in the Human Rights Council commits, and we must not in any way fail to do so even if we sit in the Council. The Progress Party expects Norway to say clearly about violations of human rights. So far, worldwide, 68 journalists have been killed. Of these, 50 are killed in their own country for political reasons. Deaths of journalists occur in Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe. So this is a widespread phenomenon. Unfortunately, there is an increase in the killing of journalists from last year at 50 p.m., which is a good reason to worry about. Being killed because of their opinions and their willingness to communicate to the population, that is to say to practice their profession, is totally unacceptable. In addition to the slain, the many hundreds who are in prison and tortured, or those who live in their homes but who are threatened to silence, come. From the website of the CPJ, the Committee of Two Protect Journalists, or the Committee for the Protection of Journalists, it is shown that 136 journalists are in prison worldwide, where countries that are just China, Iran, Cuba and Eritrea top the list. Several of these countries are also members of the Human Rights Council. But also countries like Azerbaijan, Russia and Egypt are on this list. We cannot accept this, and I hope that we on the Norway side are clear and clear that we cannot accept this. In all the forums we are in, and where human rights are a theme, we need to address precisely the right to freedom of expression. I have visited countries like Ukraine and Russia, where I have met opposition press and their journalists who say they feel monitored and persecuted. It may seem that the Human Rights Council does not care to a great extent about detaining freedom of expression, but instead compromises are made that aim to limit freedom of expression to the benefit of religion. If the Human Rights Council is to have legitimacy, it must now focus on what is important, namely the protection of fundamental human rights. The Progress Party expects Norway not to be part of these compromises, but to dare there to be other tens. That's how you get respect and integrity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3657	This spring, Stortinget dealt with two important documents in relation to our veterans and responsible personnel. It was Ot.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009 and St.meld. No 34 for 2008-2009. These two important documents referred to our responsibilities, and that we clearly had to make visible the responsibility of the defence for the personnel. There were various discussions in these documents, and a comprehensive review of measures and arrangements could be established for the staff. What's going on? Well, it's about the responsibility of society, the defense and the national authorities when we send our women and men on a demanding mission now in conflict areas. We must also recognize that we have not been good enough in this area, and that many veterans have not been properly and properly respected. If we look at how many people have been in the service of Norway after the Second World War, this is about approx. 120,000 men and women. It is now this year between 700 and 900 officers, officers and soldiers out there at all times. This means that between 1200 and 1600 people will participate in operations where Norway has a contribution this year. If we look at the international situation, it won't be less of this in the future. But the daily effort they make has its price, and it costs to risk their own security because they want to make an effort for society. It costs to be away from those you're happy with, and it costs to meet a society that's ruled by wars and conflicts, and meet individuals who all have their own history. Then it's not least that we're proud of the efforts these soldiers make. There's a risky mission to create peace and stability out there, and it also contributes to security and security for us here at home. I am now very pleased that the Government, which not least the Council of State has expressed today, is now taking this seriously and thoroughly and also following up what the Stortinget has said earlier. We have addressed the issue and, as the Minister of Defence also said now, the action plan is being implemented in full and look at the rights that need to be strengthened in this area. We have obligations when we ask the growing Norwegian population to go out and make an effort for the country of origin, for democracy and for peace and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3670	It's an interesting debate that alternates between the Middle East, Afghanistan, Olavsværn and the more homely parts of our kingdom. But that's what it's been like when we're going to bring together foreign and defence policy in one hat. The draft defence budget for 2010 is of the same size as the increase in the social security budget from 2009 to 2010. It's worrying – and it says a little about the development of our welfare community. The share of the defence budget in the total budget has continued to decline. This happens at the same time as defence equipment has had a much higher cost development than other materials. It was good to hear that the Minister of Defence stressed this in his speech. Defence has been through a more or less coherent change process over the last 20 years. Much of this change has been necessary to achieve an effective structure. Now this process of change has come so far that some start asking questions about whether we can maintain all the defenses. You approach a critical mass in size. All these changes have been a major challenge and burden on defence personnel. I would therefore say that we have now come to you that there is a need for a strong uplift in the appropriations for the defence. What worries me the most is the means to train and practice. It helps little with good material if we don't have money to practice and maintain. I would have liked to have commented on a number of areas in the defense, but within three minutes I have to limit myself to one of them, and that is the Home Office. It was a unanimous defence committee which, when examining the Long-term Defence Plan 2009-2012, provided for the continuation of the successful quality reform of the Home Protection System, and underlined the crucial importance of the HV Departments maintaining a satisfactory level of training and practice. This year, none of the HV's reinforcement and follow-up forces, the so-called FO forces, are trained, a force that should have been 40,000 men. The 2010 budget states that only 20 pst. the strength shall be exercised. This is too bad. In its annual report, the Inspector-General of Heimevernett says that HV will not be able to endure several years with very limited resources. Then quality reform will stop. When the Heimeverten education centre was shut down, the intention was that training of command and crews should be ensured through the defenses, i.e. through the Army, the Maritime Defense and the Air Force, and through a separate HV training centre for command in Porsangermoen. It now turns out that the other defenses are failing to meet their obligations, and as expected, the number of HV soldiers is now decreasing for each year. This applies in particular to rural crews, as there are smaller forces to take off. Many people are concerned today that the old election language for HV, which was 'Over everything, always!', is now and then going to be here. It's a little bit of a pleasant development, which concerns us especially in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3689	The Government fails to fulfil its obligations when it does not grant enough defence to exercise it, to fly it, and to operate it adequately. Norway must have a current defence in the sea areas under its jurisdiction. Sovereignty enforcement is part of international law, and rights can be lost if they are not enforced. Unexplained conflicts of interest vis-à-vis a neighbouring power have also led to a clarity of signals. Absence or reduced operational defence capability gives wrong signals. Also, the Russian military activity in the airspace, which in a few years has reached the same level as during the Cold War, gives cause for concern. On several occasions, as many as 13-14 Russian bombers, tankers, fighters and surveillance aircraft have been on the wings of the Danish, Norwegian and British territory. These are coordinated actions with a strength such as the ability to perform a complex and resource-intensive operation. Russia has resumed its Soviet practice by sending its bombing aircraft on mission outside its own territory. State Secretary Barth Eide has characterized this as “the most comprehensive Russian aviation activity we have seen since the Cold War. There are larger formations, they fly more frequently and further west and have practiced the supply of strategic weapons, so it is a notable change.» I assume that Barth Eide is speaking on behalf of the Government also in this matter. When the government considers the threat picture to be more alarming than before, it is to be surprised that the defense is not put in a better position to solve vital problems. Could there be consideration for SV that conducts this? The right has proposed to strengthen the Maritime Defense and Air Force by 125 million. kr each. The level of exercise and activity would then be raised above a critical minimum and break the trend that is now leading to the development of competence and operational capacity from year to year. A defence with wear-based defence reduces the ability to perform complex operations. Sea defence and air defence have been brought into a situation where, despite newly acquired materials, they do not have enough to mann, train, practice and operate as required. We get to believe that our world corner does not have more serious conflicts than we can resolve peacefully. But Norway's ability to resist the pressure is based on both military and political cooperation with those closest to us. The relationship with NATO is fundamental, but with political pressure, it is also best to have a binding political community with Europe. In the Nordic region, which is partly divided in defence policy and foreign policy, the biggest single contribution to peace and stability in our part of the world would be Sweden and Finland joining NATO and Norway joining the EU. The red-green performance project, where the Workers' Party must compromise with SV, provides a weaker defence than required.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3708	Today, the Oslo students have named this year's dictator. Over 4,000 students at the University of Oslo have voted, and the sovereign wins – if we can call it that – became Iran’s top leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. That is a good way, I think, that the Oslo students have chosen to focus on repression, human rights and the fight that is now taking place, not least in the streets of Tehran, by courageous students and other demonstrators fighting for their legitimate freedom, a freedom struggle that I hope Norway supports differently. So some comments on the debate. I first need to say that I think there were two excellent posts that Laila Gustavsen and Tore Nordtun made about the Arctic and Svalbard. There were important things that were said. As usual, the Progress Party has received a lot of attention related to its cuts and amendments. We're used to that, and we also think it's positive that we get that attention. So no one has mentioned our significant increase – we think ourselves – of 100 million. kr for emergency aid and humanitarian aid. That's why I'm using the opportunity to mention it. The representative Tajik took hold of our cut in the aid directed at women. Now we have also addressed the situation of women in this debate. I would like to point out that having good intentions, that we all agree that women in many parts of the world, including in Norway, deserve an equivalent life and a better life, does not mean that with money to different countries and for different measures, they solve these challenges. When the Norwegian government chooses to support Nicaragua, at least I have understood that, among other things. is about the fact that the Nicaraguan government does not treat women in an equivalent and positive way, not least in relation to abortion legislation, which has been a theme here earlier today. So the Norwegian government is using the pressure to cut aid as an instrument. Thinking that more money automatically raises the status of women is, in my opinion, a faulty connection, but of course: these are so serious challenges that we are obliged to take them seriously. We're going to be the first to be involved in a constructive discussion about whether there's money that really solves the challenges. When we have an aid budget of more than DKK 18 billion, that does not mean that we have de-prioritized all the measures related to this, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3721	Nothing in Norwegian foreign policy can be more important than Norway’s relationship with the EU. No political association outside of population and government has a greater influence on Norway’s national policies than the EU. Nevertheless, the importance of the matter is inversely proportional to the attention of the matter in the public debate, and unfortunately also in this Chamber. Therefore, this small contribution to remind you that Norway is part of Europe, although Europe can hardly be said to be part of Norway. We've been outside the most important political community in our part of the world. So we have also said our part of the responsibility for the development of the continent of which we are part. In the name of real policy, it may be justified to sacrifice solidarity on the altar of self-determination, but it requires that we actually have ourselves, not that we pay others to do much of the job. My intention is not to compromise the excellence of the EEA Agreement, we agree on it, but to raise legitimate questions about the adequacy of the agreement. We are in practice a member of the EU, with four exceptions: fish, agriculture, the euro and participation. While many of the exporting industries want euro during these days, there should be a lack of participation of representatives in this room that concerns them. It should be concerned that significant parts of the framework conditions for Norwegian municipalities, Norwegian business, Norwegian judicial policy, Norwegian climate and environmental policy are not determined at Stortinget, but in Brussels. It should be a matter of concern that the Minister of Defence cannot attend meetings setting a framework for the use of Norwegian soldiers in EU operations. It should be concerned that Norway has drawn out its only national expert in the European Parliament, as set out in the only committee that we can be absolutely sure that, for the most part, is the EEA-relevant, namely the Internal Market Committee. It should be concerned that the EU's desire is increasingly to coordinate a common foreign and security policy, which in practice could form a strong block within the NATO Alliance and a clearer voice outside. For a country whose security policy is based on NATO membership and outside Europe, this is not necessarily a good development. Not least, it should be concerned that we still have debates and opinions on important EU directives which have been adopted several years earlier and which have actually sent us more to information than to voting. This is not my concern alone. Norway’s EU ambassador is also concerned about the adequacy of the EEA Agreement to cater for Norwegian interests in the face of a more dynamic and democratic EU. The EEA Agreement is good, but it is not good enough. What we get is the internal market in Europe, and that's a right we don't want to be apart, but what we pay is our democratic right to participate in Norway's development and future in important areas. As this is a budget debate, I would like to point out that it is a rigid price to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3736	My post has a special address for the Minister of Defence. I was expecting the Government in its Declaration of Accession – Soria Moria II – to concretely promote a collection of the ICT services of the Defence at Jørstadmoen, and I quote: « bring together, as far as possible, ICT resources in the Defence in line with the Long-Term Plan and Option S 318 [[...]] [[2007-2008]] Although this is not fully met, the more committed right-wing approach to a full set of ICT services, with the strengthening of ICT work that this would mean, is clear that it is a positive signal that we will follow with interest in the coming years. It is with concern I have noted that the defense itself later to build a parallel organization under the head of INI in Oslo. We had a rather heated debate on this in connection with the previous budget, where the Right's starting point was, and is, that the Government did not follow up what was a unanimous position from the Stortinge in connection with the long-term plan. I leave the question of the government's lack of follow-up in this matter at this crossroads, but must point out that the defence's handling of the matter appears to be a strong disregard for a clearly expressed political will. When the Government now attaches such importance to this matter that it is concrete in Soria Moria II, I take it as a signal that the Government will at least follow up with it, in our opinion, the second best, namely a collection ‘as far as possible’. The question that then arises is, of course, what ‘as far as possible’ really means. The term is rather non-obligatory and requires a deepening. I expect the government itself to have a sense of what this is going to be about, and that the Storting will be informed about what collection it's going to add up to, and at what rate this will happen. I hope the Council of State can comment on this today, if the occasion permits. If not, we'll see to it that there are several crossroads where we can discuss this issue, as far as this is a matter where there will be relatively much attention in the future. This is a matter where the government has a significant need to build trust. It requires clear objectives and political action. In the light of this case’s history, there will also be a political need to have a real insight into the follow-up and organisation of ICT work by the Defence Agency. It must be clear that, on the part of the Great Britain, we cannot accept the fact that we are organising around what is clearly expressed political objectives. The right-hand position is still a full collection of ICT services at Jørstadmoen, and a strengthening of them – and then we see what the Government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3760	I asked for the floor after hearing the statements by the representatives of Hadia Tajik and Anette Trettebergstien regarding women's rights in some less developed countries. What they are criticising is that the Progress Party has proposed to remove, or significantly reduce, the financial support to some such countries. They wonder about it. What I find strange is that the two actually call for the worst countries to be encouraged by direct gifts of money – or call it budget support – to those regimes that suppress. Instead, the Progress Party will make demands for democratic development and not least demands for progress on equality and women's rights, in the countries concerned, i.e. take money from the rulers. Then the most corrupt dictators weaken, and we can get a little bit further. At least I can't see any examples of dictators getting any better when you give them more money. Several countries — and some of them have been mentioned in the debate today — have long since come to the conclusion that this type of reaction should be made through a strong reduction or even elimination of subsidies to those countries that behave badly with regard to women’s rights and other human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3765	I didn't really intend to extend the debate, but since I was challenged so directly, I thought it might be okay to say something about three topics. One is Russian flights, which have shown a marked increase in the last three years. Today’s activity, however, is far from the activity of the Cold War. We have no reason to believe that this is specifically addressed to Norway. But we're going to follow it very closely. There is also reason to believe that the Russian defense has plans for training and training its forces and their materials. That it has also been hit by economic decline is probably also a fact, but perhaps to a lesser extent than what the Russian economy in general so far shows. With regard to the practice situation of Home Protection, I shall not say anything else in this round but that conversion, as I have said, requires priorities, and that we have had a smaller activity in the current year, is a fact. We're still adding up to the increased exercise of the forces next year. The so-called reinforcement and exercise strengths will exercise 20 pst., with an increased path towards the end of the long-term plan of 50 pst. Priority is given to intervention forces in this context, as is known. As far as Jørstadmoen is concerned, I would like to say that it is a theme that I have already been challenged on in the Questionnaire, and which I also have a lot of attention around. It is a strong environment on Jørstadmoen, which we will also assess how we can develop further. So it's true that there's a separate head of defence information infrastructure. I can also say this area, with the background of the technology industry, is an area where you have to look at both the virtual organisation – call it it – and the real location. Infrastructure is important to enable development from different locations to be carried out locally. I think Jørstadmoen is very well positioned to do a good job also in the continuation of the area for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3776	I also have no intention of extending the debate very much, but one of the interesting features of today's debate has been that the Progress Party is now coming in an offensive way and is telling them that they will grant NOK 18 billion for aid or development. This is a significant amount, and, as the Progress Party itself drew up, that is to say, an amount greater than Norway's overall assistance under the Bondevik Government, although the figures are not entirely comparable. It's a very large amount of money. However, in the debate I do not hear a single argument from the Progress Party for this. I hear a continuous series of reasons why no assistance should be given, while the party will give NOK 18 billion. I would just like to recommend that the next time we have a debate on this in Stortinget, the Progress Party should also come up with a good and clear reason why they will spend such a large amount of taxpayers' money for development efforts. The only country in which development is being promoted and defended is Afghanistan. I have a number of proposals for countries where women's liberation has come much further than in Afghanistan, if that is a desirable goal. And if corruption is the central thing, I just have to remind you that Afghanistan scores roughly on top of the list of all international corruption indices. Also there is a series of developing countries that have come much further in the fight against corruption than Afghanistan, if you want to bring something. I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Then we also have to hear why the party wants to spend so much, and what the positive arguments in the case are. Then the Progress Party has put forward some proposals that I would like to comment on. The party asks in proposal No. 2 on a ‘blacklist’ of assistance organisations that do not take the issue of corruption seriously. I see no need for such a blacklist. But I want to assure you here and now: if the Advancement Party can demonstrate a single Norwegian development organisation or voluntary organisation that does not take the corruption issue seriously, we will now turn back the cash flow to that organisation. We do not want to spend money on any Norwegian volunteer organisation that does not take this seriously. There is no need for a blacklist, but there is a need at the moment to stop the money from that organisation, and I am asking for help from the Progress Party to find out which organisations it might be. Then, cooperation with countries will be sought to take action to ‘reduce bureaucratic barriers to entrepreneurship, trade and innovation’. I think that is an excellent proposal, but I do not think the solution to it is a bureaucratic group in Norway. I think the solution to this is concrete cooperation with individual countries. Let's look at how we can do it in some of the countries where there is the most nutritional cooperation. Finally, in proposal No. 7 asks the Progress Party ‘Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for the greater involvement of industry in development policy’. This is a proposal that I think is positive. We've long assessed whether we should present a big deal about capital in development cooperation, and then this will be a natural part of it. I must remind you that this government has just put industry's efforts in development policy at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3793	No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. It was this with the intention of the Council of State, then. Morten Höglund, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3798	I'm not going to take the whole debate that Council of State Solheim is inviting to – I don't have time to – but just notice that we have a lot to debate in the future too. Now the Council of State expressed a number of positive things relating to some of our proposals, but I didn't realize if there were any of them that it was relevant for the Government to take seriously that we would choose to send them. We're going to come back to a dialogue on blacklisting organisations. It is a debate that is taking place internationally. Otherwise, I need to say that the Progress Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 13 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3807	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5-8. [[See pages 1025, 1040, 1042 and 1043]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3815	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3823	In the course of the debate, 28 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 9, by Mr Tord Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 11, by Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left proposals No. 12-21, by Mr Lien, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 22 and 23, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 24–26, by Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 27, by Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of the Left, proposal No. 28, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1–27 is included in the position on pages 83 and 84, while proposal No. 28 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 28, from the Right, in the course of the debate, it is turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended to the Government to convert the provision to allow only whole numerical characters and to continue established practices in which students are given a more precise feedback on their professional position.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3863	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how the responsibility of the institutions for the mental learning environment can be clarified by the law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3878	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–26, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines for the cultural school activities which ensure the social and professional profile of the offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3906	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to define Kristiansand as a press area in the cost framework calculation for student housing, at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2010.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3923	There is a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own case to extend the study aid to 11 months from the fall of 2010.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e3939	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12-21, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e4011	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess whether the student support system of private institutions should be modified so that a greater part of the additional loan of tuition fees can be converted into scholarships if the examination has been passed and it takes place within normal time.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e4026	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether the research institutes which receive basic appropriations and do not have acquisitions as their object may benefit from tax exemptions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e4041	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an indicative plan for the evaluation of teachers’ education, which can be used in all higher education schools throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e4057	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9211	In the course of the debate, there have been 14 proposals. It's proposal No 1, by Ine M. Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2-12, by Mr Høglund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-12 is included in the position on pages 76 to 82, while proposals Nos. 13 and 14 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9242	We shall then vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch an opportunity study related to the concept of ‘Sivile Peace Forces’.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 6 and 7 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9292	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9318	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in the context of the revised national budget, asks the Government to submit a review of the current rights of the veterans and to assess the limitation period for the establishment of a new entitlement for soldiers who have served foreign operations.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9361	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e9390	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame area 4 [[Austria]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e12722	The progress party has announced that they will go against the setting. The right, Christian People's Party and the left will now support the setting after their proposals have been dropped.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e14224	The progress party has announced that they will go against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e15965	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward six proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e16022	These proposals and the corresponding chapters of the setting are first voted on as an alternative. The other chapters are then added to expenditure and revenue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-09.ana.ud773e16990	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
