ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e35	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replication of the individual articles. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e44	At regular intervals, the Advance Party shall move the proposal to remove the opening hours. In the proposal under consideration today, the focus is on the so-called Brustad Bua. It is not only proposed to remove Brustad-bua, but to allow shops to stay open on all holidays and Sundays – nor any restrictions on the opening hours of Christmas, Easter and Pentecost. As late as 2003, today's opening time regulations were adopted in Stortinget. At the time, the Bondevik II government proposed this. The majority in Stortinget stressed the importance of setting limits for commercial activity on public holidays, and that therefore, as a general rule, it was to be closed on Sundays. The majority of the Committee cannot see that this need has changed particularly in the last five to six years. Nor can we see that there have been major problems in enforcing the legislation. In its comments and in its proposal, the Progress Party makes a pretty big number that there is a lot of bureaucracy here to enforce the legislation. This is directly wrong. There is little resources to enforce this rule. With the exception of some problems with the gardening centres, trade in goods is highly law-abiding and follows the rules to the point and point. Government parties and Christian People's Party are in this setting busy keeping Sunday as a different day. Commercial pressure on consumers is increasing, and we therefore believe it is important to protect consumers from buying pressure even on Sundays. The party seeking to make its proposal harmless by saying that the likelihood that many of the actors will further extend the opening hours is small. The last few years of problems with gardening centres are evidence that if an operator starts to keep open, the others feel pressured to follow up on competition. Ergo: The probability that shopping centres in populace streets will stay open on Sundays is great. Government parties are concerned that the greatest possible number of workers will be freed on Sundays and support the demands of the trade union movement. In addition, like the Christian People's Party and the Church, we are concerned that Sundays should be a different day – a day where people can have the opportunity to spend time with the family and cultivate their shared leisure interests. In the last few days, I have recorded that the Progress Party has raised a debate on the sneaking-up of the Norwegian society. If the Progress Party has a real commitment to both Norwegian and Christian values, they should withdraw this proposal that will make Sundays any shopping day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e65	We are discussing today the draft representative law of Karin S. Woldseth, Øyvind Korsberg and myself on amendments to Law No 24 February 1995. 12 on public holidays and holiday peace. We believe it is now time to phase out the last remainder of the opening hours in Norway, including the abolition of the so-called Brustad-bua. When I and many other members of the Greatness who are present here today grew up, society closed at 0 p.m. 16 a.m. and 4 p.m. 13 on Saturdays. In the cities they often had a long day on Thursday to at noon. At least 17 o'clock, or at least until 7 o'clock. 19th@item: inlistbox I don't remember much of this time except that there was a lot of stress to get the groceries in the house for those who were at work, and that the city center was popular in the afternoons and early evenings. During the 1980s, we had a more open society. The party was at the forefront of this development, together with the Right too, for freedom, transparency, flexibility and consumer choice. The closest final victory for those who wanted freedom was won as a result of the decision taken in the process of Inst. O. No 56 for 2002–2003, when the opening time adjustments in Norway were effectively removed from all days except on public holidays and on 1 May and 17 May. On these days an exception was made for, among others. to maintain the so-called Brustad-bua. An exception is also maintained for service stations of less than 150 m2, sales sites on campsites, etc. I live in a district with two such Brustad arches and also with two large gas stations, so I'm okay with the Sunday trade. But I still think it's a meaningless regime we have in the law: you can trade, but make sure you do it in a store that is more than 99 m2, e.g. one of 102 m2. The Progress Party believes that you have to approximate the theme of opening times from a principle point of view. We believe that supply and demand are better suited than legislation to regulate opening hours, and that this view should be based on legislation in this area. It is not appropriate for official inspectors unguided by measuring tapes to carry out hours of opening on weekends and on public holidays. Maintaining such special rules for special Christian holidays and for May 1 and 17, will require the maintenance of a bureaucratic system to check compliance with the rules. We have noticed that the majority of the committee as the main reason for maintaining today's rules is the desire to protect one day a week for commercial pressure, and that's where the mental short-circuit is complete. I cannot see that the commercial pressure should be significantly greater in a shop of 102 m2 than it is in a store of 99 m2. Experience with the lifting of restrictions on weekdays clearly demonstrates that there is a disappearing small number of Norwegian consumers, for example. wish to shop clothes, cars or groceries at 23 a.m. or 23 a.m. 03 at night. With this experience one must feel confident that there are very few Norwegian consumers who want to make large purchases on Sundays, Christmas Eve, Easter and on 1 and 17 May. The need to keep open on these days will therefore be minimal, and it would be unnecessary to have special rules in this area. Finally, I'm going to take an example from my own town on how wrong it can be with these rules. In my town in Drammen you have a Kiwi store that is about 160 m2, i.e. a relatively small grocery store. They have seen that there is a need to sell on Sundays, so they have had to rent the neighboring rooms that are less than 100 m2 and make their own Sunday shop to satisfy the needs of the buyers. Such adaptations are poor economics, poor industrial policies and also run counter to all sorts of common sense. With this I take our suggestions into account in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e112	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e115	At a time of failing purchasing power and uncertain crisis packages, perhaps particularly uncertain for small and medium-sized enterprises, it could be a good idea if we now took a settlement with a code that is obviously both anti-business and low-consumer friendly. The rules on opening hours are under pressure from consumers as well as from traders, and we see that there are difficult boundaries in understanding the legislation that creates artificial distinctions between different industries. When the plantation can stay open while Maxbo has to close the door on regular Sundays, we can quickly meet very understandable claims of distortion of competition and weakening the ability of the retail trade to meet the audience's wishes and expectations. The arguments for maintaining today's rules were mentioned, among other things. by the rapporteur-general, and she referred to LO's demand for strict rules in relation to permanent staff. There are understandable objections. But there are many professions where you also have to work on Sundays, and we believe that this must be a manageable question in relation to the existing contract work between the social partners. At a time of increasing unemployment and tougher competition in the market, it should not be the task of the State to limit the type of activity we are talking about here. We also know that a lot of those who work in these stores are students and schoolchildren. They need income-generating work alongside school and study. At a time when we get it tougher financially, there will be fewer such jobs, and we also think that this can be a positive input in this respect. If the retail trade sees itself as worthy of being open even on Sundays, it is not the state's business to prevent that from happening. Shops shall not be governed by legislation which acts unnecessarily without special reasons to defend it. Right has respect for the Christian cultural heritage and for the holiday peace. That is why we are not going as far as the Progress Party is going. We believe it is right to maintain legislation that sets some limits, but we therefore believe that there must be room for liberalisation that is about more liberal opening hours on regular Sundays, regular Sundays. In addition, we also agree with the Progress Party when it comes to the square metre number itself in Brustad-bua. We believe that within this legislation there will be good room to put restrictions on church time and on the special holidays associated with our festivals. The Progress Party said that they had taken the lead in the liberalisation process with regard to opening hours, and the representative Knudsen could remember that it was difficult when it was short opening time. Now I am a few years older than the representative Knudsen, so I also remember very well. But I also remember who helped us to actually do something about the opening hours in Oslo. It was all the Pakistani businessmen who spent the night in their shops to serve the customers who came and knocked on after the normal opening hours made it possible to keep them closed. This completely eroded the opening time system in Oslo and resulted in the right-wing state council Astrid Gjertsen actually doing some great grip. Oslo became after that a living city, in a completely different way, even in the afternoon time. I think it might also be a reflection, that an important and driving force in this was about the many small businesses that our new countrymen represented at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e132	I am pleased that the proposal of the Progress Party's representatives will not be approved today. It is because the Christian People's Party strongly disagrees with – as it says in the proposal here – that supply and demand are better suited than laws to regulate opening hours. If we had followed this line, we would have gotten very few conditions. Nor does the business itself want it. For what would that mean, and what would that lead to? Yes, all shops could keep up always – all Easter, all Pentecost, all shops could keep up all Christmas, Christmas Day and Christmas Day, and we could have had a full shopping round on May 17. All days would be the same - no exception. I think very few people want to have it that way. Full release is therefore not the way to go. We're not on the verge of a development that ends up keeping everyone open on Sundays. I think it's important that we focus on how we can protect this day as a different day, how we can protect the collective leisure time. The Christian People's Party agrees that there is a need for a review of Section 5 of the Holy Day Act, but we have a completely different starting point than the Advance Party, which will delete the entire paragraph. Instead of full release, there is probably a need for clearer restrictions, so that the intention of the laws is made clearer. Section 5 of the Act on Holidays and Holiday Peace, annexed in 2003, states that permanent outlets selling goods to consumers should be closed on Sundays. The revision of the laws led to a change in the rules of exception for the hall of flowers and plants on Sundays. The change was from ‘sales of flowers and plants’, as it had been in the old law, to ‘sales outlets selling flowers, plants and other gardening goods’. The ministry thought this was a continuation of the exception to the previous opening time law, but the change in wording has led to its opening for a wider scope of the exception. But in recent years, we have seen that individual chains and shops keep the outlets open for seven days a week. In reality, these outlets have a range of products that go far beyond selling plants and flowers. Most of these stores and shops compete with hardware stores, construction stores, gift shops and ordinary flower shops. This creates unequal conditions of competition, and it does it to undermine the law. This means the Christian People's Party that it has to be cleaned up. This matter was discussed at Stortinget in February 2008 in connection with a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party. At that time, both the government party and the state councillor Trond Giske were very clear that one did not want a slipping. The hold at the time was that one had to follow the situation carefully and possibly intervene if necessary. The Christian People's Party wants to take care of Sundays and holy days as other days. We want to protect collective leisure for the many who work in the service industry, and as we know, we have long working days in the other days of the week. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to make the laws clear by drawing up regulations that prevent circumvention of the opening time law. One thing is quite certain: Full release, as the Progress Party suggests, is very few who want it. Finally, I will include the Christian People's Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e155	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e158	In general, I believe that a regulation that is so easy to chatter about – as the Progress Party does – should be a warning to all of us all that simpler and clearer rules should be aimed at. There are two balances for society, as I see this. One is that we have to see the value of having some common friars. We all know – here in this room at least – that there is a very big difference between having holidays in Easter and Christmas and in the time around July 15th, and having holidays when the rest of the community can't give up a bit, and that leisure when you have the communal arena to have time off is another type of leisure time, a much more accomplished leisure time than just having a few days off while the whole community else is on a turbo ride. That's why the Left believes it's important to set aside some of these free zones in society. I don't think the fear of the LO parties that the freedom of workers is being removed is the same when you look at who is working at those times. There are groups that may not otherwise have entered the job market, and groups that see this as an opportunity to have greater freedom in other arenas, for example. school youth who then obtains greater economic freedom during their study period than they would otherwise have. However, it is also the case that we are not going to create a code that is as easy to grumble about as it is with Brustad-bua. And then I'm not just thinking about us with a certain size that's going to try to trade in these stores, but it also has to do with the fact that such rules often have comical effects. We in the Left have a great deal of faith that a greater local freedom of action might have ensured a lot of this, that we could then assume that our communities are very different from each other, that they have different populations and very different patterns of action as well. So maybe more local freedom of action in this area could have given better solutions. Otherwise, I agree that there will be a lot of excitement when you connect Pakistani and Right, and that the decoration that was in the code was very positive. I wonder if the Right believes that the Pakistani – Right combination is possible with the FrP rhetoric lately, sail if the Advance Party is not so afraid of other religions' admissions in terms of trade patterns. We believe that we need to go into this in a slightly more open way, make wise rules that are not so easy to harp on, and allow for greater local freedom for the organisation of this. With this, I would like to raise the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e173	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e176	In the previous ageing period, opening time was allowed to be removed, and it is now the holiday peace that determines the opening time limits. We were critical that time. We thought this would lead to greater pressure on the workers, but have lived by the conclusion that was drawn at the time. There are several reasons why we still want to have a law on holiday peace. Of course, the most important thing is that most families, people, in Norway want to have one day a week when they have a week off together. It's not just enough to have the same freedom as others, but it's a quality of life in itself to be free with the family. I find it strange that the Progress Party, which often adorns itself with the value of the family in Norway, does not see that the right and the need also includes those who the Progress Party wants to put to work on Sundays. The other reason is of course that a lot of people want Sundays, holidays, like a different day. Once again, it is very amazing that the Progress Party, which also adorns itself with a strong desire to take care of the Norwegian Christian cultural heritage, will eliminate what is perhaps one of the strongest features of the Christian cultural heritage, namely the holiday peace on Sundays. Understand that whoever wants to – it may be an expression that the Progress Party is about to slip away from this when it suits them. In order to meet the practical needs of people, there are some exceptions to the Holiday Peace Act. One of the exceptions concerns points of sale which essentially sell kiosk or groceries and which have a total sales surface not exceeding 100 m2. There has been a debate on the rules of exception. Nevertheless, we see that this rule clearly limits the number of shops that are open on public holidays, and that, despite this exception, the holiday peace is essentially maintained. That means you get a carton of milk or a bread at a 7-Eleven or a gas station, while the big stores and stores have not been open. I see that the left has a different approach. But I'd like to have this elaborated, because it's not easy to make these rules, and my impression is that today's legislation basically balances the different considerations. The debates on the exemption rules have shown a high level of commitment around the need to maintain one day a week as protected from commercial activity, not least for the sake of trade employees. On weekdays, opening hours have been suspended from 2003. However, once we have chosen to keep flexible opening times on weekdays, it is among other things. justified on the need to reduce the need to act on public holidays. Legislation is a whole. One of the exceptions that have been discussed is the exemption relating to outlets that essentially sell flowers, plants and other gardening items. There is no doubt that individual chains have used this derogation and weed the knit well far. My impression now is that one has realized a little of the seriousness, that at least one has not experienced any further slippage over the last few years, and that competitors also very closely follow the development of the industry that has flowers, plants and other gardening items as its most important range of products, and thus has Sunday open. The access of some types of outlets to keep Sunday open shall not be used for a general erosion of the provisions of the law and slippage in relation to the current situation. When the opening time adjustments in the Holiday Act have been up to debate recently, it gives a clear signal to the industry even if not to set the boundaries. There is no regular opening time check on weekends and holidays. The law is enforced by allowing the police to intervene against those who violate the rules of the Holiday Act, often based on tips. The Labour Inspectorate will decide whether working hours are in accordance with the Working Environment Act in the case of Sunday work. Where points of sale do not clearly satisfy the sales surface requirement, they shall be able to demonstrate, by tariff or other satisfactory means, the size of the sales surface. The documentation shall be available at the point of sale. The outlets themselves have to take care of this. My impression is that today's legislation is able to combine the different considerations. It's going to be interesting to see, if that's so wrong, that we get a civil majority, how the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will be able to reconcile their views on a common policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e203	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e208	Both the Council of State and Gunn Karin Gjul's contributions could be interpreted as meaning that it was a Christian choice to have one's own opening hours for Sundays. I think it's going to be relatively embarrassing and pointless when you make such a kind of argument. I find it difficult to see that it is especially much more Christian to shop in a store that is less than 99 m2 than it is to shop in one that is greater than 99 m2 – so this comes on the same day as and in particular just minutes after the Workers' Party has been at the head to take the Christian values away from the NRK poster. So here's a certain hollow. Another thing I registered in the state council's posts was that he threatened those who violated these "important" laws, with the police. I think it's an interesting priority if this is how we're going to send the police out to check out the product selection at the garden centres on Sundays when they don't have time to deal with violent, winning and drug crimes. It says a little bit about the priorities. It was really the representative Hareide who made me draw again. I registered that his post might as well have been kept 10–15 years ago. The claim was that this would lead to all shops being open all the time – 17 May, Sundays etc. – the exact same thing that was said in the 1980s and 1990s. Then they said it was going to be car shops that would be open by noon. 3 at night, the malls were going to be open all day. You bombed completely – 100 pst. Oh, my God! Then there was a small sentence in the posts of the representative Hareides that he himself might have drawn under, and that is that there are very few who want to trade at these times. Yeah, that's right. And then there's no need for us politicians to go in and override it. Otherwise, I record that the great fear of the Christian People's Party is that the garden centres keep open when people actually have time to work in the garden – on Sundays. I have to ask the question: what is the reason for the Christian People's Party's persecution of the garden centers? If it's the only activity the Christian People's Party will allow on a Sunday, is church, it's very fine. Then you get to say that, but it's actually part of us who use Sunday out in fresh air, for example. to have fun in our own garden and keep it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e229	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen is doing a good gardening work on Sunday. He'll have to keep doing that. But one of the main points of the Christian People's Party is to say that we don't believe that a full release in this area is right. The last few months have told us more clearly than ever that there is a need to manage the market. It is in the financial sector, and we believe it is in this area as well. Then the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen also took it up in his post if people want to act at this point. My point was that I don't think people want us to have it so that Sunday becomes like any other day. We have experience from other countries that have opened up for full shopping and full commercial pressure on Sunday. We see that then people follow. So there's a need here to control the market. It has shown the experience from other countries – and that is what the Christian People's Party believes in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e238	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e246	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e253	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right proposal No. 2 by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 3, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-24-lower.ana.ud2500e341	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
