ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e46	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e57	Here we go! I'll start today's debate with a quote: ‘ The public’s fear does not become a mild gift to anyone. [[...]] It is to be paid – as everything else – by ourselves, by our work and production. Every Norwegian citizen will be involved in the construction of the new scheme in everyday life.’ I've used the quotation in the past, and it's taken from the debate in Odelstinget on the introduction of genocide on the 9th and 10th of June 1966. So that time the debate went over two days, and the rapporteur had no less than 60 minutes of speaking time. It was then the case-rapporteur, Halfdan Hegtun, from whom I picked up the quotation. There was an important debate in the Odelstinget in 1966. The introduction of population protection from 1967 is one of the most important events in the development of Norway from poor societies to welfare societies. But today's debate is also important. 43 years later, we're changing the People's Security Act. It is also historical sus about Odelstinget today – and I expect that is why there are so many journalists in the hiking hall! Social security is a solidarity between groups and generations, where we set each other up at different times in life. Social security is the main element of the overall pension system in Norway. It should be in the future, too. There is broad agreement in the Storting. Public security should provide economic and social protection for all citizens, but it requires the system to be economically sustainable. Since its introduction in 1967, Norwegian society has changed on several points. Among other things, we go out to work later than before, we leave work earlier, and we live longer and longer. That's why we have to change parts of the age pension in the population. The basis for shared well-being is work and the income it generates for society. The labour force is the country's most important resource, and we must therefore set ourselves up to increase the total value of work over the coming years. That is the challenge for the Norwegian pension system. I have started this debate in Odelstinget with some of the same elements that I took up when, in 2007, the Stortinget, which was exactly two years ago, adopted a new system for earning and withdrawing old-age pensions. Comparisons in the United Kingdom in 2005 and 2007 have shown that there is broad consensus in the United Kingdom about the new age pension in the population. In 2007, Stortinget set out the new model for earning and withdrawing old-age pensions. Today, it is Odelsting’s job to adopt the legislative changes that need to be made to put the new system into place in 2007. In 2007, there was a broad settlement in the Stortinget between the three government parties, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, and the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left. It's also the same six games that are behind today's setting in Odelstinget. And I want to take the opportunity to praise the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left for the way they have been with the government parties in this important work of the two years that have passed. Since the adoption of the new system by the Stortinge in 2007, a wide-ranging consultation on what was decided by the Stortinge has been carried out by the Government. In important areas, practical and technical implementation of the new system had to be clarified, for example: how the new rules on retirement and retirement pensions are to be implemented, how the implementation of the so-called living adjustment adopted by the Stortinget is to be implemented, and also how pensions during payment are to be regulated in the new system. It is now proposed that the Grand total has decided to regulate pensions during payment with the average wage growth and price growth by regulating pensions with wage growth and then subtracting a fixed factor of 0,75 pst. Over time, regulating the pension with the average wage and price growth will give the same economic result as annual. That's why it becomes a simpler and more predictable system as Odelstinget now decides. With the decisions taken today in Odelstinget, and later in Lagtinget, we have a good and solid system for earning and withdrawing old age pensions – a system designed for future and future work patterns. It finally makes it easier to combine work and retirement, which has often been the theme of this pulpit. In the new system, it becomes possible for a person to combine a job and a pension exactly the way you want to, by making it possible to withdraw an old age pension gradually. One can take out 20, 40, 50, 60, 80 and, of course, 100 pst. pension. One can then choose, for example: to take out 40 pst. pension and work 60 pst. One can seam combine it as one will. And more importantly, the term ‘shortening’ can now be removed from all the glossaryes explaining the concept and regulation of the age pension in the population’s privacy. There will no longer be any rules for what you can earn in addition to the pension, it's completely free to the individual. Let me finally mention one topic, and that concerns the rules on how pensions during payment are to be regulated in the future. It's now being incorporated into the People's Security Act. So there will no longer be any annual decision on how to regulate pensions. In the new system it will be done by the King of State Council, as laid down in the new provision of the People's Security Act. However, I would like to stress that we are going to continue the right of discussion that pensioners and employees' organisations currently have. There may also be specificities in the new system to be taken into account before the annual regulation is established by the Council of State. Therefore, the pension organisations and the other stakeholder organisations, as today, should have discussions with the State. I recommend the setting of the strongest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e87	We dealt with, as the rapporteur was about, two years ago, exactly on 23 April 2007, the premise for the new old age pension. Today, as we know, we are dealing with the new law that will put part of this pension scheme into life from 2010, while other parts are deferred until 2011. Unfortunately, today's decision will mean a sharp reduction and withdrawal of people's pensions. The generations of the future will be far less retired than is the case with today's system. At my discretion, it will mean that the majority system in this room is in favour of, in many ways, a solid savings reform, where a number of reasons have been found, without being well documented, for why you have to drive and save people's pensions. I would like to point out that both the SSB and Steinar Juel in Nordea marketing have pointed out that the so-called pension gap has almost been removed, and that there is no need to make the savings that were due when this work was started. I think that's worth listening to, that's what you should take over. Therefore, it would also be important, I think, that we could have maintained today's system, with some improvements and adjustments, rather than introducing a solid savings reform for the Norwegian people. I don't think the Norwegian people in the future will find that the state is only getting richer and richer, while they themselves are getting less and less in retirement. That will be the result of the pension reform that the majority are currently implementing. Let me then get to illustrate it with some examples: Let's say we take a person who was born in 1963, for whom the pension reform will have full effect, who started working when he was 24, who is not entitled to the AFP, and who belongs to the low-income groups. The fourth year's calculations from Technical Calculations show that 17 pst. by the labour force, i.e. more than 415000 belong to the low income groups. The average for a low income group was an annual salary of NOK 284 600. Let's take the bus driver that belongs to the low-income group. He's not going to be able to take full advantage of the possibility of going off earlier than 67 years. If he is worn out and does not have the power to stand longer in work than until he is e.g. 62, 63, 64 or 65, he can't leave because he's earned too little annual pension. In other words, the amount of the pension plus the amount of the guarantee pension will be so small that the annual pension will be less than the amount of the guarantee pension, which means that he will be above that level, he will have to work until he is 67 years old. It will in many ways be the real workers, those with disabilities, and the chronically ill who will be the major losers in the new reform. Those who are healthy and do not have health problems, which can last a long time in the workplace, can naturally benefit from the new reform, because they can work for many more years. This means if you take the person I referred to, who was born in 1963, that by working from the age of 24 until the age of 67, i.e. for 43 years – three years longer than the full salary of today’s system – he will receive an annual pension of NOK 141 176, i.e. that he will have his annual pension reduced by almost NOK 20 000. In addition, new regulatory principles are introduced, which means that the state reduces its purchasing power for each year of retirement. It's the reality of the new pension system that the majority of people here care about. I also think it's interesting to note if we look at the number that will depend on a guarantee pension portfolio, that all those who belong to the low income groups, regardless of whether you're married or alone, earn such a small income pension that they have to have a supplement to the guarantee pension stock. This means that over 166 000 more economically active persons will need to supplement their pension with a guarantee pension stock than is the case today when the minimum pensioner is supplemented with a special supplement. I also think it is subtle that the new reform puts up such a great discrimination between single and married pensioners. We have, after all, in today's system also a curtailment of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners, a curtailment that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to and has previously suggested stepping down. There we came together with the Bondevik II government. It has unfortunately stopped. Still, even in today's system, married and cohabiting pensioners get an abbreviation of 15 pst. That abbreviation wants the Progress Party to be removed. We want everyone to get 100 pst. basic pension, regardless of marital status. But in the new system, it is also clear in the proposition, the guarantee pension stock and the guarantee pension share – and I think that is quite interesting – must be differentiated based on marital status. That means that if you're lonely, you're going to have to assume a lone minimum pension. If you are married, you should take the minimum retirement benefit for married people. Let's use the example of Kari and Trine. They were both born in 1963, they work with the same employer, they have the same salary, they do the same job, and they decide to quit and retire at the same time. Let's say they work in the processing industry and are worn out when they're 65. This will mean that they've been working for over 40 years. They're going to get a much lower pension than the current system's. In addition, because of the differentiation between married and cohabiting pensioners, Trine – if we say she is married and Kari is lonely – will lose 25 000 dollars annually in retirement only because she is married. Such a large impact would result in the differentiation in the guarantee pension stock. I wonder why this majority wants to discriminate against married and cohabiting pensioners even more. Why is it that the low pay is going to be the most discriminated against? In that case, my question goes to SV. What reasonable reason do they have for going in for a system that treats low-wage poisons then to the degrees that the new system adds up to? If you earn 400,000 kroner or more, you have earned such a large income pension stock that your annual pension is so large that you do not get into the problem of guarantee pension stock – no curtailment. You will see that those who have a high salary, regardless of their marital status, do not get a curtailment, while those who have a low salary get a curtailment – and the lower the salary you have, the greater the curtailment – according to marital status. I think it's unreasonable. I also think it is a little remarkable that the Christian People's Party has opted for a system that saw until the degrees discriminate against those pensioners who are married. I think that's a pity, but this just shows that we've got a system that's a solid savings reform. The consequences of the new pension reform – on which the rapporteur was not so clear – are going on in the future. We're going to go into a new regulatory principle where we're going to regulate relative to price growth minus a factor deduction of 0.75 pst. That means, as I said, you're going to reduce your purchasing power every year you're a retired person. Compared to today's system, when you keep a regulation according to salary trends, you will get worse. Let's do one example: you're going to be 5 G, about 5 G. 351,000 kroner, and you are entitled to the new AFP scheme that was negotiated last year's payroll, you work in the industry, started to work when you, for example. was 22 years old, has worked for 40 years, is really worn out, does not have the power to stand any longer in the workplace. It doesn't help to combine a part-time job with a pension if you don't have a working capacity that means you can combine it. Even with the new AFP scheme, which will also be a significant deterioration in relation to the AFP scheme currently in place, the person concerned will first have a much lower pension. In addition, if he has to leave when he is 62 years old, the new regulatory principles, provided he lives until he is 81 years old, will add up to NOK 231,000 of his pension. So much will the total purchasing power reduction be for this person in relation to maintaining today's regulatory system. I think that's probably proof that here the political majority is trying to show that you're giving with one hand, and then to withdraw half when he's retired, with the other hand. There is little doubt that the new system will be more complicated than today's system. We were to implement a new pension reform, based on the need to ensure a sustainable pension system and also to have a simpler system – it was said. Then we've got what goes on inheritance gain, that a so-called inheritance gain, which is to be calculated for each year's coal, is added to each year's standard of living. It will complicate this considerably. It'll actually make it so that so to speak no one has the opportunity to calculate their exact pension before you become a retired person. It should also be interesting to be able, in view of the challenges already faced by ICT in Nav, to put in place a good enough ICT system capable of taking all these complex factors into account and getting into a simple and straightforward calculation system. It remains to be seen. I hope for all the country's pensioners that there will be no problem. Then we'll see when we get to 2010 or 2011 if there's any problem or not. I am very pleased that the Progress Party has not been involved in the new savings reform that will affect all pensioners, both those who become pensioners in the future and those who are pensioners today, with the new regulatory principles. I am pleased that the Advance Party is the only party in this house that still believes and is crystal clear that pension is an earned right, a right that should follow the individual, and that the individual should retain. I am therefore pleased that we are going in to continue today's system, and that the Progress Party as the only party on the Stortinget is so clear and clear about it. We are therefore promoting a proposal to maintain today's system, with some improvements and adjustments. That means we want to remove the abbreviation of the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. We will increase the pension benefit from 3 to 3.5 pension points for unpaid care. We want to introduce service provision for earned protection obligations, and put it into the system we have today. We remove the minimum pension trap — which the Prime Minister has also been concerned about — by keeping a portion of the pension you have earned to those who have worked. It is also possible to phase into today's system, without having a big, new and complicated reform. We also want to increase the minimum pension for all the minimum pensioners up to 2 G. This is some of what we're proposing. At the same time, we are naturally committed to ensuring that the future pension system, where today's system remains, must mean that so-called negative effects are eliminated, and that good arrangements are found to get rid of the problem, which unfortunately also affects a good number of pensioners. I noticed – in conclusion – that the Advocate General started with a quotation from the time people were treated in 1966. I also noticed that the case rapporteur said that the public interest is not a mild gift from the state, but that is something we have to pay ourselves. Yes, with the new system you have to pay more to get less. I noticed that the case rapporteur said that when we got the public opinion in place, we went from a poor society to a welfare society. In view of the fact that the future guarantee pension is also to be fully adjusted in life, I am afraid that new gaps in the pension system and new challenges will arise in the future, especially those that have been far from working life – chronically ill, people with disabilities or who have worked part-time for some years – that will be severely affected by the new system, which reduces their pension significantly. Perhaps the new system will lead to the removal of the minimum pension traps, but perhaps you will create new traps, namely a poverty trap, as Bjørgulf Claussen, professor of social security medicine, said earlier when dealing with the landfill notification for two years ago. I think he has a significant point with the statements he made at the time, and with the considerations he had around the pension scheme at the time. With this I mention our proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e133	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e136	The rapporteur, Myrli, has in a neat and straightforward way explained the main points of the position and also set a little historical perspective on it, from the origins of popular fear in the 1960s, when we had a bourgeois government. There is therefore no need to go very deeply into the setting, as there is such a broad consensus based on the two previous settlements. I refer you here to the statements made by the President-in-Office. I am also not going to take a rematch on individual elements of the pension reform, which I would like to see different, because the train has gone, at least in this case. But there is one aspect that I want to pay a little extra attention to in this debate, and it is the occupational pension schemes – primarily the occupational pension schemes in the private sector. For public sector occupational pension schemes, negotiations are now under way in the preparation of wages and salaries, and I will not in any way tread into that hive. When, over several years, the political system, enlargement and government, have worked so hard to bring about a reform of popular security, there is a danger that one does not see the forest for just trees, as it says – that one does not see that the pension system of the future consists of both population and occupational pension systems, and where the occupational pension schemes form an important part of the overall pension system. These two main pillars of the future pension system must work together and be a whole. During the previous large-scale period, under the Bondevik II government, it was statutory that all employers, including in the private sector, were obliged to have an occupational pension scheme for their employees. This was an important social reform that ensured that even workers who had been without a occupational pension scheme by then would get it – and we talked about hundreds of thousands of workers. That's why it's completely wrong to just look at the population's fear and the pension from the people's fear in isolation. One has to see these two main pillars together, as a whole that has to work together. In the proposition that we are now dealing with, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Ministry of Finance is now seeking to ask the Banking Law Commission to assess adjustments to the tax-eligible occupational pension schemes in the private sector following the submission of this proposal.’ And this proposition we're now dealing with was presented on February 13th this year. It goes on to say: ‘The work will be undertaken with a view to bringing the legislative changes, including the necessary transitional rules, into force on 1 January 2011, i.e. at the same time as the flexible withdrawal of old-age pension in the population’s security.’;» The reform of pensions, which is finally adopted today, involves changes for all employees and enterprises. This also requires complex and very extensive changes. I am very concerned, on behalf of the Right, about the fact that the adaptation of the private occupational pension legislation has not yet started. Here we are talking about very important issues for all workers and businesses in the private sector, more specifically about 1 500 000 workers. This means that the time is at best very short, and in the worst case we will experience chaos on 1 January 2011, when the new population is introduced, because this is not in place. Then the pension reform will have the worst start and discredit the entire pension reform. We must avoid this at all costs. Then it's just the time and the way. Too much valuable time has already been lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e164	Now when US pensioners have to look for a job at McDonald's because they've lost their pension, I think we're all happy here that we have a Norwegian people's interest, and that it's funded by a model where both the one and other welfare goods are funded so that we're safe now that the financial crisis is rolling over us. We have a general and public co-financed pension system. When we look at pension schemes in the future, I want to draw attention to two debates here in the hall yesterday. Then we discussed the perspective message and climate action. Both of those debates were about how we have to stand in order for the future to be safe and our pension to be safe, for this is about something more than a pension system. It's about being able to control the financial markets so that they don't break our economy, that we can deal with climate change so that it becomes possible to live, and that we can manage the most important resource we have, namely the labour force, so that people can get work that they can live on when they're working, and that they can earn pension funds that make them get a good pension. It's also about doing things to motivate people to work in the care and care sectors of an ageing population. So there are major changes in the future labour market that we need to take responsibility for, for the new pension system to work well for people. There is no doubt that the new pension system is so interconnected that if you can work for a long time, and either wait a long time to take out a pension or combine pensions and social security, you have a good payout in this system. It's also been the purpose of it, that it should invite people to work more. There has been an open intention of the whole reform. This means that we have to take a heavy responsibility for the functioning of the labour market so that people have opportunities to do so. It's about full time and part time for women. It's about a labour market that doesn't take health away from people. It's about a labour market that invites and includes people with disabilities, so they also have the opportunity to work and earn pensions. The choice to work longer to get better pensions and get back to work if you have been unlucky and lost your job will be an important task for political authorities to contribute to. In the new system, being able to go off at 62 years is something completely new. I hear someone say that now it's getting harder. But it hasn't at all been possible in the old system of popular protection. Those who have had such an opportunity are those who have been subject to an AFP agreement. Now everyone is given the opportunity to do that. But there are limitations in that way that you must have earned so much that you have reached the level of a guarantee pension, or the new minimum pension, when you are 67 years old. Of course, there are some limitations to who can go off. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that adjustments must also be made to the disability benefit relating to this. Adjustments must be made in such a way that people who are worn out and who are not covered by the AFP scheme must be able to have a disability benefit to which they can go. Otherwise, there is no guarantee of income at all, and it is not possible to accept it. So it's important to draw attention to the great investigation work that was presented last week by the Distribution Committee, which points out that one of the most important things we can do for people to actually get a job and keep a job is to bet on more training and skills building in people with low skills. In the future, the labour market will demand very little unskilled labour, it will demand more skilled and highly skilled labour, and then we will have to put more effort into giving people that skills so that they can get a good pension. One of the elements that I'm most pleased to have come into place now is that day-careers are now going to receive pension equivalent to previous income up to 7.1 G. It's very important, because you're going down in income when you go over to a day's allowance, and it could affect your pension performance in the future. The Ministry shall further investigate issues of service provision for those who are involuntarily part-time and do not receive a daily allowance. It is also incredibly important, because being involuntarily involved in part-time work results in losses of both salary here and now and pension credits in the future. It's important that we have a system that captures it in a better way than today, so I'm looking forward to seeing the future calculations. Then it's the lifestyle adjustment that's the most important thing to reduce expenditure in this system. I think I have to admit that I think that system is quite complicated, and I think people will think so too. Thinking that the system we're adopting right now is going to be a lot easier for people who are going to get involved in it, I'm a little bit unsure. But what's easier for people to understand, and which I think is the most important way to get more people to work, is that you can combine retirement and income. It's a combination that's easy to understand, and where one even earns a new pension while one withdraws a pension, and so gets adjusted the pension in the future. Just those elements I think are simple to understand, and I think they'll be effective. When it comes to the lifestyle adjustment, I think it'll be inconclusive to people. I think the system's going to be complicated. Especially because we are going to have to live with transitional arrangements between the old and the new system for several years, it will probably be difficult for us all to have a good overview of the different elements of this pension system, fully understand how it will turn out and make reasonable choices based on it. As the representative Engeset was involved in his contribution, this is the main cornerstone of our entire pension system. Then we have other retirement benefits as well as this. We have introduced compulsory occupational pension, which everyone who is currently in work is entitled to. Large parts of the workforce are also covered by public occupational pensions. Many are also covered by a contractual pension. The whole thing of this is I'm absolutely convinced that is going to be very good for a lot of people, but it's important that you see all the elements in context. I also believe that we have a special responsibility in the future for those people who have little benefit from the compulsory occupational pension that we are now introducing, i.e. those who have been involuntarily marginally linked to the labour market. The challenges for us in the future are to secure these people an income they can live with. And then there will be people who are heavily dependent on public services. That means that we have to take care of our economy so that we can afford the large increases we're going to see in the care sector in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e185	Several speakers have already argued for the majority position. Of course, what has been said on behalf of the rapporteur on behalf of the majority, we are fully committed to. The Christian People's Party is one of those parties that, from the start of the Commission's work, has seen the importance both of implementing a pension reform and of reaching a broad and stable political decision on our future pension system. We are pleased that such a majority has been in place both in 2005, 2007 and now in 2009. It provides both current and future pensioners with security that non-politically changing wins themselves will rock the pension system. The proposed legislative changes today are a natural consequence of the agreement concluded in March 2007 between the current and the former government parties on the pension scheme. This way, we might just be able to play the posts from then on. Since there is nothing significant new since then, I am not going to spend time commenting on all the parts of the proposal. However, I would like to reiterate that we in the Christian People's Party are particularly pleased that the legislation on the vesting of pension rights in the social security system for unpaid care responsibility is being extended in time, with effect from 1992. The Progress Party has today argued in its submissions as to why they are outside the pension agreement. I have noticed that the party in the vote refers to the opinions of various pension experts and economists back to 2007 and 2008 in support of the fact that we do not really need a pension reform. In an intervention by one of these, the Nordea chief economist, in May 2008, the whole argument is based on the fact that the oil price at that time was likely to stay at that level for many years to come, and that it would generate large revenues that it was not expected to do. Since then, the oil price has fallen by about 50 pst. It illustrates, however, that investing in persistently high oil prices as a basis for the Norwegian pension system is a highly uncertain affair. We need a system that in itself stimulates participation. Work has been — and remains — the main pillar of a secure pension system. So we know that for most of the working population, the population is only part of the total pension scheme. It is the sum of social security and occupational pension that is relevant for individuals when choosing between pension and employment. Therefore, the adaptation of occupational pension schemes to the intention behind the pension reform has been a crucial theme. There is an important fight over public occupational retirement provision in these days. It is essential that the objectives of the pension reform on the interrelationship between employment participation and retirement be respected in what is finally agreed. We'll get back to that in less than that long. Today, there is popular fear that is the theme, and, as I have said, the Christian People's Party has been rocking behind the conciliation and majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e204	It must be allowed to call this day a brand day. A very broad majority gathers around a new and forward-looking pension system. Following the unanimous adoption of the Borten government, which has helped to secure the age of the country’s inhabitants for more than 40 years, the new pension system will contribute to an even better distribution and fairness and stability for decades to come. The centre party was never in doubt about the need for a pension reform. We have strongly wanted to contribute to a broad majority to ensure that the pension system principles will have a long life span. People have to feel safe about the economy of old age, even if the majority of people change colors. I am particularly pleased that the pension model has received a much better distribution profile than the one we started up with. Many with medium and lower incomes will be better off than with today's popular fears. In order to achieve this, it has been necessary to set the performance ceiling as low as 7.1 G. The new pension model will provide supplementary pension from the first dollar. This means that we will have far fewer minimum pensioners than with today's system, where many pay social security contributions in an entirely active life and still become minimum pensioners. For the Centre Party, it is important that this floor plan be increased and that the guarantee pension be adjusted in the same way as the salary increase and adjusted for the life of 67-year-olds. The development of the Pension Fund in the last year underlines the importance of introducing principles that ensure a robust, sustainable system as life expectancy continues to grow. We have learned that enormous oil wealth is an unsafe basis for financing future pensions. Once again, we have to state that it is the people's knowledge and labour force that is the sovereign most important part of national wealth. Therefore, it is so important that the pension reform provides strong incentives for more people to continue in the labour market. It is important, of course, that the principle of working for all who can be consistently followed also in the remaining adjustments to public service pension, special age limits and disability pension. I would like to highlight in particular how important it is for pensioners to cut their pensions, and at the same time earn a pension, if they work alongside them. It has been very unfortunate that many broken pensioners have been penalised financially for working, or that they have been tempted to work black. The Centre Party has participated in all negotiations on the pension reform on two main points: helping a broad majority to safeguard the interests of low pay, women and self-employed people We admit that we have not reached all of our requirements. I am surprised that we have not received support for our demand for retroactive power in terms of care generation before 1992. Women born in the 1950s who have had long-term care work will now end up as minimum pensioners after a battle effort. It's just sad. We are also disappointed that the 2005 decision to allow low incomes to go away with retirement from 62 years of age has been followed up so poorly. We want the «slitters» to be able to choose to retire at 62 years rather than with disability benefits. We have no doubt that there are many ‘wearing out’ people among those who have had part-time work, or who have had low incomes, who cannot now get a worthy retirement end from 62 years. It's a fact that women get very bad out here. According to the Ministry's forecasts, only a quarter of women without the AFP who turn 62 in 2011 can retire from full retirement, compared with 87 pst. of the men. It's not quite fair considering all the women who have worked a long life! Retirement reform has been under way for a long time. Unusual numbers have participated in the public debate. It is important that the principles now adopted last for a long time, so that people can see that pension income is predictable and safe. Important elements of the overall pension scheme remain. It's the totality, as it's experienced by ordinary people, who decide whether what we're now deciding is going to have a long life span. The centre party will ring the principles and at the same time listen to those who feel that parts of the system turn out unfairly. Minor elements must be adjustable at a later date. Finally, I would like to notify you of a clear reservation from the Center Party. The proposition states that the introduction of a pension contribution to fund the old-age pension is to be investigated. The centre party has been strongly opposed to this throughout the process and everything else that can make it easier for those who want changes that could eventually lead to a privatisation of popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e235	We are facing a continuation of the agreement we made in 2007. Of course, I agree with the rapporteur on what he explained well in his statement today. What is interesting is that in the introduction he referred to Halfdan Hegtun – a good left-wing man 43 years ago – which shows that the Left also took responsibility at the time, as we do today. I don't think I'm going to use my post to say anything about what was the primary positions when we went into this. I think that would be inexorable, even if at the time we had hoped that the students would come out more favourable than the result. The reform involves a wide-ranging shift in the population's age pension from 2011 to meet the expected ageing of the population according to the principle of earning a living. Pensions on income shall be made up throughout the working life. Low-earning persons are guaranteed a guarantee pension according to the model from today's minimum pension. Contracting partners have stressed a broad consensus in order to ensure the opening-up and predictability of such a comprehensive reform. The proposal includes new rules on retirement pensions and flexible retirement pensions. It's been a long and thorough process. There will, of course, be a need for transitional rules. Therefore, new generation rules are gradually introduced for year-on-year coals between 1954 and 1962. I want to refer to the pension agreement that we were part of, in 2007. Otherwise, I am happy that everyone who meets the requirements for service provision will receive a minimum pension equivalent to a income of 4.5 G against 4 G in today's system. I would like to point out that in the new performance model with which every year counts, pension provision in the care sector will always have a bearing on pension measurement, and I think it is a clear improvement compared to today's system. Several have indicated that the total cost of old-age pensions in 2050 with what we are adopting today will be slightly less. While we are getting older, it is clear that some of the challenge ahead is – as the rapporteur said, he referred to Hegtun – that we are paying ourselves. Then we also have to have a good deal about this. I believe that regardless of whether anyone can point out that there are any shortcomings, the decision we are making today is absolutely necessary. So one can of course discuss whether this will be of the same duration as the previous one. There's probably none of us able to predict per. today. But I think it's an important and correct decision we're making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e252	Today, Odelstinget is dealing with proposals for a new age pension in the population. The proposal is a result of a long process that started with the government’s Stollenberg I lowered the Pension Commission in 2001. The size decision was taken on the basis of broad pension agreements in 2005 and 2007. The majority consisted in 2007 of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposals under consideration today are based on these similarities and a comprehensive consultation round in 2008. The pension system faces major challenges as a result of increasing life expectancy and older people in relation to working life. Pension reform is an answer to these challenges. It introduces life expectancy adjustment, which means that we have to work a little bit longer for the same pension when we live longer. Lifetime adjustment and re-regulation of pensions are the main measures to make popular protection sustainable. We're getting new rules for earning a pension, so every year counts. Pension benefits in respect of care and unemployment are improved and all earners receive a pension in addition to the minimum pension. Overall, the distribution profile is good. It is a major welfare reform that the old age pension can be taken out flexibly from the age of 62 and combined with work without curtailment. It facilitates a flexible and gradual transition from work to retirement. A new old-age pension motivates work by providing good pay-out in the form of an increased pension for a year longer in work. The legislative proposals relate to the pillar of the future pension system. The government, in cooperation with the social partners, has set up a new private sector AFP scheme to support the reform of pensions. AFP and occupational retirement provision in the public sector are known as part of the annual salary line. The government is also working on adapting the laws on occupational retirement provision in the private sector, as well as on proposals for changes to the other legislation on social security, including disability pensions. The new pension system provides increased options, and it is important that individuals receive good information about rights and opportunities. Nav is given a central task here and will provide information and guidance through self-service solutions and agencies. I am pleased that a broad majority on the Stortinget are behind the pension reform. As long as the Progress Party is against it. The lot previously entered for flat pension to all, but now proposes to keep today's system, with some changes that increase costs. The Progress Party has previously been in favour of life expectancy adjustment. In 2005, Siv Jensen stated: ‘We also agree that a split is introduced, simply because any pension scheme needs to be corrected for increasing life expectancy in the population.’ That's very well said. However, in the adjustment, the party opposes lifestyle adjustment and also opposes new regulation of pensions. The proposal of the party increases pension expenditure in addition to that resulting from the continuation of the current retirement pension. The party has no proposals for a more sustainable system as the population's life expectancy increases. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik stated in the debate on the 2005 pension agreement: ‘The pension agreement shows that the majority of the Grand Duchy has the ability and the will to think in the long term also in an election year. I hope and believe that the will to find sensible solutions will continue when the specific legislation is due in due time." The settings of the day indicate that they were correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e286	I have two questions for the council. Why does the Council of State think it would be right to discriminate against married pensioners who have low wages, versus highly paid married pensioners? Then I'm talking about a married couple who have about 300,000 kroner, who will get a much worse pension because they're married, versus a married couple who make over 400,000 kroner, who won't get any curtailment because they're married. What's the rationale behind that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e293	The reason is that in today's minimum pension system there is coordination between spouses, so that spouses get less than those who are single. Similarly, there will be a guarantee pension in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e298	Today, we are adopting the legislation for a new age pension in the social security system. At the same time, much remains until the whole of the new pension system is in place. The government announces that the adaptation of occupational pension schemes in the private sector will start ‘after this proposition has been made’ — it was three months ago. Nothing has been done so far, and the time until implementation of the reform on 1 January 2011 is beginning to be very short, if the changes here could be implemented in coordination with the changes in public confidence. This applies, inter alia, to: the possibility of flexible withdrawal of pensions from these schemes, while opening up such opportunities in public security and public sector schemes. Can the Council confirm the initiation of this investigation before the summer holiday and the involvement of social and insurance stakeholders?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e305	In my post, I underlined that there is a lot, in addition to the people's welfare itself, that should be in place to have the future pension system in place, and also stressed that the government is working on exactly what the representative is asking for, so I can assure him that. I would just like to stress that when the contracting parties also agreed that the right date for the implementation of the whole system would be 1 January 2011, it was precisely some of the reasons that it was through the consultation in 2008 – in particular. from private, but also from public, pension funds — pointed to the need to adapt their system to the new system of social security. When we now adopt the basic plan of the new pension system, it is these investigations and clarifications in relation to the supplementary schemes that should be based on the future. It'll be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e312	The rapporteur said that we can now delete the concept of 'coordination' from the pension. We know that this will happen in the future, which is supported by the Christian People's Party. But what about today's 69-year-olds? Do they have to wait for new pension reform to come into force — or can the Council of State give a positive signal to the age group here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e317	As you know, the last two state budgets have taken action in relation to the 67-year-olds and the 68-year-olds, one and one year olds. I'm not going to shoot what's going on with the 69-year-olds in relation to the next year's government budget, but I guess I can say it that I'm not completely familiar with the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e322	I'll show you my last line. I am painfully aware that the result will be that way, based on the calculation methods underlying the new pension reform. But my question, which the Council of State did not answer, was: Why is it reasonable to have that kind of discrimination, where married low pay is almost discriminated against in relation to married high pay? What is the motive for having a system that should discriminate like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e327	Some of the benefits of entering the pension scheme for which a clear majority is involved, compared with the pension scheme for which the representative Eriksson is in favour, are precisely that those who are low-paid are the ones who earn it. Those who earn on the new pension scheme in relation to the position of the Progress Party are people who have worked so far and paid for the pension and have not got anything out again. Those who serve on this are people who have been in long careers – I know some of them, those who Eriksson called the "slitters" – and who have had a steady income throughout their lives. They come out much better because now there's an all-year rule instead of a best-year rule. One of the characteristics of this pension reform is that those who earn little and so far have not received anything in addition. Another feature is that those who have had long, hard-working careers come out better than those who have had a steep career and who have come out better in existing pension systems. It is the characteristic of the pension scheme, and it thus strengthens those who have the lowest income as the basis for pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e332	No one else has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e335	I just want to make some comments about the attitude of the Progress Party in the matter. From the pulpit here it was said from the Progress Party that pension reform leads to the state becoming richer, and that people get less in retirement. So that's wrong. Overall, people get more than today, but less than that would be without change. But we're talking about reducing the growth in pension expenditure from 6 pst. to 15 pst. of GDP, and to reduce it from 6 pst. to 12 pst. GDP. So it's going to be more, and it's going to be a GDP that you're expected to be larger than today. Just a little comment on that with the regulatory principles: although there is some form of tightening there, regulatory principles ensure a positive real development of current pensions, even in the future. Nor do I agree that in the future it will be more difficult to calculate your own pension than today. It is easier in a new system where one has a holding divided by the number of years than in the current system of pension credits and rates that even vary over the life cycle. The only thing that might be a little uncomfortable is that in the future we get a little bad letter in the post from Nav when we turn 61, which says how much time we have left – but I think we'll be able to live with it. The party of progress has gone a long way in the view of retirement, from being all the minimum pensioners and having them in addition to that, would be drawn in the form of their own insurance – to their position today, where they do not want changes in today’s system. That shift was to the extent announced by the representative Robert Eriksson in an earlier debate here – I think it was in connection with the social security settlement – that one had chosen to put the old pension scheme a little aside, since one had discovered that it was not quite popular out there among people. It is permissible to change our position, to think that we should push on the problems of the next generation of politicians and the next generation of working people, but especially responsible it is not. With the arrangement of the Progress Party, we get a sharp tightening of taxes for people most, usually what the Progress Party fears most of all, such a sharp increase that it won't go, that the pension system can risk collapsing. Then we know who is being hit, and there are ordinary people who can't afford to secure themselves on all farms and edges through their own savings or pension savings. One can also choose the other variant — cut off from other welfare schemes to meet the pension obligations in the future: more to pensions, less to care, health and school. I think that the Progress Party, in the name of honesty, should draw the whole picture of its future welfare state, not just free to today's pensioners with ways of saying it as a know-how echoes there. Today's pensioners will not be affected by this in any case. It's also the younger ones than us sitting in the hall here today, who are going to get the "dream" that the Progress Party adds up to. We're going to get all the benefits, if we don't get nurturing, and it can happen quickly that we can get to be. And then the Progress Party says that we can just add up to a little bit more economic growth, and everything solves. I think that's easy. It's to balance with money you don't have. It's a risk sport. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is also an expectation in the pension agreement of increasing growth, increasing GDP, as a result of people choosing to work more, because it is going to be easier to combine work and social security. But the Progress Party is standing here denying the facts. There is no need for change, it is said. And if that's what we know, it's that today's system is not sustainable. Those we're talking about are already born. They live longer than we assumed just a short time ago. And then the Progress Party uses various so-called experts for income and its vision. It's referred to someone named Harald Engelstad, who in a way is the guarantor that the calculation of the Advance Party will go up in the future. I checked him a little bit, so he is an advisor in personal pension calculations. I doubt whether I will choose to have confidence that his predictions about a complete system and our future welfare hold. In the end, I could just imagine showing that our committee has been traveling. We've been to the United Kingdom. The fraction I belong to has been in Hungary. What was a common response to us from the parliamentarians there was: so lucky you are who do not get such a wild pension debate in an election year! The big deal is something that everyone envys us. The United Kingdom is pushing the problem. In Hungary, one overwhelms each other, and what one knows, is that no one will manage to keep those promises. And we know that the Progress Party will not either. There's going to be a real crowd for any civil cooperation in the next period if you're going to get this going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e351	My good colleague, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, said in my previous post that we could now delete the term ‘coordination’ from the glossary. I'm pretty sure I didn't say that, and if I said that, I'll use the opportunity now to say what I meant. My whole point was that the term ‘shortening’ could be deleted from the glossary, and abbreviation is quite different from coordination. Both are contentious elements of the current pension system, but my point was that today's complex legislation on the shortening of pensions against labour income is being abandoned in the new system, and thus we can delete the term «shortening». We may also need coordination in the new system, and that concept is linked to the coordination of public service pensions against the benefits of public interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e358	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e361	With respect to report to the representative Christoffersen: I do not know if she herself heard what she said. She said that everyone would get more than today, but less than you would have got with today's system without changes. That just means you won't get any more, you'll get less. And you can't get any more when you're going to reduce the cost by 20 pst. – it says itself. So to the Council of State: I don't doubt that the Council of State knows many so-called troublemakers. Although I am young, I also know a lot of so-called troublemakers, but I don't think this debate should be used to account for how many people you know, because that's not the point. The point is, and will be – it has been stated by the Department itself in letters to the undersigned – the following: The average age for leaving the labour force is 24 years, and you have to work for over 43 years with a income below NOK 330000 to get more than after today’s system, i.e. That you've passed 67 years. If you get an AFP supplement, based on the paycheck that was given last year, someone who was born in 1963 will get a much lower AFP pension than if you keep today's popular interest, with today's AFP. He'll most likely be under tens of thousands. If he's a real laborer and doesn't have the power to stand longer in work than until he's 62 years old, he won't get any more. He'll get less. That would result in that the only way he could get significantly more on, was with disability. In one case we dealt with in the Storting today, one of the objectives was more in work and less in social security. Why, then, add up to a system that allows it to actually increase the pressure on disability? You'll see that that's what's going to happen if you read the proposition carefully and look at the different computational examples. I have sent myself a letter to the department to be 100 pst. sure of how to calculate the future AFP for one born in 1963. It was at the time when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was appointed as State Council, after the salary settlement last year. We got that calculation presented, and we also got confirmation that the formula that we based on, we had understood correctly. Then I think it's strange that it's being said here in the hall that it's the opposite that's going to happen. And then finally, the Council of State says that you remove the minimum pension trap by keeping a little more in retirement – that it's something that the Progress Party doesn't want. If the Council of State reads it carefully, one of the changes we are making in today’s system – which the Progress Party wants – is to keep more of its income. So what the State Council said in its previous article is a positive error in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e372	I'm going to read the minutes from today's debate and check whether I said the same thing in the first post that I'm saying now. But I'm almost 100 pst. Make sure it is. What I said was that the point is that one should not reduce pension costs in relation to current expenditure. One shall reduce the growth in future costs of old-age pensions — from today’s 6 pst. of GDP and up to 15 pst. of GDP, without changes, down to an increase from 6 pst. Today until 12 pst. of GDP in the future. Then we're talking about a bigger GDP than what we're talking about today, because people are going to work more on the more flexible system. What I said was that we collectively get more than today, but less than what it would be without change. And then we can go in and discuss type cases -- we can find type cases for most of what we want. It depends on how we construct them. What's important is how this will really be, and it's also explained both in the proposition and in the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e379	I fully agree with those who have said that this is a historic day. It is a historic day because there is such a wide majority behind a pension settlement – a solid starting point for the new popular security, which very many countries can envy us, not least because it is also a result of good contact with the social partners, for whom the pension system is important, the popular security system is important, but also the other systems that need to be put in place to achieve a comprehensive pension system. However, I must be allowed to comment on some of what was said by the Progress Party here. For example, Robert Eriksson says that the future pensioners will have a real wage cut. That's wrong. If we, for example, look at a level that's kind of something, and not exactly at the decimal – at 6 pst. salary increase and 3 pst. Price rise - pensioners will have a significant real wage increase. If we look at the last ten years, with today's decision on how to adjust pensions in the future, there will be a real income increase on pensions. So it's wrong that the representative says they're going to have a real pay cut. In that case, it assumes that development over time would lead to a significantly higher price increase, but it's not these experience figures that we have to rely on. In the case of those who no longer receive anything left to have paid pension income, I referred to the current system. One of the qualities of the new system is that it's being cleaned up in this. I also heard that the representative Eriksson used as an example in one of his several creative calculations those that won't be able to go off at 62 years of age, because they didn't have an AFP attack in the population they're earning. But today, if you don't have an AFP scheme, your retirement age in Norway is 67 years old. So we're talking about people who today have 67 years of age as retirement. Most people will now be able to lose at age 62, but some people may have to work a few months longer to reach the level they need, which is equivalent to a minimum pension at age 67. So there's a clear improvement in early departure possibilities, especially for those who don't have the AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e390	The representative Robert Eriksson has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e393	To the Council of State: I have not mentioned the concept of real wage reduction. What I said was that the future pensioners on the basis of the new regulatory principles will have a lower purchasing power development compared to the active ones. I think the Council of State should have been so honest that he referred to that statement, and not pretending that I have said something quite different from this pulpit, because it does not lead to correctness. The new pension scheme will necessarily be such that pensioners lose purchasing power in relation to maintaining the current regulatory principle in relation to the economically active. There's no doubt about it, and it's also in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e400	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e416	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e424	The odelsting should then go to voting in today's matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e431	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size rejects a new old-age pension and asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes in the current pension scheme. It is requested that the Government submit amendments which take account of the following considerations: – Remove the abbreviation of the basic pension for married/cohabiting pensioners so that everyone gets 100 pst. basic pension regardless of marital status. – Increase pension benefits from 3.00 to 3.50 for unpaid care. – Introduction of service provision for a vested security obligation. – Establish a scheme in which the minimum pension is curtailed by 80 pst. of accrued-income pension. – Increase the minimum pension to 2G, increasing the special supplement from 74 pst. [[low rate]] [[high rate]] to 100 pst. by G, and from 94 pst. to 100 pst. by G. – introduce flexible withdrawals of pensions from the age of 62 and facilitate the combination of labour income and pensions without leading to a curtailment of pension payments. [[negative power]] – Ensure the practice of the coordination law, so that no loss is made of having earned pension points in social security
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1257	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1268	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1281	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1327	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1336	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15-lower.ana.ud1140e1435	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
