ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e30	The called alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Michael Momyr, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative of Inger S. Enger from 13 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Johannes Rindal, is invited to meet during the period of leave. Johannes Rindal is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e56	Johannes Rindal is present and will take the seat. The representative of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e61	I am pleased to submit a proposal from the representatives of Laila Davøy, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself to strengthen user rights when applying for social security benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e66	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e69	On behalf of the representatives Jan Tore Sanner, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and myself, I am pleased to make the following proposal: Clearer requirements – increased tolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e74	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e88	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e97	Privacy has been an important issue for the Left for many years. Strong privacy is essential both for individual freedom and for democracy. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee feels that it is worrying that privacy is under pressure. Studies in all areas of supervision show that data protection is being pressed. A Joint Committee shares the concerns of the Data Protection Authority over developments towards lower safety and liberal practices in the collection and storage of personal data. Although the Left is pleased that all parties on the Storting are concerned about developments, we are not satisfied, because despite ever-increasing reports and studies showing a deterioration in privacy, there is little willingness to implement policies to change these developments. All the proposals made by the Left to strengthen privacy have been voted down during this period. In the autumn I, together with Odd Einar Dørum, promoted a draft constitution on respect for privacy and home and the protection of personal data. The background to the proposal is that we believe it is important that the provision on privacy be brought up to the same level in the hierarchy of legal rules as the provisions on freedom of expression and information. It can only take place through a constitutional attachment. We hope that this proposal will be supported in Stortinget. At the beginning of January of this year, the Data Protection Commission presented its investigation. It reviewed the status and challenges of privacy. In the left we have read this investigation with great interest, not just because it was the left who initiated the work, but because we think many of the proposals are interesting. We have therefore challenged the Government to follow up the investigation with political action. In the health sector, we believe that the first government must do is review all existing health records with a focus on privacy. We have therefore put forward proposals to this effect already now. There is one more issue that I want to address in connection with this annual report, and that concerns the Data Storage Directive. Two years ago, the Left proposed that, in the event of the data storage directive being implemented, the Government should ensure that information should not be stored for more than six months. The proposal was not supported. Since that time, the Directive has received even more attention and more eyes have been given to the fact that the Directive could have a major impact on the fundamental right to anonymous communication. The Left believes that the implementation of this Directive will interfere with both privacy and freedom of expression. The left agrees that privacy sometimes has to give way to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. However, we believe that the Data Storage Directive goes far too far in interfering with the freedom of ordinary people. Against this background, we are promoting a new proposal that, in implementing the Data Storage Directive, the Government should ensure that information is not stored for more than six months. With this I address the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e116	The representative Vera Lightcloth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e119	I would just like to refer to the rapporteur's excellent contributions and to the fact that this time the Committee has had a somewhat minor mention of specific data protection issues in the context of the examination of this annual communication. This is due to two relationships. This is because of the next matter the Stortinget will deal with, and this is because, when we dealt with this, we received the suspension from the Privacy Commission. The reason I took the floor is that there has been a misunderstanding in the setting, where on page 4 there is a comment from the Progress Party and the Left that also the Christian People's Party and the Right want to stand behind. The same applies to proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left, which the Christian People's Party and the Right want to support in the Chamber, which has also been done under previous voting on the same theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e126	The red-green parties will be satisfied that we have a data oversight that is up-to-date, active and not least independent. The employees of the Data Protection Authority are presented with an integrity that makes them take seriously in the political debate. This has been done at a time when data protection issues are not among the highest on the political agenda. We would also like to express satisfaction with the priorities set by the Data Protection Authority in recent years, namely to focus more on supervision. It is a major challenge and it is necessary to increase and strengthen the supervision of the use of data by businesses and how they store data. The work of the Data Protection Authority in this area is important. In its communication, the Data Protection Authority stresses that privacy is under constant pressure. In all areas covered by the Data Protection Authority, they demonstrate and demonstrate that data protection is under strong pressure and identify three areas where there is strong pressure. First of all, privacy under pressure is based on what we can call a classic orwell situation: Big brother sees you. It's challenging, and we can call it Kafka's world, where information and information are deliberately used in a power exercise. It is absolutely essential that we be able to stop this pressure and a development in which data is used in such a way. The second thing that the Data Protection Authority points out is what they call a care monitoring. In the service of education, health or whatever it may be, we are so eager to help and support that data information can be misused and privacy is threatened. And thirdly, what they call efficiency. In our time of efficiencies, we can become so eager to make more effective that man stands in the way of efficiencies, that is, privacy can be threatened as a consequence of it. It is important that the Data Protection Authority continues to monitor in order to prevent the misuse of data information. I can add a fourth area where it is quite obvious that privacy is threatened. That's what I'd call fear of terrorism. In many areas, we see – and we can use the Data Storage Directive as an example of this – a strong and clear tendency that privacy in matters of fear of terrorism must give way. I recorded what the Left spokeswoman said. I think we should be very vigilant to use fear of terror so that it seems threatening to privacy. In these three areas – and I add a fourth – it is important that we are all on guard and that we are all engaged in a lively debate on these issues. The Data Storage Directive will be dealt with later. I already need to express concerns about this directive. It can – and as the Data Protection Authority itself stresses – pose a threat to privacy. Here, all electronic information shall be stored and this information shall be kept for up to one year. I would already like to signal that we should consider saying that this should not be implemented in Norwegian law, precisely because in my opinion it could be a serious threat to privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e143	As the representative Höie was in the meeting, we will discuss a matter later, but I still thought that the Annual Reports of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Officer were worth taking the floor. I will give some superior views, and then we will discuss some details about individual proposals in the debate that follow. In February 2008, the Data Protection Authority carried out an investigation into the detention of some current data protection issues in the population. Many people express concern at the day-to-day monitoring and control that is being carried out. Nevertheless, it seems that we accept a number of interventions in our private sphere when we experience that this can provide security against some forms of crime, for example. I just think that the holders of the inhabitants are an expression of the difficult balances between privacy on one side and other good purposes on the other. Privacy is difficult to specify and to quantify. When it comes to tackling other and more specific objectives, such as road safety, good health services or the fight against crime, privacy has often been the loser. That is why we need a continuous debate and reflection on privacy, which was also discussed by the representative, Mr Rikvam. The government has strengthened the privacy area by 11 million. and have seen a number of measures being taken, which we have been in the Storting before in previous debates. I am busy thinking about privacy already in the planning of new actions. Therefore, privacy considerations shall be a natural part of all distribution work where applicable. Last year I launched a guide to assess the impact of privacy for various public actions. The supervisor should help the administration to make better data protection assessments in a timely manner in the distribution process – not just after making a good proposal and getting all the arguments for – i.e. a thinking of privacy implications in planning, including all the other proposals. It is important for one to be able to make the right decisions about privacy matters in a timely manner. Children and young people are currently subject to potential privacy violations in many areas. They are major consumers of digital media and early-age digital communications. But the use of digital media can also bring with it privacy challenges that we cannot expect the smallest can understand. Therefore, it is important to explain in their languages about electronic tracks, online anonymity and digital bullying. The "You decide" campaign, with which the Committee is well aware, is designed for young people on their premises. The campaign is well received, and new material is constantly being printed up. The campaign has been mainly aimed at the oldest children now at first. Now we've begun to make material for the younger children as well. The youngest cannot take care of their own privacy. That's what we grow up to do. Sometimes it's the adults that are closest to the kids, that poses the greatest threat. They put images of their kids on the web, they print text that involves the kids. For example: We've seen children's distribution issues. The data controller creates the guide «In the best sense», aimed at kindergartens and others dealing with the smallest children, linked to images of children on the web. Special schools and kindergartens will benefit greatly from the guide. Then we see that ID theft is an increasing problem both here to countries and in other countries. Especially in the United States, this problem has become widespread. We are busy helping victims of ID theft and have taken action to prevent this type of robbery. We've also supported Security Valley this year at Gjøvik, where one of the first projects is to map the extent and development of ID theft in Norway. We need to know more about this. Work on improving authentication procedures is also important to prevent ID theft. We have the government's work with the eID, which is also well known to this committee, even though it is primarily under the Committee on Transport. It is an important basic element for us to be able to exchange information in a safe and secure way on the web. Central to the prevention of ID thieves is also the responsibility of service providers for adequate security in their own services. Then maybe the most important thing is not to accept the birth number as a confirmation that a person is the one he gives himself out to be. It's probably too awkward to do this. When someone just gives you a birth number, you believe that you have an identified person. That is not the case, and the various private and public activities must be conscious. So we're going to take the rest of the proposals during the next debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e172	The Party of Progress notes that in its 2007 Annual Report, the supervisory authority writes that data protection is under pressure in all areas where supervision is exercised. This is not new from the supervision page. This has largely been their comment every year we have considered the oversight’s annual report. When one then records that it might be the public that is the biggest breaker of these regulations and rules, I'm going to ask the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to improve public relations with privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e177	It is absolutely right, as the representative Starheim says, that privacy is under pressure. It has a lot to do with a technological development where we get new online supplies, for example. social services with all the world's so-called Web 2.0 applications, like Facebook and YouTube, where people spend too much -- I say -- information about themselves and maybe about their employer, without being smart about it, information that can be abused by others. We've seen that, and it's almost clear to people, because we've been running good information campaigns, not least the 'You decide' campaign, as I said. When the public sector is worse than private, we really don't know much about it. At least I don't want to do any good here and now for the chosen one from Starheim. But it is quite obvious that in all cases we are trying to show the responsibility of every single public enterprise. It's a lot about consciousness. We see that when a part of the municipalities break the law, it is simply a matter of putting out information that should have been deleted without thinking about it. We must not at least think of preventive privacy, as I said, when we take out new measures. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e182	When we heard the part of Rikham's posts dealing with the Data Storage Directive, there is an oral version of the opposition's comments and proposals relating to the same issue. My question to the Council of State is whether she can today explain the State of the Government’s work on the Data Storage Directive – and when will the Government be made aware of what is the Government’s conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e190	As the representative Höie is well aware, the Minister for Transport, who has the constitutional responsibility for the processing of the Data Storage Directive in the Government, chose to await the handling of the case which Ireland had brought before the European Court of Justice. A response was received on February 10, 2009. Ireland was not given any support – unfortunately, the representative Höie and the representative Rikvam can say. This means that the Government now has to assess the Directive nationally, decide whether it is EEA-relevant and acceptable to us. This work is being carried out by the Ministry of Transport. Besides that, I have no feedback to Stortinget today about the time that that assessment was completed. It is the Minister of Transport who has a responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e195	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2250]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e213	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e222	This case is based on a proposal from Bent Höie, Kari Lise Holmberg, Elisabeth Aspaker, Inge Wohnning, Trond Helleland, Olemic Thommessen and André Octay Dahl to strengthen privacy and ensure a defensive management of personal information. There's a close link between the previous case and this. The proposers indicate that privacy is under pressure in almost all areas of society. The same pointed out the Data Protection Authority and the subject in its 2007 report, which we dealt with in the previous case. In recent decades we have had a huge technological development, which has resulted in a desire for new measures to fight crime. Snoking in other people's privacy has been easier, and information about societal development and increasing public etats/organisations has led to the loss of privacy. The Committee points out that new technologies and information flows are constantly creating new challenges when it comes to ensuring that person-sensitive information is used only for the purpose it has been acquired. The fact that such information, due to its fragile security or poor routines, attracts people or institutions without access to information is of the highest concern to its citizens. We have to fight this. In this country, we have great confidence in public authorities such as the police, hospitals, social security and welfare authorities and municipalities. These are instances that manage very sensitive information about us as individuals. The proposers of this document claim that if you look at the controllers' checks and the results of these checks, it is not trusted by Norway. I assume that some of the proposers themselves will elaborate on this and also take up the suggestions contained in the document that are about to strengthen privacy in order to prevent a development in which several of us are victims of a weak privacy policy. I also assume that representatives from the government party will clarify their views on this matter and their suggestions. We also refer to the reply letter from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, dated 22 October 2008. The party for progress is in principle behind the intentions set out in proposal No. 10, but we don't find it a good idea to apply a right-of-occupancy arrangement right now. The reason is that we believe that a directive on the caregivers can lead to inappropriate use of resources on small businesses, and sees it most appropriate that this point is resolved in connection with the back-testing of the personal data law. The Progress Party, together with the Right and Left, makes proposal No. 9: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the Government to school nursery and nursery workers in the Data Protection Act, and for the provision to be made for collection and storage, as well as for the transfer of personal data between kindergarten and school, to be carried out only after informed consent of parents/constituters.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will also be tabling proposals. 7 and 8, together with the Right Party and the Christian Party: Proposal No. 7: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that information on income and tax is made publicly available on request, where the name of the requester is registered and the person for whom information is obtained is alerted [[according to the current credit information collection model]] Proposal No. 8:@item: intable Text ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the large public registers and data banks, as in the health services, establish a log for whom information is obtained and that the individual is entitled to access the log related to his or her person.’ The Progress Party sees the other measures included in the document as appropriate to ensure better privacy and more defence-related management of personal sensitive information. The Progress Party has, therefore, together with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, put forward proposals on these points in line with the proposals in the document. In the fight for privacy, the Progress Party will underline the important role of supervisory as the manager of existing legislation and as the precursor to the further development of the debate on privacy. We are certain that the supervision will also put this on the agenda in the future, and we feel sure that the supervision itself has great ambitions to do the best possible work to achieve a good and safe result, for the best of our citizens in this country. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the proposers for this document put privacy on the agenda in such a way as they have done, thus creating debate in a very important area. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e269	The representative, Åge Starheim, has taken up the proposals as from No. 1 up to and including Nos. 9, on behalf of the Advance Party and various parties, to which he has referred, partly referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e272	When I look at the reception of the Right proposal in this case, I have to say, if I'm going to be honest, that I'm positive that they have received such a good reception in many parties. Now, after almost four years of opposition, one also has painful experience that there is going to be a terrible lot to do in order for the government parties to vote for proposals that they are for, when they are promoted by others other than the government, so when one then nevertheless experiences a relatively positive mention of a number of these proposals, one has to expect that these are also proposals that the Government and the government parties will eventually implement. However, there is reason to comment on some of the issues addressed. Often you can get the impression that personal protection is taking place in Norway at a very general and philosophical level. It's very easy to agree with the importance of privacy, and it's often very easy to participate in interesting and fundamental discussions about the balance, for example. between the protection of privacy and the fight against crime. This Document No The 8-proposal addresses a number of proposals based in many ways on what the Right believes that the public has provided for a reduced level of privacy in a number of areas of everyday life, affecting a large number of people. Today's Stavanger Aftenblad, for example. a large look-up with Målfrid Frahm Jensen, who has felt many of the different pages of this Document No. The 8 takes up on the body. She got an overview four years ago of who had been in her patient records at the psychiatric department at Stavanger University Hospital. There she found that a private acquaintance, who in her opinion had no professional reason to read the journal, was logged. Frahm Jensen complained to the Health Inspectorate. She complained at the same time that her journal, among others. conversations with psychiatrists, which contained very private and personal information, were also made available to environmental personnel. Now four years have passed since Frahm Jensen complained to the Health Authority, and she has not yet received a response to the complaint. It may also say something about how the public system takes seriously the challenges of snooping in patient records are in the Norwegian health system. She also experienced just being asked to sign that she had given Nav access to the entire patient record in order to assess whether she was going to get a technical tool that she had applied for. It is quite obvious that Nav does not need a complete patient record in order to be able to provide a technical tool. She experienced exactly the same thing at the insurance company Versatile, who asked for a copy of the entire patient record in order to replace a broken tooth after a vacation trip to Australia. She chose to cover that bill herself, instead of giving the Mutual Patient Records. When one person, one person, experiences so many gross violations of his privacy in the areas covered by this document, it only shows that very many people in everyday life in Norway today feel that their privacy is being violated, by the fact that the Storting has set up a system that means that both a resident and a society obviously has unlimited confidence that everyone who works in our public welfare system has a clean, clear relationship with the principles of privacy. That's not the case. And it is we who are here, who have a responsibility to ensure the establishment of a system that not only prevents surveillance by Big Brother, but also prevents surveillance by Big Mother. That is exactly what is happening in more and more areas. With that in mind, I would like to address the proposal on which the Right is alone, and also thank the other opposition parties for the broad support given to the proposals. I hope that the government parties will be quick to follow up these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e285	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e288	Let me just first make a comment on the previous debate and on the data storage directive. It is true that Ireland has not been supported — they tried that matter, if this was part of the four freedoms. So they didn't get along. But in relation to that, at least some of us are concerned about, this is quite uninteresting, because what we're talking about is whether this is going to be part of Norwegian law, if we're going to require data to be stored to an extent that this data storage directive adds. There are some of us also very worried about. Let me also relate some comments to what goes on identity theft. There's a reason to be concerned about that. It is also certainly happening in Norway. How easy is it to access your identity? It's not long since there was a big look in the media about a girl who had got a new identity because she was being persecuted. I think it took the newspaper – Stavanger Aftenblad was – two hours to get her new identity, and that in itself is quite serious. We can't have it like that, it takes a newspaper two hours to figure out the new identity and make this more or less known. So we have big challenges in this area. We have to take it seriously. Let me also say that I actually think that the Right deserves praise for this work and the commitment they have. When we do not automatically say that we are voting in favour of these proposals, there are several reasons for this. First of all, a good part of what's being taken up here is about mind-creating work. It's about raising awareness of how a user uses data, how those who have access to it use it. So the main work in these concrete proposals is on more awareness, and maybe not so much on change in the rules. One example is what goes on information between different levels of education, from kindergarten to school, and from primary to secondary school, where we probably also have the same challenges. In my opinion, it's a conscious attitude, that we work consciously in relation to those who sit on this information, and that we are also aware that in this case, parents will consent if information is to be given from one level to another. So for me, this is very much about raising awareness. That is why it is important for the Right to take these debates and promote these specific issues as the basis for a debate. As we also write, the government is doing a good deal of these things. They're working on what they're doing. And these recordings that come from the Right, and also from others here, will be important input into the further work. Finally, let me just comment on what is going on on the proposal to strengthen the Data Protection Agency with increased resources. That's something we've done over this entire period. Both the Government and the majority of the population have been involved in strengthening the Data Protection Authority. We've added them increased resources. And I hope we will continue with that in the future. So that's where we agree. We agree on most of it. The question is whether there is a need to adopt it, because this is work that is going on, that will be done with, and where the main thing is to raise awareness, engage and keep the debate alive out there where one sits on that kind of sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e299	Privacy is about protecting the individual. We live in a time that is becoming increasingly challenging. Big brother sees you easier than before – we just have to take that in. It is important that we address concretely the challenges that we see of an increasingly electronic everyday life. We can't just let evolution go its course. People need to be informed about what kind of rights they have. There's really a limit to how close people will get to us without our prior consent. In this way, the Data Protection Authority is making a necessary and important effort to protect individuals from the violation of privacy interests through the processing of personal data. Privacy affects, inter alia: in the case of television surveillance, recording, use and security of personal data, transparency and disclosure of information from, for example: the tax office or the permanent resident. Different privacy rules are laid down in a number of laws, regulations and administrative provisions. As a society, we will constantly face the challenge of finding a proper balance between privacy on the one hand and freedom of expression on the other. It is important to debate, and I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of the Right who have tabled the proposals in Document No. 8:111. The Christian People's Party supports most of the proposals, but a few words about the two proposals we do not support. The Christian People's Party supports the principle and intention of proposal VI in the document, but we do not see it as useful to impose an ombudsman order now. We believe that an ombudsman order could lead to inappropriate use of resources in smaller enterprises, and consider it most appropriate that this item be investigated in connection with the post-control of personal data law. With regard to proposal IX in the document, to introduce the provision that collection, storage and transfer of personal data between kindergarten and school should take place only after informed consent of parents and supervisors, the Christian People's Party believes that this is adequately protected in the applicable legislation and is therefore critical of tightening up the rules on cooperation between kindergarten and school. For individual students, there is no need to set an excessive threshold for cooperation and dialogue between kindergarten and school. As I said, the rest of the proposals in the document are supported by the Christian People's Party. We consider these proposals to be useful steps to ensure better privacy and more sound management of personal sensitive information. Finally, in the case of public tax lists, government parties say in their comments that it is not appropriate to abolish the scheme of public, or open, tax lists now, but they do not argue why. At a time when it's bullying, when there's big social differences, and then the access to this information is so simple, even for children, it's quite amazing that the government parties on the one hand say that they want to level social differences, they're concerned with bullying in school, but on the other hand don't see that there's a connection between making this information less accessible and reducing bullying. There's a very clear connection here. We've seen that this is one of the areas where children get hurt. I have heard the government parties argue that one will not protect the rich, so one must have public tax lists. In fact, children suffer when information is given as ‘the poorest family in the class’ or ‘the poorest family in the street’, etc. And in a time of increasing unemployment, there will be more who will be the victims of just this. So I would like the government parties to see that the Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition want a system in terms of the tax lists, which is such that those who need the information can get them – we want to ensure transparency that way – but not everyone else gets them, and that we don't get this as entertainment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e318	In the Left, we are pleased that the right has promoted this proposal for a representative. As I said in my post on the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Agency, privacy has been an important issue for the Left for many years because strong privacy is essential for the individual's freedom and democracy. But the Left does not believe that all the proposals will improve privacy. Both proposal II and proposal III of the document are based on the idea that the data protection challenge can be addressed by registering even more information on individuals. I see that, in some cases, privacy may conflict with the objective of maximum transparency in society, but the Left cannot see that this is the case for the situations that proposers here are trying to regulate through registration. That is why the Left does not support these proposals. Nor does the left support proposal VI to establish privacy representatives. For the left, the word ‘order’ is a little sacred. In a democracy, it is basically the elected representatives of the citizens. It's our job to take care of the interests of the citizens who voted for us, it's our job to take care of regional concerns in the district from which we're elected, and it's our job to be a spokesman for the small voices. Therefore, in principle, the Left believes that there should be only two representatives in addition to the elected representatives. It is the Civil Ombudsman, who has a very special position in the government, and it is the Children's Ombudsman, because children do not have the right to vote. The left, we believe, is eroding democracy if we make an ombudsman for any situation and for any group that feels bored. That is why we have made a proposal to review and clean up the use of agents. That is why we do not support proposal VI in this proposal for a representative. The left has supported proposal IV, on patient records, but we have also made a proposal on the same topic. The background to the proposal is that, in the opinion of the Left, it is very important to maintain people's confidence in their doctor. Our innermost and most personal information should be disseminated to as few different instances and people as possible. There is a huge demand for health information from public authorities, researchers and commercial actors. The left is very concerned about health developments in which it is difficult for individuals to have an overview of how health information is used and stored. The Left therefore promoted a proposal a few years ago to introduce a ban on the use of information in patient records to commercial actors such as drug users. insurance corporations. Following the promotion of this proposal, the Insurance Contracts Act has been amended to regulate the relationship between an insurer and a company when insurance is refused or offered at a particularly high premium. We supported this change, but still believe that commercial actors should not have access to our patient records. We therefore want to re-examine the proposal, and I take this up with the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e331	The representative Vera Lightcloth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e334	Let me also start by thanking the representatives from the Right for not only with this proposal, but for the entire period of having had an important attention on privacy issues. And not only the representatives from the Right, but the entire committee has experienced a completely different focus on privacy issues than they have had in previous periods. Of course, I appreciate that. As many people have come up with, new technology makes us almost whatever we do, leave information behind us, whether we pay in a store or in a patio, we run through a toll station, or, to the extent that we are with our doctor and things are stored in an electronic patient record. Therefore, I am as busy as the proposers that this collection is not widened and expanded as it should be, and of course that it has been collected, is where it is, and is not abused. The proposers make a lot of suggestions, and I can't comment on them all in 5 minutes, but I'll take some of them. Let me take it generally around it to support suggestions or not. Many of these proposals are more or less affected by the Commission's report. It's now out on six months' hearing. I think we should have respect for public spending that is on an open and democratic hearing. It is important that the proposals are highlighted both by those who oppose what the representatives of the Right are against, and by those who support their proposals, and who may argue beyond what the representatives of the Right are doing, against some of the things that are on the table. It is important that we get a broad and holistic approach to the issues and that we do not conclude in advance. Therefore, the Government awaits its views before we present anything, but it is clear that we have started working on some of the proposals, including: by contacting certain departments which have part of these proposals. It has been about logging events in personal records as a privacy measure. I agree with that – it may work well for a person to have access to his own log. It is also a good tool for the controller at e.g. allegations of misuse of personal data. Last year we presented a proposal for rules on information security and access to health information in the health records of treatment rights. It was proposed to give the data subject, i.e. the patient, the right of access to logs providing information on the processing of information which may be related to him/her. The case has been heard and is now under treatment in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Ministry will come back with the follow-up to the proposal. The representative, Höie, gave us a peculiar thought-provoking story about this with the wishes of both public and private offices on the transparency of patient records. It has been a topical issue for many years, and I think the representative, Höie, gave a particularly thoughtful example of this. As late as January this year, Stortinget had a wide debate on access to information in patient records and adopted rules that clarify and restrict Nav's ability to obtain complete patient records, so that they only get a limited access to it. In addition to that, as the Left was in, we need stricter and more restrictive rules around our insurance company's desire for transparency. Here, too, in June last year, a clarification has been made in the insurance contract law that the collection of information by the companies is subject to a third party's obligations and shall be limited to what is necessary at each stage of the case. This means that the insurance company also does not have a comprehensive right to obtain a full patient record. As the representative Höie was in the house, it would be unnecessary to have access to an entire patient record in order to pay insurance for a tooth. It goes right into the matter that was dealt with last year. Otherwise, there is a lot about children and young people. We specifically commissioned the Privacy Commission to look at the whole area of children and young people. It's about things that are legal, but of course, everything that's on the web of offers that you can make use of. We're going to follow up on the Privacy Commission when it comes to several of the proposals. The Ministry of Knowledge is already working on a part of them, and we will come back to the Stortinget with it. Elles, we've been strengthening the Data Protection Agency for my time as State Council. The Data Protection Commission emphasises that there should be an additional reinforcement. It is natural that the Government will also come back with it in the light of the follow-up to the Commission's report on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e356	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e359	Again, I would like to refer to the supervisory annual report for 2007, where they write that privacy is under pressure in almost all areas where supervision has been carried out. This, I think, has been a continuous comment from the supervision every year in this period, which means that little is done by governing authorities to rectify this. I also refer to our remark in the previous case, where we pointed out that privacy has been given worse terms under the current government. My question to the Council of State is as follows: Will the Council of State consider whether more stringent sanctions should be imposed in relation to breaches of regulations and regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e366	Of course, I do not share the opinion of the representative Starheim, that little is being done. On the contrary, this government has really seen privacy on the agenda, both through the general strengthening of the Data Protection Agency and not least because we have chosen to provide funds for an outsourced operation. We need people to be first and foremost informed about the possibilities of misuse of personal data or others through what is happening on the Internet, and about the responsibilities of each individual in both private and public enterprises in relation to my and the representative Starheim's privacy rights. Then we have also strengthened the law. The Data Protection Authority has now been given the opportunity to print a fee in the event of a breach of the laws. Of course, it will be with and reinforce what is in the law, and what is abuse of the law, associated with both public and private activities that are not in compliance with the law. But first of all, information is important, so that one becomes aware of the responsibility that one has. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e373	In the Government, the Council of State is responsible for both effective public administration and privacy. When one then hears the story of Frahm Jensen, who four years after the complaint was sent – she has experienced that it was first three years in the Health Authority and then one year in the Health Directorate – has not received a response to such a serious complaint, does the Council of State believe that this is a proper treatment of such a complaint? And what will the Council of State do to ensure that no one else experiences that kind of procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e378	As the representative, Höie, of course, I believe that this is totally unacceptable. We have rules of procedure in the state, and they have to be followed. It also applies to the handling of complaints. It is important to comply with the rules of procedure applicable to complaints, just in order for the review procedure to be perceived as genuine. It's a very important part of the judiciary, the state of law of Norway. I don't know history, but, as I said, I think it's as unacceptable as the representative Höie does. Here a woman should be provided with answers as quickly as possible. That being said, the most important thing is that one goes in and actually does something with the legislation that prevents and limits just the transparency that these different etatories, cf. The representative, Höie's story, has asked for it. There I have shown in my article that we have now changed the laws in the field of health and the things that have to do with insurance, so that one does not have this door of transparency, but is given a very specific right of transparency when there are factual reasons for that. Maybe that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e385	The Christian People's Party trusts that the Government listens to these good proposals from the Right, supported by the opposition, precisely because we have a council of states that says it is necessary to concreteize the law in order to protect people from the enormous technological development and the possibility in it to make us even more vulnerable. The council said in its speech that she was especially concerned with children and young people. We know that they master this technology and use this technology, and they know a lot of ways to get in. That is precisely why the Christian People's Party questions whether one does not see children and young people even in the light of their driving and measuring each other's income. This with poor and rich families makes some children much more vulnerable than others because there is information online that the family is well below the average income level. Does the Council of State see that, for the sake of children and young people, this information does not need to be out of the question, available to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e392	As the representative Tørresdal correctly says, yes, it is absolutely right that the government listens to these good suggestions. They all go in the areas we asked the Privacy Commission to pay particular attention to, i.e. children and young people, the area of justice, the area of culture as the third and health as the fourth. When we presented the setting from the Privacy Commission, it was precisely these areas that were weighted through the articles at the press conference. So yes, this goes into the follow-up that we're going to do. Then it is also right, as the representative Tørresdal says, that children and young people are particularly exposed. They're very good users of digital media, but they've developed the digital force of judgment less than us, that's to see the consequences of their own actions – there and then they like impulse actions, but they get consequences in time. That is why I say that we must grow up to take responsibility for teaching young people the power of digital judgment. It's in school, of course, to do it, it's on the mature in kindergarten, but it's also on us as parents to do it. In the case of the tax lists, the Privacy Commission is divided in that area. There is the public debate on the developments in Difference Norway, which is weighing on the unfortunate consequences of the proposal. But we're behind the desire for a publicization of the tax lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e401	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e406	Several have praised Right for their proposal against privacy, and so will I. It is not long since a public investigation into privacy in the digital society, Individual and integrity, NOU 2009: 1. At present, there is an out-of-court hearing which could have the greatest impact on privacy, namely the establishment of a national heart and professional register. I note that on 10 March the Data Protection Authority delivered its hearing opinion, where, in connection with the possible establishment of a Card and Card Register, they point out that one cannot see each register separately, but that one must see the registers together and therefore have a principle approach to that type of establishment. I also record that the Data Protection Authority writes in its opinion: ‘In conflict between the privacy of the individual patient and the interests of the research, the very serious arguments shall be put forward for the personal protection of the individual.’;» We know that today it is technically fully possible to anonymise the type of records we are talking about here, i.e. a health register that includes large sections of the population, and where you need to be able to register cardiovascular diseases. I have to say that what the Data Protection Authority has about objections to a person-identifiable database that you should not have in relation to, is a type of objection that we in SV take very seriously. It has sometimes been shown as if having a majority government means that the opposition's involvement does not play a role in the final result, but this is a matter in which a broad debate takes place in public space, and in a debate with all parties on the Grand Duchy, it is going to land on positions that stand over time and that do not change depending on changing governments. I have to say that one of the things that pleases me the most is how the opposition seems to have an overall principleal approach to privacy issues that are sustainable over time. There is a perception SV over time has also shared. That is why I look forward to the public debate in the cold water of the kind of consultation opinions provided by the Data Protection Supervisor, so that when and if a health register for cardiovascular diseases is established, it is a register that can also be defended for purely privacy reasons, so that the public should have no reason to fear that very sensitive information is being diverted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e424	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e432	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e439	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Left proposal No. 2, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e462	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e493	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 7 and 8, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 9, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motion No. 10, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 11, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e525	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the establishment of data protection officers in/by the major institutions and agencies in the justice and health sectors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e539	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the Government to school nursery and nursery workers in the Data Protection Act, and for the provision to be made for collection and storage, as well as for the transfer of personal data between kindergarten and school, to be carried out only after informed consent of parents/constituters.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e551	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e556	Then the number of votes changes. The proposal is therefore 56 to 40 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e559	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that information on income and tax is made publicly available on request, where the name of the requester is registered and the person for whom information is obtained is alerted [[according to the current credit information collection model]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the large public registers and data banks, as in the health services, establish a log for whom information is obtained and that the individual is entitled to access the log related to his or her person.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e580	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to suspend the proposal on the possibility of the Credit Authority’s obtaining traffic data.’; Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to limit Nav’s ability to obtain complete patient records and to assume that the patient concerned is aware of the delivery of the record.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the regulation of the new Public Health Act, to establish clear rules on what can be published on the Internet, how to publish and control procedures to prevent human errors and system failures, and to ensure protection against exposure via search engines.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the removal of the Tax Directorate’s jurisdiction in the Equation Act to require the transparency of information relating to specific vehicles used in commercial activities in the case of electronic tolling.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines to ensure the protection of privacy in relation to the collection and use of personal data at school. The guidelines must ensure that personal data are properly processed, stored and deleted.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size request of the Government in the context of the 2009 State Budget provides a stepping-up plan for the Data Protection Authority’s resource situation to meet the increased tasks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-13.ana.ud1772e646	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
