ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e45	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e54	As of 31 October of the current year, there will be 19,858 asylum seekers in Norwegian reception. The number has increased every single month under the current government. In September 2008, the Government launched 13 so-called restrictive measures. On 10 June 2009, the then State Council Dag Terje Andersen launched more restrictive measures, including: the establishment of care centres in Afghanistan for the increasing flow of lone minor asylum seekers arriving in Norway. The last man out was Knut Storberget, who in a big interview in the newspaper on Monday also launched new tightenings. What he said was – and I quote: ‘We look at measures to tighten up at all times.’ My question to the Prime Minister is, When does the Government intend to stop looking at this issue and start acting? Or is it the case that the Government also operates double communications in this area, where through Norwegian media from time to time it tries to reassure the Norwegian people that the Government has actually intended to tighten up, but that, when it comes to the problem, it will not take the necessary measures to curb the influx of asylum? It is a fact that in its forecasts for next year, the Government estimates that there will be at least as many asylum seekers to Norway as in the current year, which is thus the record year for the influx of asylum seekers to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e64	The government has taken action and will take action to reduce the number of arrivals of people who do not have the right to stay in Norway. We must conduct a consistent and fair refugee and asylum policy. This means that we must pursue a policy in which those who need protection under the Asylum Institute should stay, but those who do not need protection should not be allowed to stay. It is a policy we are now following and where we are taking action. A good deal of action has already been taken. This has contributed to the fact that the strong growth we saw in the number of asylum arrivals has flattened out, and after that I also expect that we will see a decline. Many of the measures have already been implemented. Some of the measures will be implemented in the coming year, for example: further strengthening the Foreign Office of the Police and several new police posts, including: to Eastfold, in order to further increase the number of border controls and to further increase the number of shipments. How many come to Norway depends both on our own policies and on the situation outside the world. It's limited what we can do with the situation outside the world, but we can change our own policies. Proposals have been made, proposals have been put forward, and the Soria Moria Declaration warns us of further proposals. The whole point is that if we ensure that those who do not have the right to stay are not allowed to stay and are transported, it is also much easier to set up, protect and accept those who have the right to stay — those who are to be treated with respect and in a proper way in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e73	What the Prime Minister has just said, he has said many times in the past. That's why I want to challenge him to be a little more concrete. Since he specifically mentions that several of the measures taken by the Government have worked, I would like to know what measures the Government has taken that have actually had an impact on the flow of refugees to Norway. Then I would like to know what new measures the government is planning to take, and when the Storting can expect to get these to be treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e80	It's absolutely right that what I said now, I've said many times before. I believe that it is an advantage that I say the same when I get the same question, and do not answer differently from time to time. I'm going to keep doing that. With regard to concrete measures, a wide range of concrete measures have been taken. These include: the increase in both police appropriations to launch several shipments — the number of shipments is increasing — and more police posts in order to step up border controls. The border controls have increased this year, and will increase further next year. It is about getting an identification centre in place; the work is now in progress. This means that it will be much easier to identify and reduce the number of asylum seekers we do not know who is, and thus could get a faster and better procedure. It's about strengthening the UDI process, and it's about working with several countries, so that we get faster shipments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e87	There will be four follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e90	The time of the statement should be over. It is almost 14 months since today that the Government launched the so-called tightening of asylum policy. It should soon be expected to see action and results of action, but only the Memorandum of Understanding has ruled the track. So you still have that on repeated occasions. Norway is once again setting a new record in the number of asylum seekers this year. We're still on the world top in terms of population. On 1 January we will have a new law on foreign affairs which represents liberalisation in many areas of Norwegian asylum policy. So it's in the middle of this situation that the government is still talking about tightening up. The government doesn't even believe in its own intrusions. This can be read from the budget documents. My question to the Prime Minister is this: Were the so-called asylum restrictions only populist on the occasion of the election campaign? Is this about rhetoric and not about politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e99	The answer to that question is no. It is about concrete measures that have already been taken. A number of regulations have been amended, legislative decisions have been tabled, proposals for appropriations have been submitted and some have also been adopted, a number of posts have been created in a wide range of areas to reduce the number of arrivals of people who do not have the right to stay and to increase the transport of those who have not been accommodated. And it starts, it's doing something about it now. This has contributed to the flattening of the increase in asylum arrivals. We're also adding that we can see a decrease in time. We are committed to doing this both because we are concerned that there should not be people in Norway who do not have the right to stay here, and also to be able to accept those who actually have the right to stay in Norway. Both are important. I explained in my previous reply that more police positions, more deportation and a separate legislative proposal to provide increased authorisation for the use of detention should be able to prevent people who do not have a right to protection from being here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e106	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e110	Yesterday's Address Paper says that 3,400 people are on asylum reception, but they have been given a decision to be sent home. This costs several hundred million dollars a year. At the same time, we know that the big budget winner of next year's budget is the UDI, which is increasing its budget from NOK 3 to NOK 4.5 billion, i.e. an increase of 50 pst. This does not indicate that the Government intends to add to a much tighter asylum policy. When the State Council of Storberget says that he has to pursue an asylum policy similar to our conservatively ruled neighbouring country, I want to ask the Prime Minister: what will the Government do to get a faster return of groundless asylum seekers, and when can we see a change in asylum policy in line with, among other things. Denmark has?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e117	Firstly, there are too many people in Norwegian asylum recipients who are not supposed to be in Norway. There's a double reason to help reduce the number of arrivals of people who don't have the right to protection, because it's not good for them to come to Norway. They're many months, maybe years, in reception, and then they're returned. It is a problem for them, and it is a problem for Norway. Significant measures are therefore being taken. I have already shown that the number of shipments is increasing significantly, that border controls are increasing significantly, that the processing capacity in the UDI is increasing significantly, and that we are now setting up our own identification centre in order to get a faster and better procedure, and faster and better return. We have had a very strong increase in the number of lone minor asylum seekers, especially from Afghanistan. One of the most important things we do now is to grant money -- I think it's $30 million. kr in the budget for 2010 – to set up a centre in Afghanistan where lone minor asylum seekers can receive care and supervision, thus reducing the influx of lone minor asylum seekers to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e124	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e127	When an increase in the number of people seeking asylum in Norway also increases the pressure on our reception system. In recent times, both the Evening Post and the Newspaper have focused on these waiting receptions, for example. in Fagerli and in Lier, where some serious episodes are reported. I quote from the Evening Post: ‘A young asylum seeker killed his doctor and a policeman. Another smashed TVs. A third tried to light up in the living room. A fourth cut off and used the blood to write hate messages about Norway on the wall.’ The meaning of these waiting receptions is that they should motivate asylum seekers who have been refused their applications to travel to their home country. Does the Prime Minister feel that the conditions revealed at the waiting receptions are motivating for voluntary return?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e137	I am absolutely sure that there is a lot of improvement in the conditions of the waiting receptions. There are often despairing people, people in a difficult situation who are there, people who have been denied residence and who are going out. We are working on contributing to a more voluntary return. We've tightened up, for example. on the rules on family establishment and on the requirements for financial support at the time of residence, and, as I say, we have also greatly increased the number of emigrations by police. All contribute to trying to reduce the pressure on the number of people in waiting receptions, thus helping to improve the conditions of waiting receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e142	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e145	People of their best age, working before age, passivating, and the energy drains out of them as they just wait and stare in the wall year after year. On 19 August, Jonas Gahr Støre said in an NRK debate that of course all asylum seekers should have the right to work, of course everyone should have the right to work, the right to work. Does the Prime Minister agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and when, if appropriate, will the Government grant all asylum seekers in Norway the right to work as long as they are within Norway's borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e152	The government does not believe that all asylum seekers should be given the right to work in Norway, especially those who have been refused a stay, simply because it can stimulate the number of arrivals. It can make coming to Norway even more motivating. We just want to encourage fewer people who do not need protection to come to Norway. We want several of those who are here and who do not need protection to return voluntarily. That's why we restrict access to work, because it will simply make being in Norway more beneficial. I can understand that someone disagrees with that, but the government's policy is very clear. We stand firm on what has been our policy all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e159	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e162	The party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, used the weekend to sum up the last month the government has had, and she did it by saying that November could hardly be the best month this government has had. November has been dominated by two political issues: one on biodiesel, the other on the Prime Minister's initiative on health pay and the start of a debate on perhaps the most important and most important challenge we have, that too many people are going beyond our working lives, and that too many people are using sick pay as a transport to disability. We have some big challenges on this. The reception that the Prime Minister's government partners have made of the proposals outlined by the Prime Minister has been a bit special. The newspapers have written that Karin Andersen “slaughter” the Prime Minister’s proposal, characterizes them as meaningless or as bad ideas. So the government parties have gone straight into the trenches of the public debate on some of the main challenges we are facing, namely how to limit the development of more people using sick pay as a transport step before they get out of work in the future. I would like to hear the Prime Minister say how the Government intends to get out of its trenches in the sick pay case, if the debate is such as to characterize the Prime Minister's initiative as meaningless.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e173	Firstly, I fully agree with Kristin Halvorsen that November 2009 has not been the best month for this government's work. Now, not all months can be the best month, and we have had so many other good months that we will probably deal with November 2009 as well. And especially it's an advantage that it's good months when it's a choice, and then we get to deal with the other months after that. Secondly, what has happened now is that we have had a very important debate on sick pay. It's an important debate, and it's a complicated debate, because the starting point for that government debate is that there should be no doubt that there should be full pay under sickness. If you're sick, you're going to have a full salary. And I actually mean more than that: you shouldn't be ashamed, you shouldn't feel that it's wrong to get full pay under sickness, because it's an important part and one of the finest thing about the Norwegian welfare community that you have security under sickness and disability. So it's going to take people straight back and be proud that we live in a society where you get full pay under sickness. The second important factor in this debate is that one important reason why there is a high level of sick leave in Norway compared to many other countries is that we have a lot of people at work. There is a strong strength in Norway that very many people are in work, but that is also some of the explanation that we have higher sick leave. The easiest way to reduce sick leave is to reduce employment. However, it is much better to have high employment and high sick leave than low employment and low sick leave. Our challenge is therefore to maintain a high level of employment and at the same time to reduce sick leave. There we have started a dialogue with the social partners. The government is committed to having that dialogue, and then we have to spend time, use knowledge, listen and discuss, and then come up with measures that can help reduce sick leave, as we have done in the past in dialogue with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e183	I understand that the Prime Minister will not respond to what he feels when his own partners characterise his proposals as meaningless. We have offered to cooperate on this topic. We have offered it because we believe that sick pay is not just about those who are out one year on sick pay, but it is this transport stage where people fall outside. It's true that we have high employment in Norway, but that's 22 pst. of those in working age who are out of work in some way. The reasons for this may be more. We have pointed out that one of the reasons is lack of basic competence, which makes adults in our complex society fall out faster. The waiting times at the hospitals, the lack of rehabilitation and rehabilitation are other reasons, but also the very nature of the sick pay and the way we handle people through the Nav system contribute to morbidity. My question to Prime Minister Stoltenberg is then: Is the Prime Minister willing to engage in an open dialogue with the opposition related to issues related to the reduction of sick leave and to prevent more falls outside the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e192	Experience from what we received in 2001 and the measures taken after that was that, not least in response to the sick, the use of classified health messages — the type of action — contributed to reducing sick leave. It actually went down first and then it was pretty stable. The alarming thing — especially this year — is that now sick leave has begun to grow again, and researchers are at least in doubt and sometimes deeply disagreed on the explanation of why we are seeing this increase. The current governance dialogue is with the social partners. It is very important that the parties feel that we are in real dialogue with them, that there are discussions, conversations, and then we will come to the Stortinget with the proposals and the changes that will require major consideration. Many measures may not require deliberation; others will require it, whether it be proposals for appropriations or legislative proposals, if they are the kind of proposals that come. Of course, we should also look at the proposals that the opposition has made, but dialogue must be done in an orderly manner with the social partners, and we have a long tradition in Norway for that kind of dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e201	There will be four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e204	I want to give the Prime Minister a little clapping on my shoulder and say that I don't think the Prime Minister's proposal at all was pointless. I think it was good and important proposals, and I also think it is good that he mentions the keyword «activity». We know that youth unemployment is increasing. We know that absenteeism among young people is increasing, and yesterday, at the NRC, we could see that there are increasing numbers of young social clients. Many of them experience a day-to-day experience in which they do not hear from employers for several years, do not get a job offer, do not get a follow-up from the social office – do not get any activity at all. It is a declaration of failure for our welfare society. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree that all social clients — all those receiving social assistance — should have the right to and the duty of activity as part of their scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e213	Firstly, we have put in place a very important system, the Qualification Programme – which has gradually become quite a thousand of those programmes – aimed at ensuring that those who are long-term beneficiaries of social assistance should enter into a contract, an agreement, with the authorities, where they should participate in some kind of activity. It can be Norwegian training, it can be a labour market course, and it can be a treatment scheme, just to get out of a situation where they are dependent on long-term social assistance. I don't think it's a good idea that all recipients of social assistance should have activity. Fortunately, most people are short-term recipients of social assistance for a few weeks or months. For long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, we should have a system, and that is the QA programme that is already under way, and which is an excellent system just to get people out of a long-term social assistance situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e218	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e221	The Prime Minister also said today that a high level of employment was important and that, based on high employment, some sick leave could actually be provided. But does not the Prime Minister also look at one of his proposals — where he wants to shift more of the costs to business — that we will have a working life that goes from inclusion to exclusion, in the sense that it becomes more difficult for people with disabilities, and not least chronically ill, to enter the labour market? In addition, Nav has a key role to play in following up the new healthcare practice, both to employees, to employers and not least to doctors. We are aware of the new measures put in place in 2007, but Nav has not yet used these sanctions. When can we expect Nav to have his systems in place and start to enforce the measures taken two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e228	At first I think I have to say a little about this with my suggestions. I have not made any suggestions, and it is even a written script – usually I do not read them, but exactly that I read. There we are very clear that this is not a proposal. But what that is is, first of all, that we're very clear that there's going to be full pay under illness, and that we're worried that sick leave is growing – especially it looks like it's growing this year. Thirdly, we refer to a number of possible actions that have been implemented in other countries and that have been discussed and launched, among others. in Norway. One of the measures discussed is to increase the responsibility of employers for the payment of long-term sick leave, and then to compensate them in some way. It was the Bondevik II government that tried without any particular luck, and we tried ourselves in 2006 without any particular luck. This time we're going to have a process that makes us -- if we do something in that direction -- get a better anchoring. We're going to have a better process to get us to a different set of employers' funding, but they're going to get it back in terms of compensation in other areas – if that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e235	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e238	What the Prime Minister has said today is the public, and in the mandate of this so-called expert selection to look at different measures, it is clear that the focus is on a more stringent framework, a clearer framework for the disease reporting practices of the Legans and an increase in the demands of the workers. It's not necessarily wrong medicine, but in recent times a debate has almost just focused on changing rules and administrative measures. It's a little surprising when we and the prime minister's employees in the government already have a thorough, professional assessment of what's going on to improve a new IA agreement. Already in the summer, SINTEF provided a thorough assessment of the entire IA agreement, where the main conclusion was that a need for more prevention, and it was a strong recommendation to focus on it. In fact, SINTEF said that if the efforts to get people back to work as quickly as possible went beyond the work of prevention and inclusion, then the actual end result could be more, no less. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that the focus comes on prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e245	The most serious thing about increased sick leave is that it affects the sick. The fact that thousands of people are long-term sick and often do not come back to work, but end up in some kind of permanent social welfare and in a disability situation, is the main problem for those people. In addition, it is a problem for employers who lose skilled, skilled labour, and then it is a problem for the community, because it costs billions of dollars. When I say this, it's because of course prevention is important, and of course it's among what we're going to look at now. The expert group to work does not have the time and opportunity to do substantial new research. They need to put together knowledge that already exists, go through it, and present it to the parties, so that we get the best decision-making basis possible. I am absolutely sure that we will look at many different measures, and I am very concerned that we do not lock ourselves in positions until we have looked at different measures – both in terms of prevention in relation to employers and employees. But what's established is that there's to be full pay under sickness. That's all that's for sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e253	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e256	I agree with the Prime Minister that being sick is the worst thing for someone who is sick. Getting out of it can be done in many ways. In the alternative budget of the Left, we have a proposal that we want to hear from the Prime Minister. This applies to all those who have a lot of sick leave due to a weight problem and who therefore want to take a slimming operation, which is a long queue to get in public. Then the company can go in and say, "We'd like to pay for that." We've seen examples from the media the last day where people have gone down from over 100 days of sick leave to zero. The price they have to pay to the public in order to do so is that they have to pay taxes for the employer to offer them that kind of treatment, which causes them to lose their sick leave. So my question is, is the Prime Minister willing to also use the tax system to try to reduce sick leave? Or, does the government have any of its own barriers to that particular instrument, when it turns out it works so well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e265	Firstly, I agree that obesity is a serious health problem. It is about both surgery and medical treatment, and it is about prevention, diet and lifestyles – both of them. For example, this is a matter of concern. to strengthen the public offer for the treatment of obesity or obesity. We are committed to strengthening the general offer, but then we also have the system of ‘returners’, which is, therefore, the money we have obtained through the IA agreement, which goes to the treatment of people who are sick. When it comes to the tax system, I have to say that I don't know how that kind of thing is treated in relation to this. I would like to get more information about and an assessment of it. It's essential that we make it possible for us to be able to deal with more people who have obesity problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e272	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e275	I want to talk about some of them that this day labors the most to master its everyday life. There are some of those who themselves are worn out, who have worn out their networks, and who are struggling most to get help from the public system. The queues for the treatment of these people are growing — there is a group of people who rarely go on torches for in some context. I'm talking about people struggling with their mental health. Norwegian Psychiatric Association now warns that several hospitals are taking money from the psychiatry and are putting it in deficit from other parts of the hospital operations. At the beginning of September, we read in the media that Sørlanden Hospital has been extracting 70 million in the last three years. kr from the earmarked psychiatric medicinal products for other purposes. This week, it's come to light that Ahus has drawn the surplus into the psychiatry of 16 million. kr in 2009 for other purposes. In addition, Aarhus has proposed to cut the budget by 30 million. Next year, close a district psychiatric bedpost and remove several emergency teams. It is proposed to remove the entire operation of adult psychiatry at Elvestad in Rome. The staff who fear the lives of the patients. Also from the hospitals elsewhere we get similar messages, while the NRK the other day reported that a study of children in Bergen shows that a total of six out of ten children who struggle with anxiety are not offered treatment. Under the red-green government, the earmarked grants to the psychiatry have been removed. Instead, the money has been put into the frames. We now see clear signs that some of the weakest who are most strongly represented among the sick, who are among the sickest who are growing fastest in number, are now losing in health cows. What will the Government do to prevent this development from spreading?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e284	First of all, I very much agree that psychiatric disorders are very serious. It is a very big health problem, and it has been a problem that has not been taken seriously enough for very many years. As a result, several governments, including the previous government, have been committed to strengthening the supply of treatment within the psychiatry. We got the pace plan for the psychiatry, which has been followed up both by the previous government and by this government. This is why more money is being allocated, more patients are being treated in psychiatric healthcare now than before, and significantly increased funds have been allocated. That doesn't mean that's enough, and that doesn't mean we can say we're satisfied with the situation. That's why it's both about seeing how we can further strengthen the offer, and how we can better organise it. In almost all debates on health, it is about both more money and better money. Norway spends a lot of money on health, but at the same time we don't get enough for all the money we spend on health. That also applies to the psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e291	I would like an answer to my question. This concerns the specific situation we are now seeing, after the government has removed earmarked money, which I would like to claim is better money than the framework in this context – and we are talking about weak groups. Many municipalities cut the offer to people with mental disorders, and several of the hospitals that the State owns and is responsible for managing, cut the offer to the most vulnerable groups in the case of people who are struggling with mental health. The Government will take action to prevent this, for example: by reintroducing ear markings and providing clear guidelines to hospitals that this type of degradation of psychiatry is not acceptable according to the escalation plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e298	Psychiatry is significantly enhanced. A lot of extra money has been allocated, and many more people are being treated. This does not mean that it is enough, and we can definitely continuously assess the arrangements, the distribution – how we set up the use of money. But I maintain that we've stepped up, and then we'll see if we can keep stepping up. Now, the Stortinget has just addressed the state budget for 2010, where there is a further strengthening of the health system in general — and thus also room for further escalation of psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e303	There will be three follow-up questions – first Laila Bavøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e306	It is that the evaluation of the Roadmap for Mental Health shows that quantitative targets have been achieved far by road, but that challenges remain, in particular, in terms of quality and content — and prevention is one of the weakest aspects of this plan. We know that earring, which we've been dealing with, was one of the most important instruments. In Health South-East, it is announced in these days that, in the case of non-profit institutions active in the field of old age psychiatry and mentally ill children and young people, they are to be put on the market. You don't want to go to direct acquisitions, as you actually can. You're even going in and you're just going to make two years' contracts. This is quite special, when the Government has promised for four years that it would return to the Storting with a case of assessing direct acquisitions. Is this fully iced up when regional health businesses can actually bid in 2009 with negotiations and the Government has not assessed what it has promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e313	I am very concerned that the Storting and the Government are trying to think in principle and try to control the big decisions. The moment the Storting or Government enters into individual decisions around Health-Norway, I think it's going to end very wrong. I do not know specifically what had been decided on in terms of tender and direct contract, or direct acquisition, so I do not dare comment directly. I'm just saying that we have to try to establish guidelines. We have to try to rule the board, and then we have to show responsibility to all the professionals – all the capable people who in Health-Norway are set to manage individual decisions within these frameworks. When I say that, it is because whether you are going to go to a direct purchase or whether you are going to use a tender in a single case, I believe Health Norway must be able to decide for itself. Then we decide how much money we have, we decide the general guidelines, and then that's what we relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e319	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e322	After the Psychiatric Surgery Plan was completed, the earring is gone, and the degradation of psychiatric beds mentioned here, we all see. One of the places where bed places disappear is at Ahus, where it is proposed to lay down a DPS bed post and an emergency team. At the same time, we see that the proposal for the closure of Aker has been adopted in the near future. That means that 160,000 potential patients are going to Ahus, which at the same time degrades. My question to the Prime Minister in that context will then be: Does he agree with the Labour Party's Marit Nybakk? In yesterday's newspaper, she says very precisely that it says in the Soria Moria statement that: ‘no local hospital shall be closed. If the plans to close Aker Hospital are maintained, the Minister of Health must intervene and stop it’. [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e332	There were many questions at once. First of all, psychiatry is strengthened, and then I know that Ahus has set up his own district psychiatric center – I've been visiting it myself – which is a very good offer. If they choose to re-prioritize resources from bed places to other types of offers, I don't know enough about it. The crucial thing is that they have increased frameworks, and that the psychiatry as a whole is strengthened. The evaluation shows that there has been a significant strengthening after we have implemented the psychiatry escalation plan. It is not uncommon for you to first have earmarked grants for a period of escalation, and once you have come up to a new level, you just remove the ringing in order to give more opportunity for local adaptation, and to spend the money on what has been considered to be the most important thing in the local area. In the case of Aker Hospital, there's a process. I think it's very important that that process be carried out. It is also just about the fact that the Stortinget and the Government have asked to look at the division of work between the various hospitals throughout the Oslo area. We had a merger of Health South-East and Health South, and I believe that is an important contraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e339	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e342	For people who are now losing their offer in the community, it is a poor comfort that the Prime Minister can boast of all the billions spent in this area. The waiting time for mentally ill people is increasing, and more and more mentally ill people have to wait in a healthy queue. Right Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen was the first Minister of Health to clearly announce that mental health protection and drug treatment should have a stronger growth than somatic to provide a better offer to those sitting at the bottom of the table. But during these four years that Stoltenberg has been prime minister, it is not a single year that all health regions can show that this has been followed up. The situation is now exacerbated by the increasing number of mentally ill people becoming balancing posts. An overall increase has provided for the strengthening of the supply of mental health protection. Will the Prime Minister prevent a reduction in mental health protection, or will the Government and health businesses continue to move forward without respect for the will of the elected representatives in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e349	I don't know all of the single examples that it refers to, and that are now in the media. But I think it is generally necessary to distinguish between what is referred to as cut and what is reorganization – changes in offers and priorities. For the total, there's no cut. Overall, there is a significant strengthening of Health Norway in general and psychiatry in particular, because we have implemented the psychiatry escalation plan. And so if it were true that there was a significantly lower offer, it would have been a very serious warning for all those who don't get a good offer, but also that after we've spent many billions of dollars and don't get a better offer, something serious is wrong with the way we organize the healthcare system. Fortunately, the evaluation of the psychiatry plan — the escalation plan — shows that we have received a better offer, that more people are receiving treatment, but still much can be done. So it's given a significant rise in psychiatry with the billions that are granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e357	There is today a range of alternative fuels for petrol and diesel. Bioethanol, biodiesel, biogas and electricity are the leading alternative fuels. In its previous four government budgets, the government has said that it wants to stimulate the increased use of these alternative fuels, and has highlighted tax exemptions as the main and best instrument. This approach has changed rapidly in the 2010 state budget — without any prior notice. Now the signals are that the polluter has to pay. The tax exemption is to be removed because no incentives are to be given to road traffic. Pollution shall be paid for road accidents, queues, road wear, etc. I will not tear up the debate on biodiesel again and try to take a rematch on it. I'm not going to rip up the way the Workers' Party here is turning the trick around in the use of instruments, nor is it the inconsistency that the Government on the one hand says that there are ethical aspects of biofuels that mean that it should not get tax exemptions, but at the same time increases the sales order. What is the important principle here, which I hope the Prime Minister may be ready for, is what kind of charging framework you can expect in the future for these fuels – that is for bioethanol, for biogas and for electricity. This is important, because many consumers consider buying electric cars because it has many economic benefits. We know that in the municipality of Oslo, investment in a biogas plant is estimated at 600 million. kr. to deliver to public transport. However, a prerequisite for such an investment, as the Government wants according to its climate rhetoric, is that the exemption is maintained, and that it is maintained in the long term and not just for one year at a time. What kind of predictability can the Prime Minister present for alternative fuels other than biodiesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e368	First, I would like to state that it is an important principle that the polluter pays. It's a principle that this government, and former governments, have stood upon. It is based on the idea that different types of fuels lead to different types of environmental problems, and it is to be paid for. It contributes to two things: firstly, it helps to reduce the extent of this type of pollution, and secondly, it helps to secure revenue from the single fund which can be used either for environmental or other good purposes. The Bondevik government, for example: present their own proposal on green taxes, where they say: ‘In view of a cost-effective pricing objective, all fuels should be subject to an external-cost charge. This also applies to biofuels. Regardless of environmental characteristics, all fuels should be subject to a charge covering the external costs of road and accident.» So the polluter pays principle – the principle of paying for the environmental problems created by different types of fuels – is a principle that many governments have stuck to. And since the questioner talks a lot about biofuels, I have to stress that biofuels also lead to some types of environmental problems, for example. local environmental problems such as noise, particulate matter, dust, and also NOx – acid rain. Providing this type of fuel over $4 in tax relief so that it becomes cheaper than normal fuel will lead to more pollution, more road traffic and would be contrary to the principle of many governments. In the case of other fuels, what we have said about the principle is exactly in line with what other governments have said. In the case of biogas, there is a very special type of fuel that does not have the environmental problems such as: biodiesel, because we don't have the area problem. Biogas comes from garbage and is therefore a much simpler fuel to deal with in terms of climate, simply because you don't have problems with deforestation when you use garbage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e385	I notice that the Prime Minister avoids answering the essence of the question. The polluter-pays principle has been agreed upon by everyone, but there has also been a general agreement that there should be a tax exemption during a phase-in period. It has also been the government's policy, which the Prime Minister now strongly argues against. He'll just have to remember that. I also agree with the Prime Minister's scepticism about biofuels. I wish the government had had that scepticism intact when the climate announcement was discussed and they started to impose sales obligations on biofuels without certification. But the point that I'm trying to raise here, and which I hope the Prime Minister can focus on instead, is what predictability it's going to be for the other alternative fuels, which the Government has so far said they want a tax exemption to stimulate their increased use. We know that if someone now, after the uncertainty created by the Government regarding biodiesel, dares to invest, for example. in a biogas plant in Oslo, they must know that this exemption persists over time. Because no one wants to invest 600 million. NOK if there is a charge for the next year. What advice does the Prime Minister of Oslo have in relation to predictability of the framework conditions of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e394	We're talking about a lot of different charges. Firstly, I would say that there are two other countries that, as far as we have an overview of, have had a general exemption. It's Sweden and Germany. Germany removed the exemption in 2007. Sweden has notified that it will be removed by 2012. So former governments have had exactly the same principle as this government. What has to be gone in any case is the CO2 tax, and especially for the fuel types to which the representative refers. Thus, while biodiesel obviously has climate emissions, it is not CO2 emissions from e.g. biogas or electric cars, and therefore, of course, there shall be a zero CO2 tax on those fuels. That's what we're thinking about, and it's going to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e411	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e414	I'm going to be very concrete and very clear, and short and concise. Can the Prime Minister now guarantee a biogas plant in Oslo and secure the framework conditions for it – or can he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e421	It would be totally wrong for a government to guarantee a plant in a single municipality. What I can say is that those who have environmentally friendly fuels will have tax advantages. The main tax advantage that biogas plants will have when using biogas is that they will have a zero CO2 tax. The CO2 tax we have to reduce CO2 emissions, and since it is a zero CO2 emission from this type of fuel, they will have a zero CO2 tax. But if they have other types of environmental problems, I can't guarantee forever that we won't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e441	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e444	The Prime Minister has been asked more questions about when we can expect a tax on fuels that are currently free of charge, for example. electric cars, biogas, bioethanol. When can we expect such a fee? This is a concrete question, and it's about predictability. It is about predictability for consumers, and it is about predictability for those who are to invest in these different technologies. So when can we expect a fee, for example? for electric cars, for cars running on bioethanol – going on biofuels? I can then say to the Prime Minister that Mini is coming by electric car as well, so maybe this question is of interest to him too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e449	Now you talk like there's one charge in Norway. Either you have the fee – with large A – or you don't have the fee. In the right you have to be aware that there are many charges in Norway. Some have some, some have many, and some have few. That's the way it's done for different reasons. This means, for example: that electric cars do not have CO2 tax, and, to put it that way, I never think any government is going to think about charging an electric car CO2 tax, because it is difficult to justify that there is any particular CO2 emissions from electric cars. However, electric cars have an electricity charge – which they also had under the right control – and they have VAT, so it is not such that it is a zero charge. It is not that you either have a fee or you do not have a fee. You have some taxes and no other charges, and what I say is that cars that contribute to a cleaner environment should have less taxes than those cars that do not contribute to a cleaner environment. And I believe that those who do not emit CO2 will not have a CO2 tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e469	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e472	I record that the Prime Minister starts this round of questions with a quote from ten years ago. I want to quote something a little bit newer. It's from the climate agreement, a forward-looking deal, which is good, and which I think the Prime Minister also thinks is good, because it was important for the Government to make this deal with large sections of the opposition. Let me quote point 6.10: «The parties agree to continue working on the green conversion of vehicle-related taxes/taxes and other regulation affecting road traffic and promoting low-emission and zero-emission options.» Does the Prime Minister generally agree that charging environmentally friendly fuels such as biogas, biodiesel, bioethanol, hydrogen or electricity is in line with this good and forward-looking policy, which also promotes low-emission and zero-emission alternatives that we agreed on 17 January 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e482	Fuels shall be taxed according to the environmental problems they create. The ones that, for example, reducing CO2 emissions shall have a lower or zero CO2 charge. This applies to many types of alternative fuels, and of course we do. For biodiesel, the challenge is that CO2 emissions are not zero. I think everyone agrees that this is part of CO2 emissions. Some actually believe that emissions are larger than normal diesel, a little depending on how you have produced this diesel. It varies from biodiesel type to biodiesel type. Nevertheless, we have made sure that there is zero CO2 tax on biodiesel in general. Then we've been very concerned about introducing what is called sustainability criteria to try to distinguish between the biodiesel that is environmentally friendly and the one that is less environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e504	Let's go to the next main question. This will be the last main question in today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e507	Last night in Norway, President Obama gave his speech, telling us that the Americans are sending 30,000 more soldiers to Afghanistan. In that speech, the President was also concerned that what he has spent his presidency on in Afghanistan has been, in particular, improving coordination between civil and military efforts. It is also in line with the strategy that the ISAF commander-in-command, General McCrystal, came along a while ago. The point is to achieve better coordination, better coordination and more holistic civil and military efforts. The Netherlands, for example, has placed its PRT under civil command and works after the mantra that it should be as civil as possible and as military as necessary. The Norwegian Government has adopted a strategy for Norway's involvement where there are nearly watertight bulkheads between the civil and military sides. We are constantly from the soldiers who are in Afghanistan, about how what seems right on the paper here at home is not working on the ground in Afghanistan. Military operations to strengthen security are not followed by sufficient rapid and good civil efforts. The defence has no means of contributing to or using comprehensive and flexible solutions. It becomes so that one hand often does not know what the other does, and the effect of the effort, both civil and military, is weakened. How will the Prime Minister ensure that the Norwegian contributions, both civil and military, can be better coordinated, cooperate better, and by doing so contribute to the success of the Afghans and our allies in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e519	I believe that one of the very positive and important things about Obama's speech tonight is that he emphasises that the Americans should be clearly and strongly present in Afghanistan, both military and civil, and that both types of action should be stepped up and underlined the need for coordination. This is important for Afghanistan. It's important to the United States. However, it is also important for Norway that our foremost ally emphasises the need for coordination of military and civil efforts. Norway may have long been the country that has been most obvious that we need military action, but that we also need a significant civil effort. We contribute significantly civilly. We also contribute financially to the establishment of Afghan military and Afghan security forces. We have a significant military contribution of our own. The important thing now is that with both civil and military efforts, we make the Afghans themselves able to take care of their own security. It is only in the long run that can lead to a stable development in Afghanistan. Then, of course, we are concerned about how we can further strengthen and improve the Norwegian coordination of our own military and civil efforts. We have an ongoing dialogue about this and an ongoing assessment of how best to achieve it. But we are at the same time concerned that we should not create problems for, for example. humanitarian organisations and the principle that humanitarian and military efforts should not be mixed in such a way as to create risks expose humanitarian organisations to unnecessary risks. We're continuing to coordinate. We are there significantly, militarily and civilly. We believe that Obama's speech just adds up to a transfer of responsibility to the Afghans themselves. We believe that that is the only long-term answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e532	There is no one who has spoken of a combination of humanitarian and military efforts, but on the contrary of civil and military efforts, which must necessarily be better coordinated. I note that the Prime Minister is now talking about strengthening the need for coordination. It is important that our allies emphasise the need for coordination of civil and military efforts. Despite insurance, we see that Norway is in line with ever fewer of our allies, precisely because we continue to maintain a watertight bulkhead and a fundamental distinction, which the Government often talks about, between civil and military efforts. In the morning hours today, the response of the European Union came to President Obama's speech. It states that they stress that positive developments will require a combination of political, military, civil and development policy instruments. The question is: how will the Prime Minister bring Norway more into line with our allies in the Afghanistan strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e543	At first, I think many countries can learn from each other in terms of efforts in Afghanistan. We can certainly get inspiration and experience from what you have done, for example. from the EU country. However, Norway has received a lot of recognition that we have been very clear and very strong in terms of civil action — both in terms of combating corruption, in terms of humanitarian aid, and in terms of development in general. But it will be a priority task in the weeks to come, to look at how we can achieve a better coordination mechanism in general in terms of the military and civil efforts of the international community in Afghanistan, and also to make international expertise more accessible to those who are trying to do this job in Afghanistan today. A problem we've had is, for example, that the UN has had problems with recruitment. There have been problems getting people hired. There have simply been problems doing the job you want to do, and we need to look at how we can do the UN better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e548	Three follow-up questions will then be raised – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e551	I sometimes find it difficult to fully understand what the Prime Minister answers to a number of questions in the Questionnaire, so I just thought I should simply ask again what was at the heart of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide's question: Will the Government look with new eyes at the issue of a distinction between civil and military action in Afghanistan, possibly to coordinate this better – in contrast to what they have done in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e556	Yes, we will constantly look at how we can achieve better coordination of civil and military efforts. What we're concerned about is to avoid getting into a situation where we create problems for humanitarian organisations. They're concerned about it themselves, and we agree with them in that. However, it is fully possible to achieve better coordination between civil action and military action, both in Norway's efforts, and not least in the United Nations' efforts to coordinate efforts. There are obviously some challenges. We are in dialogue with the UN. We are in dialogue with our allies about how we can achieve better coordination, and we always have open eyes to see how it can be done better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e563	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e566	I noticed that the Prime Minister stressed that it was important for Norway that Obama and the United States now launch this offensive in Afghanistan. I agree. But then it's strange that the government, Norway and several other allies do not seem to meet the wish of both McCrystal and so far Obama and NATO for increased strength contributions. So now it looks like Norway just wants to continue its commitment. At the same time, it seems that we will terminate the frigate who is in the Gulf of Aden. The sum of these figures clearly shows that there are major weaknesses in the overall Norwegian defence capabilities and that this is why Norway cannot better address its allies in important foreign operations. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Will he soon take action to strengthen Norwegian defence capabilities, which unfortunately have been severely reduced during this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e573	Norwegian defence capabilities are strengthened through the long-term defence plan, and the Government is following it, both with the changes it requires and with the appropriations it requires. Norway also contributes significantly to the military and civil situation in Afghanistan. Compared to the population, Norway is among the most important contributors. I still think you should be concerned not only with counting the number of soldiers – we will maintain the high Norwegian contribution – but also with looking at what kind of soldiers we have. In recent times we have been very twisted towards more officers, more soldiers with long experience, precisely because they can provide more training and training to their own Afghan forces. That is what will provide security in Afghanistan in the long run: that the Afghans themselves will be able to take care of their own security. It's also a main message from Obama. Norway is thus more committed to training and training Afghan forces. There might be more expensive operations, there might be more experienced soldiers, there might be more officers. So, although the number is not increasing, it is more important when we can then contribute to the training of Afghan forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e580	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e583	My question is about Norway's contribution. Firstly, is it that the Prime Minister in the wake of President Obama's statement tonight expects an increase in pressure on Norway to expand his contribution in Afghanistan, be it civil or military? My second question concerns the role of the United Nations. As the Prime Minister had in mind in one of his answers, the UN is under considerable pressure and criticism. UN personnel have been attacked. My question is: what can Norway do to strengthen the United Nations' coordinating role so that it becomes more focused, more operational and becomes more competent in relation to the very complex tasks that the United Nations currently has in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e591	We have not received direct contact with increasing Norwegian contributions in addition to the general enquiry made by NATO’s Secretary-General to all NATO countries, i.e. not a direct contact to Norway. I'm very sure that, for example. The US authorities are well aware of the Norwegian positions, because we have had close dialogue with them in the last few days. Among other things, the Foreign Minister has spoken to Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton. They know that we're contributing significantly, and they also know that we're turning our efforts towards more training, which is the key. In addition, we contribute significantly financially, not only to civil efforts, but also to the training of the Afghan army and police forces – a significant financial contribution to this. When it comes to strengthening civil efforts, one of the main challenges I was facing is the problem of recruiting people and expertise. This is partly about the security situation, and partly about the UN's difficulty in making decisions and recruiting people. Now we have close dialogue – the Minister for Foreign Affairs is active in that dialogue – to see how we can better organise civil efforts in Afghanistan, so that we avoid the unnecessary bureaucratic problems we face, among other things. UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e598	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e604	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Mette Hanekamhaug to the Minister of Knowledge, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered before question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, is postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Question 7, from the representative of Terje Halleland to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question will be raised by Mr Solvik-Olsen. Question 9, by Mr Borghild Tenden, to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by Mr Abid Q. Raja. Question 13, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e633	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e639	My question goes to the Minister of Defence: ‘The opposition pointed out during the examination of the defence’s long-term report in June 2008 that the closure of the Madlaleir was a waste of Community resources. From a well-informed team in Defense, it is now reported that the closure of the Madlaleir creates financial problems for the Defense. Can the Council of State confirm that the Defence will not carry out such closure and that the Maritime Defense Recruitment School is not being moved to the Wolf and the Air Force Recruitment School is not being moved to Kjevik?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e653	Through the examination of the current long-term defence plan, Stortinget decided to lay down Madla camp and move the training of the Naval Defence and Air Force personnel to Bergen and Kjevik respectively. This measure was thoroughly investigated in the Defence Study and recommended by the Defence Manager. The underlying economic calculations have also been externally quality-secured. These estimates show that the move is economically viable and will help to reduce operating costs in the long term. These conditions were explained in the current long-term proposition. I would also like to stress that the main reason for the action was to better facilitate the development of robust and sustainable educational environments in the defence sectors. The costs contained in our plans are in line with the assumptions presented to the Storting in the now adopted long-term plan. Conversion costs related to the measure have also been taken into account in these plans. As part of the preparation of the implementation of the move, the Ministry of Defence is now reviewing and quality assurance of all prerequisites. This is fully in line with other measures in the long-term plan. It is still planned that the transfer will be completed by the end of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e662	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is not entirely right that the cost frameworks presented in the examination of the long-term plan should be maintained. Former state councillor Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen just before she left as a state councillor, said that the transfer of headquarters from Jåttå to Reitan had cost gaps. Then I ask the Council of State to consider how much cost will be spent when the Storting decision on the implementation of the 2008 long-term plan is concluded – the total, how much are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e671	I have tried to explain the cost calculations underlying the proposal in the long-term plan, and how this also provides the basis for the decisions taken in the Stortinget. Of course, the Ministry of Defence generally guarantees the quality of the calculations, so that we have the best basis for implementing the decision, as planned for the period up to 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e678	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. When we had the long-term plan for treatment, it was made very clear from the opposition that costs could not be verified. Then one replied that the quality was ensured by an international audit and economics company. It's a little strange to hear that the department is now going to ensure this quality when it's already done. Wasn't the quality good enough? Obviously, the speech is big.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e685	I understand that there may be a need to review the routines of this, and how this is done, historically. It is true that the proposals made were based on the fact that a quality assurance body had also been involved in the process, and that, as usual, new reviews are needed to ensure that the implementation of the decision is carried out with the best possible, and up-to-date, the cost of the conversion. This is also about establishing a new recruitment training system, which is an essential part of this Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e690	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e703	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e709	‘There have been more recent developments and proposals from Health Vest and Health Bergen on the Bergensklinik Foundation’s offer to drug addicts who have created uncertainties about this activity and who indicate that the State plans to take over several of the tasks itself. What will the Council of State do specifically to remove this uncertainty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e716	I am pleased that the drug field and the situation of drug addicts and their relatives receive broad cross-political attention. Private operators who have an agreement with the regional health establishments provide about 60 pst. the capacity of drug addicts in the specialist health service within the day-to-day treatment process. The high proportion shows that private actors have a central place in the drug field. I am – like the representative Höie – concerned that the private actors should have good and predictable conditions. Regional health enterprises are responsible for providing specialist health services to the population in their region. This means that it is up to regional health businesses to assess the needs they have to purchase private services. The representative, Höie, raises questions about a possible uncertainty about the situation of the Bergensklinikken Foundation. Health Vest RHF has briefed me that a large part of the region's responsibilities in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts are being cared for by private institutions. The agreements expire on 31 December 2010 and have had a duration of three plus three years. According to the Public Acquisitions Code, Health West has to carry out a new acquisition process during the spring of 2010. I am informed that the Board of Health West is currently going to deal with its own case on the leadership of this procurement process. The matter is not public. The reason is that the board will discuss strategic choices for the procurement process and that they will avoid that potential providers receive different information. The Management Board shall also discuss which services are to be included in the procurement process, who can participate, where the services are to be provided and what types of contracts are to be used. Health West has also briefed me that a greater proportion of the growth in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts has been added to health businesses in 2009. However, there is no general desire to reduce the volume of services provided by private institutions in the region. The reason is that it has been important to strengthen the provision of healthcare companies in developing this field — not least in order to meet the needs of drug addicts for services from other specialised health services. It is also important to reduce the purchase of guest places outside the region. I am informed that there are discussions about transferring the responsibility for patients from Sunnhordland from the Bergensklinikken Foundation to Health Fonna. According to Health West, the Bergen Clinics have not expressed any disagreement about such a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e731	There are a number of proposals that have also been put forward in the media, which are not outside the public domain, suggesting that Health Bergen and Health West have clear plans to move activities from the Bergen clinics to their own activities. One of the conditions that they intend to relocate is the assessment of rights issues related to Ruspacents. It is also a matter that is being dealt with by the Board of Health West today. Health West is the region with the worst supply of drug addicts and most violations of patient rights. In the board case of Health Vest, one quite concretely says that the reason for moving the assessment unit to Health Bergen is to get a lower number of deadlines than what you have today, i.e., in clear words: One introduces worse patient rights for this patient group. I have to ask the Minister for Health: is this in line with Stortinget's intention in Rusreform II?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e740	Getting a lower number of deadlines must be desirable, because we want more people to be treated. It is quite right that Health West has too poor an offer for drug addicts, and that is precisely why it is said to keep that proportion of private people. But you also need to build something more, and you need to build up health care businesses in order for them to also discharge their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e747	The point of my question is that Health West and Health Bergen consider that the reason for the deadlines is that the Bergen clinics are likely to assess the patient rights within the meaning of the Stortinge, namely that these patients should have the same rights as all other patients, and that the transfer to Health Bergen for assessment – not for treatment – will mean that fewer patients will have patient rights, and that this will result in fewer deadlines. Does the Minister of Health think that it makes sense for Health West to adopt a strategy that reduces time limits, because one assesses it on the basis of economic considerations, and not on the basis of professional considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e752	I believe that the representative Höie and I have a very similar opinion that we need to build up the offer for drug addicts in the Health West. All the summaries of the different regional health companies show that there is the worst offer in Health West, that it is not good enough, and that there is a job here for the health company, both Health West and the local health companies, to do in caring for their responsibilities towards this patient group, and to have a broad and organised responsibility. The aim is to be able to provide a better range of services to more people. So it's the regional health company that's responsible for its region, and they have to make an assessment of it. But they clearly say that they will have to have the same share of private even in the future. In addition, they also need to establish more specialisation themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e760	‘The government provides in the State budget a special loan framework for the purchase of land at Gullaug in Buskerud. More than 20 years have passed since political environments in Eastfold began work on a single new hospital in Eastfold. Can the Council of State guarantee that re-entry and sufficient capacity in Eastfold are not left behind hospital expansion in Buskerud?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e767	This should be a simple question to answer. As the representative Schou refers to, it has been proposed a loan framework of 250 million. kr to possible land purchase at Gullaug in Buskerud in the State budget for 2010. However, in the budget term, we have stressed that the proposed loan allocation does not involve a change in the order of priority for hospital projects in Health South-East. According to the health company model, the regional health company is responsible for planning, carrying out the necessary assessments and prioritising hospital projects in its health region — in this case Health South-East. The Board of Health South-East considered the matter of prioritising investment projects in December 2008. This was followed up at the Governing Board meeting in June 2009, where the Board of Health South-East approved the draft plans for the new Eastfold Hospital and decided to launch the project. This is the final phase before construction starts. New Eastfold Hospital is therefore the project that is first in the loop in Health South-East. Therefore, the proposed loan allocation for possible land purchase at Gullaug in Buskerud does not change the order of priority for investment projects in Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e776	Thanks for the answer. During the current government and the previous period's government, the accumulated deficit of regional health companies has increased to a little more than DKK 25 billion. It includes depreciation and pension costs. There are significant challenges in health businesses both to ensure that operations are in balance and at the same time to meet the need for new investments. Now I hear the Council of State say that it is the regional health companies that have the overall responsibility for both operation and investment. Then I wonder what is the state council's reason for suddenly making such a priority and providing a loan framework for the purchase of a plot in Buskerud and not mentioning the priority of building a new Eastfold hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e787	As I said in my post, we have underlined that the proposed loan does not involve a change in the order of priority for hospital projects in Health South-East. That should be clear enough. Here it was about securing an empty, so it's a given loan amounting to 250 million. kr to it. But it's not about building hospitals there first. The order of priority adopted both in December 2008 and June 2009 is determined. That's when the Eastfold Hospital is first in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e792	I thank you once again for your answer. The Health and Welfare Committee gave its opinion yesterday, stressing that the purchase of land represents a political priority. Although Health South-East has planned and given priorities to the various hospital buildings, the government has not done so. The size has not been presented with an overall priority list of the major investments to be made in new buildings in this country. There is one thing that is right: you have an administrative priority, the governance of regional health companies is making a priority, but we do not have the government's priority. As I see it, it is a political abdication from taking political overall action not to allow the Stortinget to present itself with an overall investment overview of what is important and prioritised new hospital buildings seen by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e801	Suggesting a loan framework, offering a loan for the purchase of a land, is not the same as starting construction tomorrow. We have stressed in the budget section that the proposed loan allocation, i.e. the 250 million. kr, does not imply changes in the order of priority for hospital projects in Health South-East. I can't say it stronger than that. That is what lies on the part of the Government, and after what has also been said from Health South-East, it is the hospital in Eastfold that lies first in the priority queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e811	This question, from the representative of Terje Halleland to the Minister for the Environment and Development, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. The question will be raised by Mr Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e814	‘The argument about the imposition of a biodiesel charge included that these cars contribute equally to road wear, queue and the like, and that it was natural with a fee based on the polluter pays principle. How does the Government practice the polluter pays principle against electric cars?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e821	Road traffic causes costs to society in terms of accidents, queues, noise, road wear, and health and environmental damage to air. These costs may be relatively large. It is in line with the polluter-pays principle that car users cover these costs of paying user charges. Today's user charges include only petrol and diesel. New alternative fuels that are not defined as petrol or diesel will thus fall outside the scope of the charging obligation. The government therefore stated in the 2007 State budget that it may be necessary over time to impose user charges on alternative fuels that are currently free of charge. On the other hand, the Government has not taken a decision on when to impose such charges. One has also stated that climate-neutral fuels will not pay the CO2 tax. This was some of the reasons why bioethanol was exempted from the CO2 tax in 2006. The Government is committed to facilitating the sustainable use of environmentally friendly fuels through research and development, through the design of charges for the use and purchase of cars and through the introduction of sustainability criteria for biofuels. For the Government, it is not appropriate to impose a specific user charge on electric cars at the level of the taxes on petrol and diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e840	I think the last thing was clarifying, and I would like the Council of State to also clarify how long the deviation from the principle will apply. Because when the Government in the context of climate and the environment asks people to use an environmentally friendly form of transport or to use environmentally friendly fuels – at least when it is defined as environmentally friendly by the Government itself – very many people feel cheated if the tax exemption lapses the following year. Especially electric cars, which have free toll and free parking, and which do not pay an annual fee, are in contrast to e.g.: caravans, which I believe will wear less on the roads than electric cars. But the long-termity of the signals – and a positive signal, I have to underline – is nevertheless important, so that you avoid people feeling cheated. Can the Council of State say anything about it – is it a five-year period, is it a three-year period, is it a seven-year period – and does it elaborate a little?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e845	The fees for 2010 have just been adopted by the Stortinget. Then, according to the Budgetary Regulations and the Constitution, taxes and levies are adopted for one year at a time. No Council of State — and in particular the Minister of Finance — can say what kind of tax arrangements are included in a budget that has not been discussed in the Government or that has been submitted. It is therefore impossible to answer the question that the representative is now asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e850	This, I think, was a little more discouraging. For example: in the case of blending biofuels, the Government has had a strategy that goes forward many years in time. In the case of health care staff, elderly care, the Government has had a long-term vision and strategy about so and so many people, even if one does not enter and bind the direct budget appropriations in 2015 or 2018. But one says, what does one want? One could have given a strategy, one could have given a five- or ten-year plan that says that on it and that type of alternative fuel we consider that it and that kind of incentive must exist, and we guarantee that if we can decide for ourselves – and that is what a majority government can do with a good conscience – we will work to ensure that the tax exemption adheres to, for example. in 2014. Then there will be a phase-in period of three years. It provides a horizon that an investor can take into account and that a consumer can take into account. And even if you don't make the decisions, you can give a guarantee that will last, at least if you get a wide deal in the back of the Storting. Could not such a signal be given if not otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e855	I understand the question and, to this extent, the reason for it, but I must insist that the annual proposals for tax decisions will be included in the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e860	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e866	This question, from the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e869	«The furniture industry is strongly affected by the crisis in which several export companies are now located. This necessitates significant changes in an industry which has to change at all times from fluctuations in the market. This suggests that the Innovation Furniture programme has been very important for this industry. Unfortunately, doubts have now been raised as to whether this programme will continue and not least to what extent. Will the Council of State ensure that this programme continues at least at the same level in 2010 as in 2009?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e876	So I'm answering on behalf of the Minister of Industry. The government wants to support the innovation and internationalisation of the Norwegian furniture industry – and it is especially heavy and crucial on Sunnmare, it is driven by a lot of good activity aimed at building furniture there, and it is still important. The Government has therefore decided to continue financing by the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Innovation Furniture programme. The Ministry's mission to Innovation Norway in this field will be specified in the 2010 letter of assignment. At the same time, this programme has been financed by funds both from Innovation Norway and from industry. Furthermore, the funds from Innovation Norway have been committed by both the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the municipality of More and Romesdal. Therefore, in order to be able to continue the programme at the same level as before, it is dependent on other actors also maintaining their funding. Based on this, it will be up to Innovation Norway and the furniture industry to look at the possibilities and, where appropriate, to make further cooperation concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e885	It was at least nice that the Minister of Justice had time to respond on behalf of the Minister of Industry, who is probably on the move. You have to take that over. I understand, of course, that the Minister of Justice may not be able to answer all the details of what I am going to ask for, for which I have full respect. But what is important is that the Council of State takes back to the Minister of Industry and the Government in the context of further work on this, is that a rapid clarification is needed. Now I do not know when the mission document and the letter will go to Innovation Norway. In the budget relating to the Trade Committee, Innovation Furniture is not mentioned in one word, and it is an ominous signal. So my question to the Council of State is, can the Council of State say a little about the level of this programme? This has varied greatly through the phase-in and the completion of the project. Can the Council of State say something about what level you want to put on in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e892	First of all, I have to say that I think the answer that has now come is very positive. We often do the thing in politics that you get a negative focus, but I have to say that it is positive that you now aim in the letter of assignment for this action to continue. I'm very happy about that. I think that's very important. But I have to leave to the Ministry of Economic Affairs to design what's going to be in the letter of assignment, even in terms of scope, seams if I notice that the department now answers that you have ambitions to continue this at the same level as before. I will take with me the signals from the representative Nesvik that this deserves as soon as possible clarification, back to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e899	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Clearly, I am glad that this is a positive answer. The problem is that nothing can be said — at least for the moment — about the level of this aid, either when it will be finally clarified. It is clear that if support is to be like – I kept saying – the tail program you had at the end, in 2008-2009, of 5 million. kr, this is something quite different from what was intended in the program itself, asking for 50 million. Over two years, so that this industry can be transformed into more competitive in the coming years. I also believe that the Minister of Justice, and not least the Minister of Industry, sees the problems that this export-oriented industry is going to face in the years that are coming as well. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the Minister of Industry in this respect also signal that it is important to keep support at a relatively high level?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e908	This is what we're going to take with us. It is quite obvious that the furniture industry is perhaps one of the most sensitive industries — at least very sensitive — in relation to the fluctuations in the economy that we have seen. We've seen that historically too: it's really gone up and down with the furniture industry, whether it's in the Sykylven or on the Stranda or around; we've seen it on Sunnmare for many, many years. While it is sensitive to fluctuations in the economy, we also know that the furniture industry has been a carrier in the business sector, especially in Sunnmaere. It is absolutely essential that much of this can be continued. So we're going to take these signals with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e913	Then we go to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e920	‘There is considerable and valuable work to be done in criminal matters. How will the Council of State contribute to increasing research on the impact of housing in Norwegian prisons, with special emphasis on what can reduce relapses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e925	Let me first say that I believe that this question is one of the most important questions we can ask in criminal policy. We have a very big focus on discovering crime, a very big focus on the number of police and police resources out there, and to some extent also a great focus on how long people will sit and zone. However, there is a lack of debate about the measures we are taking, particularly now that we are putting in place many new measures in the field of criminal justice, which the questioner also asks about. So I believe that this is really something there is reason to thank the asker for pulling into the Storting. In St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, Punishment that works — less crime — safer societies, the criminal health report, which was discussed in April, shows that we want to have a research-based criminal service. It is a continuation of the Ministry of Justice's long-standing work to evaluate the impact of various measures in criminal matters in the context of relapse. This research has been carried out in part by Norwegian researchers. At the same time, Norwegian criminal services have benefited for many years from Nordic and other international research in this area. The Ministry of Justice is a contributor to the Nordic Crime Cooperation Council, which ensures that prison research is still under development, including in the case of relapses. In particular, the Research Dissemination Board contributes, on the one hand, through its own research journal and, on the other, through annual research seminars. Since the 1980s, we have cooperated in research with the criminal administration of the other Nordic countries, including the production of common Nordic statistics. As part of this, there will be a joint Nordic report in the course of the year, especially with statistics on relapses. So, are the measures we use quite a lot of resources working on, and are they preventing relapse, which is the main goal? The report will describe key characteristics of the relapse groups and identify relapse risk groups and describe similarities and differences between Nordic countries. The content of the report will form the basis for new research hypotheses and projects. In 2010, one of the researchers at the Education Centre of Crime Prevention, KRUS, will focus on the Norwegian relapse groups in order to identify and eliminate risk factors. Nordic prison research cooperation will continue in the coming years. Then we have evaluation research, such as, among other things, has been provided by the Educational Centre of Criminal Welfare. It is very important when we put in place new measures, in particular against electronic home soning, which we now need to evaluate and which we are doing well. The Ministry of Justice has also ‘purchased’ research by other research institutions — now most recently the Central Bureau of Statistics, which has looked directly at the relationship between rehabilitation and relapse. Currently, the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research is in the process of evaluating the implementation of the return guarantee. This research plan is intended to go over three years and be financed by the Ministry of Justice's own research funds, and the first report will be available at the turn of the year. I could also mention more, without time allowing it, but I stress that this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e942	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that the Council of State is very concerned about this, and I can assure you that it is also we in the Right. Crime prevention is to carry out criminal responses that are socially sound and are designed to counteract repeated criminal offences. Then it's important that criminal services invite an interaction between themselves, i.e. the criminal services, the prisoners and society outside the prison. We see that the criminal driving forces in society change over time, while also changing society over time. Then it's important that, in criminal matters, we do what works, so that we reduce the total crime. In order for us here in the United Kingdom to make budgetary and judicial policy priorities, it is important that we have an overview of this. And my question to the Council of State is, how can we address research the changing times and challenges of justice policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e949	This is about getting a knowledge-driven criminal policy and not an incident. That's the reality the representative lives in, and that's the reality the Minister of Justice is living in -- I don't know about any field that is more marked by events than the justice field. That's why it's so good that this is lifted up in the Biggest. We need to be more clearly political, both in the political direction of the department when ordering research and how much money we need to spend on it, and not least here in the United Kingdom when giving money and taking action, whether it is a judge-led drug programme, a whole new response, it is home soning with electronic control, or it is a return guarantee. We have made sure in all of these areas – and I think that must be my answer – that there is some way to do so. But we also have to be clear in the order letters in relation to what we want to get out of it. That's especially how to prevent relapses we're looking for. We believe that this is one of the most important objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e954	I also thank you now for the answer. This is complicated, we're aware of that. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the voluntary organisations and the efforts of many non-governmental organisations in the service of criminal law, with repatriation and alternative forms of reconciliation. My final question to the Council of State is how we can also make the impact of the offers and the work done by the voluntary organisations, such as WayBack, Red Cross, Fretex Elevator and others, that we know well. How can this be made visible as alternatives in a good reconciliation offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e961	When we initiate research in this area and ask for research, whether it is on our own or – I look at the Minister of Higher Education – in consultation with other departments, is it precisely because we want to see: is what we are doing? With regard to voluntary organisations, there is no secret that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we should strengthen the efforts of volunteers in this field, and that has been done in recent years. In the wake of it, it's also important to see if this works. Look at the Visitor Service of the Red Cross: Is it significant in relation to relapse? I mean, it obviously has it, but it would be very interesting to see if it works. Look at WayBack, an organisation that has been given a significant boost in recent years – there is a cross-political consensus about it in the Stortinget – and that works in a completely different way from the traditional criminal justice system. If we get the answer to the question of whether such measures work, then we have absolutely great opportunities in Norwegian criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e973	This question, from the representative Borghild Tende to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Abid Q. Raja.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e976	‘The Council of State has previously been in favour of setting up an international law firm in Norway. Such an office can handle different issues where Nordics are involved in crime abroad. What is the progress in establishing such an International Affairs Office in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e983	I have been committed to developing Nordic cooperation in criminal proceedings, with particular emphasis on coordinating the investigation of war crimes. We are in a situation where Norwegian citizens or people living in Norway may be suspected of participating in criminal proceedings in connection with acts of war in their original country of origin. In a Nordic context, in my opinion, there are good opportunities to create more effective cooperation arrangements to resolve cross-border disputes. However, creating a common Nordic prosecution unit is not currently an agreement in the Nordic region. On behalf of the Nordic Foreign Ministers, Thorvald Stoltenberg investigated Nordic foreign and defence cooperation. A report with recommendations was presented earlier this year. One of his recommendations was to set up an investigation unit to coordinate Nordic investigations into genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by people living in the Nordic countries. Such a unit will not have supranational authority. There has been a consensus in the Nordic region that further consideration should be given to this issue. An inquiry into the main issues at stake has been made by the Norwegian national lawyer and has been sent to the other Nordic countries for consultation. I am of the opinion that stronger regional cooperation in this area will gradually grow. Exploration of war crimes committed in distant heavens is resource-intensive, at the same time the situation is that suspects and witnesses from the conflict areas in question are often scattered around the Nordic region. Coordination of the investigation clearly allows for significant gains. This concerns, among other things: on international crime of discrimination and war crimes. We have also discussed cooperation in the Nordic region on human trafficking, investigation of online images of abuses, etc. But there are different perceptions of how far one should go in relation to supranationality in this area, and it is a great canvas to pale. Then I have been concerned that when Norwegian citizens commit criminal acts abroad, there may in some context also be serious criminal offences such that they may be subject to criminal prosecution on Norwegian soil. I believe that the national law enforcement office that is established and well running, which is also investigating serious crimes, but not least the efforts made in Kripos and elsewhere, is important in order to be able to stand up to that kind of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e998	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. Yesterday there was a torch for Martine Vik Magnussen, who was brutally killed in England last year. This case is one of many where Northmen come out for crime abroad. A state attorney's office for international matters could have assisted in this matter. At such an office, which I still understand the Minister of Justice wants, will the Minister of Justice bring up the Martine case with the Minister of Foreign Affairs so that Norway can exert diplomatic pressure on Yemen, so that the suspect is handed over? I know that the Minister of Justice also cares about justice and justice. Will the Minister of Justice therefore also check why Norway has not contacted the Consulate General in Yemen in this matter and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to proceed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1005	Now the questioner is actually moving into another area. The main question is therefore Norwegian citizens who commit criminal offences abroad. As far as the matter is concerned, as I understand it, it concerns a foreign citizen who has hit a Norwegian family in the most brutal way. There we are facing some of the dilemmas of international criminal law, which is that Norway cannot rely on powers in foreign criminal matters, and we cannot instruct other countries' criminal justice systems against what we would like. But there is no doubt that there is dialogue in the Government, including between me and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, about the matter in question. I must refer to the answers given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the influence that has been done in the case in question, and we must all hope that this will bear fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1014	If the foreign minister had read the question, he would have seen that it was about issues where the North is involved in crime abroad. The 2006 debate, which emerged from the Minister of Justice in the evening, was about two cases in which people had died in Pakistan, and about having a state attorney's office to deal with just the issues where the North comes out of crime – either committing crime or being committed against. These cases are the Small Smoke case, the taxi fraudster who has gone and hid in Pakistan, the Bolivia case, the Congo case and a number of other cases in Pakistan. I would then prefer to ask the question of whether the Minister of Justice thinks it is acceptable that people partially abstain from criminal prosecution by hiding abroad. And what does the Minister of Justice think about the Norwegian authorities assisting differently in matters relating to the Nordics abroad? The Congo case, the Martine case and matters in Pakistan are examples of that. Will the Minister of Justice take interdisciplinary steps to get work done on common guidelines in foreign affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1024	Let there be no doubt that the Minister of Justice – who is standing here – seems to be totally unacceptable that people are abstaining from criminal acts, no matter where in the world you are doing it. But that doesn't mean that we have the power and authority to use coercive substances, as we use in Norwegian soil when we investigate matters. It's one of the dilemmas in -- I was saying -- the global age. One of the major challenges in this area is to seek agreement with other countries and international organisations, so that we can pursue criminal prosecution in an international community. But it does not determine Norway alone. That is why I believe it is important that we are present in the bodies we can be in Europe, but also in a global context. This doesn't mean that our institutions, whether it's Kripos or the special state attorney's office, or, for that matter, the state attorney's office, don't care about this kind of criminal activity. I think the effort needs to be put into the established institutions we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1032	«The Government has in St.meld. No 44 for 2008–2009 The Education Line fully documented a rapidly increasing need for higher education places. This is underlined by growing youth unemployment as an alternative to education, increased demands for skills and, in addition, a reality that more often gives rise to unemployment. The Council of State has stated that the Department and political leadership are well prepared for growth. What overall plan does the Council of State have in order to increase the number of places of study and to ensure young people’s education rather than unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1039	The government has just reported in St.meld. No 44 for 2008–2009 The Education Line assessed how higher youth and more students provide good opportunities to fill society’s needs for skills in the coming years, thus also preventing more people from becoming unemployed. I would first like to stress that what we call the ‘educational wave’ represents a unique opportunity. If we succeed in providing good education to more people, we are also better equipped to meet the challenges in the future – whether they be global environmental and climate challenges, the ageing wave or the value of the future. In order to be well prepared for a future increase in the application for higher education, the first prerequisite is to have a good analytical basis in place. The Storting Message Education Line is central to our overall plan to offer higher education to more people. Since the Single European Act was presented, new population projections have been presented by the Statistical Centre. The Ministry of Knowledge has taken these new projections into account and updated our assessments of how the number of people in higher education will develop. They show that if the study bias persists today, changes in demography alone will lead to an increase of about 17 000 students by 2013. If the study bias is assumed to increase by 10 pst. Over the next four years — slightly stronger than average growth in the last 20 years — the number of students could increase by 33 000 by 2013. These up-to-date, potential development pathways were made known through the press at the beginning of this week, and the Government will report the figures to the Stortinge appropriately in the context of the handling of the Storing Message. A strong growth in study data was observed already in the current year. Therefore, in the context of the 2009 revised national budget, the Government proposed a total of 115 million. NOK 3800 for new places of study, in addition to increased investment in vocational education. This joined Stortinget. The government has proposed to continue this effort, further increasing capacity by around 2600 study places in 2010. This means about 6,400 more places of study in 2010 compared to 2008. This represents a stake of 327,8 million. kr in 2010. In addition, it is proposed to continue approximately 100 million. kr for the further development of new teacher training in 2010. This is a clear commitment to higher education. In order to meet increased inflows of study, action needs to be taken in several areas. Part of the growth needs to come in the form of new study places funded by Stortinget, which I have just explained. Of course, in the department's planning work, the need for new construction and other infrastructure will be integrated. Furthermore, existing capacity at the apprenticeships needs to be exploited. There are varying vacancies within many subjects at most of our universities. Therefore, individual apprenticeships must contribute to the best possible use of their capacity. In this respect, I have stated that in the future, students will probably have to be prepared to move on more than before in order to take the study offer they want. Nor is it the case that all increases must take place at universities and higher education institutions. We want to stimulate the growth of education abroad, and that more people apply to post-secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1052	I thank you for the answer, which contains nothing new in relation to what has emerged in the last few days. However, I note that there is still a big gap between what is now in the budgets and if one continues to do so in new places, and the need – even the need that was written down – that exists. So we're going to have a big challenge. The Council of State has said that she will not shut anyone out of the possibility of taking higher education, and does not want universities to be for the elite. She sees it as a societal task to facilitate our higher education institutions to receive more new students without compromising quality. Rector of the University of Oslo has been out this week calling out a warning. He says that the framework conditions must be present, so that one can accept new students without weakening the quality. Does he, in the opinion of the Council of State, have a false picture of reality when he calls this warning?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1061	We're all concerned that there's going to be an increase, just the demographic numbers themselves warrant that. I believe that the government has done well with the increase in the number of places of study that have been set up in the revised version, which we will continue in 2010. In addition, when we think about the new opportunities offered to us both in vocational schools and in continuing education – for this is not just about young people, it is also about providing adults with the necessary skills – I believe that we are well placed to increase the number of new students. But I'm fully aware that it's a demanding challenge we have in front of us. We need to have as good analysis tools as possible, as good statistics and as good predictions as possible, to make the best we can. And then we also know that there is a question of how we use the capacity of our system, and possibly also in relation to studies abroad. For tomorrow's societies will require many different types of competence, and all the new students will not enter our universities alone, but many other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1066	I note that it is still not a general plan that meets the overall need for the next three to four years. An overall group of higher education organisations has called out a warning and said that here are the major challenges that we need to start now. Governments refer to new buildings at universities and colleges. There is little disappearing in the 2010 state budget that triggers new places of study. This needs to be done now, because it takes time to build new places of study. Then the Council of State shows that you can fill up existing schools. That offer is there all the time. Not least, the Council of State refers to studies abroad. In the 2010 state budget, I see no change in the funding of foreign studies. Will the Council of State do something about this, so that one triggers more students abroad, without getting a worse student economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1077	Of course, I fully agree with the representative that the measures we are now taking must be strongly linked to the fact that the quality is not impaired, but rather improved. That's a clear goal for me, too. I believe we have a general plan. The basis for the plan lies in the big message, and I look forward to the Stortinge to both deal with the message and present it for debate, so that we, together with the Stortinge, can add the necessary building blocks to the plan and the planning basis that is there today. In the case of incentives for foreign studies, the Internationalisation Communication, which was recently submitted to the Stortinget, provides a detailed explanation. One of the most important strategies in that Communication is to make teachers themselves responsible – not least here in Norway – so that they have a strategy for internationalisation, in the sense that they can guarantee their students education with a quality that provides a good return, both for the students themselves and for the institution they may come back to and come from. So this responsibility is shared between the institutions and the authorities. And of course, I take my share of responsibility – by inspiring and motivating them for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1089	‘A new building is planned for the Bergen College in Kronstad to replace the five different places where the College operates today. The building will be completed in 2014 and provide space for 4,400 students and 500 employees, but already today the university has almost 50 pst. more employees and students than this. At the same time, the Government announces that the number of students in Norway will increase sharply over the next few years. Does the Council have a plan for how the Bergen College can be secured more space for more students at Kronstad when the new building is completed?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1096	The project ‘Collaboration of the College in Bergen’ gave a start-up grant of 65 million. kr in the 2009 package of measures and in Prop. 49 S for 2009-2010, under the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, a cost framework for the project of 240 million is proposed. kr. The cost framework is based on a gross land frame for the project of 48000 m2, excluding parking. The building is dimensioned for 4,400 students present at the same time and 500 employees present at the same time. Today, the University of Bergen has 5,600 students and 660 employees. It is therefore in the programming that there is room for more students and employees than it is dimensioned for, but that all students and employees are not on campus at all times. Several of the studies require, inter alia: students are out in practice for a long time. Both in the preparation of the space and functional programme and in the architectural competition, the emphasis was placed on fluctuations and any increase in the number of students in the approved space programme. The cooperative effect is also expected to be significant at the University of Kronstad. There is a planned high level of co-use and thus land efficiency, and a choice has been made in the design of the facility providing flexible spaces and common areas, so that they can be adapted to a variable student mass and job profile over time. Nevertheless, we know that there will be more youth coal, which will provide additional needs for increased areas, in addition to the flexibility that is now in the plant. Already in the letter of assignment sent in 2002, the Ministry of Knowledge asked the State Building to take account of any future increase in the student population at the University of Bergen and to add to a significant expansion potential on the site at Kronstad. The entire property, which is owned by Stadsbyggen, is about 70 targets. In addition to the planned 48 000 m2 for the University of Bergen, there is an additional potential for expansion of approx. 30000 m2 in the northern part of the property. The Ministry of Knowledge is in dialogue with State Building to ensure that these areas are reserved and developed for the possible future extension of the Kronstad university facility, if necessary. We prioritise this and now look forward to an upcoming construction start at Kronstad. They've been waiting for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1132	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. There is no doubt that the waiting time for this project has been long. What seems quite obvious – despite thinking that some students are in practice, etc. – is that with a growth in the number of students, as the government itself assumes, there will be a need for larger areas in less than a very long time. So we're talking about a growth in the number of students, as the government sees it, in the years ahead. This building will be completed in 2014, so there are still a few years left with growth before the building is finished, and then. Here I refer to the government's own numbers. The question to the Council of State must then be whether or not it is possible to ensure a regulatory status allowing the planning of a construction step 2, even if it will be a few years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1141	I am very pleased that the representative and I obviously agree with the need to start the construction that is now planned. I'll put a lot of emphasis on that we get, and that we get to follow it up in a good way. As I said in my first answer, there's enough space to make any possible extensions in the future. Of course, the students we're waiting for in time can study in many places other than the University of Bergen, but I share the representative's wish for the University of Bergen to get the most students possible, and we'll facilitate it. I would like to refer to my dialogue with Statsbyggen, a dialogue which, of course, also contains discussions about securing land and planning future construction steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1148	Finally, I would like to stress that I agree that it is very important to ensure the progress of this construction project, that we do not now stop. The point is that it's possible to think about steps 1 and step 2, and literally have two thoughts in your head at the same time. What worries me a little is that I have been informed that State Building in meetings with the Bergen University has signaled that from the previous stage of the process there are some leads on the exposed part of the site – which therefore represents approximately. 30 objectives – and that the leaders aim to sell parts of them for commercial and residential purposes in order to finance the planned higher education building. Is this something that the Council of State can demand? I hope so, on the basis of what she answered instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1153	I refer to the answer I gave, and will take the views of the representative with me in my further dialogue with Staatsbyggen. What's clear about my answer is that here there's an opportunity in the area. Of course, more concrete plans are lacking for this – but as I said, I would like to take these points of view with a view to being as secure as possible in the future that we may have more construction steps ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1161	«It has been several years since the plans were made for a new construction for the School of Art in Bergen. Empty is purchased and regulated, architectural contests are held, but under State Council Djupedal the project was stopped. This has put the School of Art in Bergen in a difficult situation with a number of temporary leases in different premises. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make new progress in the plans for new construction for the School of Art in Bergen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1168	The project for the co-location of the School of Fine Arts in Bergen has been working within a total framework of 17 500 m2 gross for several years. A draft project was presented in December 2005 at a total project cost found too high by the Ministry. The project was processed with a view to a lower cost. In March 2006, there was a revised proposal following a few rounds of possible savings proposals. The Ministry still found costs for high and asked State Building to present a project that had costs more in line with other higher education buildings. In order to give the project a chance, the then State Council, Djupedal, decided to move forward with the chosen concept, on the condition that the project was processed for cost reduction and that external funding was received. The background to the call for external funding was that the cost framework was very high on the basis of the demanding solutions chosen. In February 2009, the Ministry of Knowledge received a status report from the work on obtaining external contributors for the School of Fine Arts construction project. The Board of the School of Fine Arts announced that despite the firm efforts of the institution, it had to be concluded that the task of providing external contributors had not been achieved. The present project is an exciting construction – I have seen the drawings myself. It is exciting in terms of both architectural and urban planning solutions, and it seems to be a very good building for the School of Art in Bergen and Bergen – there is no doubt about it. From the time we received the feedback from the Academy of Fine Arts to today, there have been several contacts with the School of Fine Arts and State Building. In the autumn, the Ministry of Knowledge has taken the initiative to relaunch the process, with a view to processing the existing project, which will enable something to be realised within a sound cost framework. On this basis, the Ministry of Knowledge will continue to work on the project of co-location of the School of Art in Bergen and will send a letter of assignment to Statsbyggen that ensures further progress in the matter. The Ministry of Knowledge will come back to Stortinget as soon as a new and proper preparation of the project has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1186	I say thank you for the answer. It is clear that for the outside world, it may seem a little strange that state buildings – representing the state in this context – are announcing an architectural competition, setting up a jury, holding a winner, and then realizing that the one you have loved has drawn something that is too expensive. There is no doubt that the level of ambition was high when this architectural competition was announced – it should be a signal building – it should not be a square box that can be built as cheap as possible. I am a little uncertain about how the Council of State sees that this project can be further processed. It is no surprise either that it has proved difficult to get sponsors for a state building of 100 million. kroner, which I understand was the assignment given to the management of the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1195	I am fully aware of the history behind this, and I see for myself that it is an exciting building, but of course also a precious building. We have several possible options, but starting all over again, I don't think either of us is worth it. What I'm signaling is that we're in contact with Statsbygg to take one or more necessary rounds to find out if it's possible to realize this, which is a very exciting project and which will mean a lot both for the city and for the Academy of Fine Arts. We have – as the representative knows from previous questions – some other construction projects in Bergen and elsewhere in progress, and we need to give priority to it. But that doesn't prevent me from putting a lot of energy into getting a good process with Statsbyggen, so that we get an overview as soon as possible of what opportunities we have with regard to the Academy of Fine Arts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1200	I hope, of course, that the Council of State in a dialogue can get some progress in this project. Obviously, it will be very difficult for an educational institution, which in this case operates in very many areas, not to know when you can expect to move. This creates, among other things: lease challenges. What happened last summer was that the Academy of Fine Arts had to secure new temporary premises, because the rental agreement went out. It is always the case that you have to know in advance how long you have to conclude an agreement, so that you do not risk being stuck with the beard in the mailbox when the new building is ready. In concrete terms, I would like to ask the Council of State if it is possible to contribute financially, so that the School of Art in Bergen can cover the increased rental costs of the last move last year, of 2.5 million. krones.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1207	We follow up all of our colleges very closely and the challenges they had to face both in terms of rent and other things. I can only promise that we will do the best we can in the dialogue we have with the individual colleges. I can't go into exactly what we're doing about the Academy of Fine Arts in Bergen, but we're obviously concerned that it can operate properly, even if it takes some time before you get a new building. As far as the process is concerned, there is the same situation here as with many other knowledge buildings: it requires budgetary appropriations to set processes in motion. So we're dependent on both being able to prioritize, for example. in relation to the Bergen High School – which is before the Kunsthögskolan on the list – but also other places of construction. My task is to try to get as much of this as possible as quickly as possible. I'll do what I can for it. I can assure the representative of Warloe that I have a good and close dialogue with the Academy of Fine Arts and its management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1228	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-02.ana.ud2607e1243	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
