ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e68	From the representative of Anders B. Werp we have an application for parental leave from 4 January until 14 February – and we congratulate you! On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Elizabeth Skogrand, is invited to meet from 6 January until 12 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e86	The representative of Oskar Jarle Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e89	On behalf of the representatives of Nikolai Astrup, Borghild Tenden, John Thune, Bjørn Lødemel, Siri A. Meling, Henning Skumsvoll, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the undersigned, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on ‘on a comprehensive waste policy and the removal of the final treatment levy for the incineration of waste’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e94	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e108	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply will be given to members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e113	Today, on the last day of the harvest session, we are going to adopt – perhaps not the most exciting document that Stortinget has for treatment, but the more important – namely the new age for 2009. There is no new budgetary document with a new commitment but a ‘technical audit’ for the financial year 2009. The conclusion is good with regard to the ejaculation. The structural oil-corrected deficit in 2009 is now estimated at DKK 124.4 billion – DKK 5.5 billion less than we estimated in the 2010 national budget. 2009 has been a special year. The financial crisis has marked the world, and there has been an extraordinary need to increase expenditure in many countries, including Norway. When the Storting decided on the 2009 budget last autumn, we added up to a use of oil revenues measured by the structural oil-corrected budget deficit of NOK 92 billion. This corresponded to 4 pst. of the estimated capital of the State pension fund — Rest of the world and provides an expansive impetus for the value creation of the mainland economy. It quickly became clear that more responses were needed to the financial crisis. Already at the end of January, the Government presented a package of measures, which was adopted here in Stortinget, which strengthened demand and countered unemployment. We increased the budget by 28.5 billion kroner. The decisions taken in connection with the 2009 RNB also reflected the absence of the financial crisis. We increased the structural oil-corrected deficit by another DKK 9.5 billion, to nearly DKK 130 billion. In total, the use of oil revenues in the 2010 national budget was estimated to increase by 55 billion in 2009 from 2008 to 2009. Following the completion of the national budget, new information has been provided on the fiscal equation for 2008 and on the current tax intake in 2009. Overall, the estimate has been set at around DKK 3 billion compared to the 2010 national budget. In the new aging debate in Stortinget one year ago – it was a special debate, I remember very well – the main theme of government parties and opposition parties was on and to what extent Norwegian authorities were able to deal with the dawning financial crisis the world was facing. It is a pleasure to say that the 2009 conclusion is now ready, and that, after all, Norway has managed very well. We've spent a lot of money on the financial crisis, but less than we spent in the 2010 national budget. The use of oil revenues in 2009 is estimated to be DKK 33 billion higher than the expected real return on the capital of the State pension fund — Foreign at the beginning of the year, the so-called 4 pst. Fortunately, we have seen clear effects of the expansionary fiscal policy, which has been combined with the decline in interest rates and good people in working life and business, and Norway – at the end, at least, of what will be the main features of the financial crisis – can distinguish between Europe’s lowest unemployment rate. I mentioned at the outset that the phasing-out is only a technical revision of the budget for 2009 and not a new budget paper with its own efforts. However, I notice that some of the opposition parties still choose to promote their own bets in the vote. In particular, it concerns the second largest opposition party, the Progress Party, which uses approx. Extra 14 billion. My assessment is that it must be possible to question whether this is serious when such a major instrument and action are not given priority in the ordinary budgetary processes. In the 2010 government budget adopted here in Stortinget, the parties to the government have given priority to both poverty, which some opposition parties call for, health and transport, to mention some examples. These are areas that we're occupied with. However, we are also concerned that action should be measured against each other, and initiatives should be reviewed in a comprehensive manner through the ordinary budgetary processes. I will end by thanking the Financial Committee for good cooperation in the autumn. There has been an interesting and demanding harvest with both election and election. We have also adopted a comprehensive government budget, and many other important issues here in the Stortinget. I am also looking forward to today's debate on the ageing of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e143	Then the next speaker is a representative of the largest opposition party, the representative Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e149	It's in such moments that we'll be extra happy with the president! That I thought was a good landing now before Christmas. There are many ways in which the financial crisis year 2009 is now going to abandon us with this balancing proposition. Even in such a financial crisis year, the state economy is running with a significant profit. There are many other countries in Europe that are not so lucky. In fact, we're basically alone in having such a solid state economy, and we should be happy about that. But it also tells me that we have some opportunities that very many other countries don't have, and that very many can just envy us. We could invest in the world's best infrastructure. We could invest in the world's best health and care sector. We could invest in the world's best school. We could invest in our own business and population by reducing taxes considerably. But that's not what the political majority does. Now, in many ways, the balancing debate is not the arena for rematches. But as a document, it is interesting to see the developments we can now expect in relation to the expenditure and revenue of the State budget. The Progress Party was very clear in its 2009 Alternative State Budget on what we wanted to do differently. They are about to leave in 2009. However, there are a few measures that the Progress Party wants to promote in ageing and that we have presented in the position of the Financial Committee. Firstly, we propose that the toll liability of the country's toll companies be eliminated by the State taking over the debt. There is a strong increase in the number of road projects in Norway financed by the fact that toll companies have borrowed money in the market, and then to implement the development of road projects. In addition to the above, several toll projects have now been designed and ready for launch. The loans are served by paying tolls for the use of the completed road or by the construction of the road. Most of the projects are completed, while others are under construction. In addition, it has also been decided to implement a number of road projects. Common to all of these is that the money has already been used or tied to the project. In view of the imbalance between the total charges paid from the drivers and the use of funds for road use, we see that this is the basis for the cancellation of the debts of the toll companies and exceptional appropriations for the projects already financed by the toll collection. So we're promoting in the new era, in line with what we announced in our alternative state budget, proposals to remove this liability, which we do every year. We are also proposing to reduce the debt of health businesses by NOK 1 billion. There is cause for concern when we look at the burden of debt incurred by regional health businesses. When health enterprises have an accumulated deficit of the magnitude we now see, the economic space of regional health enterprises is very limited. The accumulated deficit causes liquidity to be squeezed. As a result, indebtedness is essential for regional health businesses both to be able to obtain control of debt and at the same time to have satisfactory liquidity. Finally, the Progress Party also proposes an allocation to provide a handout to organisations working to help the poor and disadvantaged. An incredibly good work is being done by many non-governmental organisations, and perhaps especially during the Advent and Christmas season, this important work becomes more visible. It will be possible to create a more pleasant Christmas for very many through an extra grant to this type of organization in order to enable them to arrange Christmas events for those who do not see themselves able to do so, and to provide assistance in other ways. The Progress Party therefore proposes an allocation of 30 million. kr in relation to the budget previously adopted for this purpose and the allocation of funds by 10 million. SEK to the Salvation Army, $5 million. kr respectively to the Fattighuset, Redd Barna, the Marita Foundation and the Church's City Mission. The amount proposed is too small to count. But it would be a very concrete measure to help the poor in Norway, as the majority of the population should be interested in granting it now at the end of the year. For those people who get the help of these organizations, the amount we propose will mean much more than beautiful words and promises. This is one of the last debates we have before we take Christmas holidays. I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. Although we may not cooperate so specifically on the political issues, we still have a good dialogue. I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance, who is new to the game – once again – and who has certainly also shown an attitude to what we are asking and interested in, which promises very well for further cooperation. I think that's very good in the political system, which we're actually very happy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e172	Does the representative, Mr Leirstein, wish to include proposals mentioned in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e175	That in such moments we are very happy with the President! The representative, Leirstein, would like to record all the suggestions in the configuration - thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e182	The representative Ulf Leirstein then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e185	There is no doubt that the debate today is capable of taking up competition with Copenhagen and what is happening outside the world, but the ageing process is nevertheless an important debate. There is a type of accounting review and an update of forecasts. It shall not be a budget rematch, and therefore the Right does not promote new policies or proposals in this position. This is the last debate this year, and we have been through a quite remarkable year, which the two previous speakers have also had to attend. It requires some comments. We went into the year with a financial crisis in full bloom, and we go out with the challenges of the aftermath of the measures. The financial crisis is not facing central parts of Norwegian business. But the extreme uncertainty surrounding the financial institutions at the beginning of the year is greatly reduced. The majority adopted a crisis package that made fiscal policy more expansionary than ever in Norway. Norway has come through the crisis for many reasons. We're not going to start that discussion again. But it's well known that several of us could have thought of doing things differently. However, the ageing process confirms that development is better than fear. Oil money use is falling by SEK 5.5 billion compared to what was calculated when the State budget was presented in the harvest. It's nice. But it's no more than that we're really just being reminded that predictions are not reality. But as I said, we're going out of the year with the aftermath of the financial crisis. That's another way of saying that the crisis is not over. The question now is whether we can avoid a strong two-way economy. There are many reports that more sectors of private business are struggling. Constructions and installations have a record number of lay-offs, and the yard industry is on its way into a dramatic word-drier, to name a few. When the activity of the world economy goes down, the new buildings or ships are not needed. Few toolboxes can change that. Yesterday, the Norwegian Bank raised the interest rate, while Bernanke kept the interest rate unchanged in the United States. He announced at the same time that the interest rate would be at a very low level for a long time, as many other countries do. At present, we see a strange optimism, based on a large amount of oil wealth and incentives directed mainly at the public sector. The Minister of Finance has a demanding balance in mind if we are to avoid pressure from competitive business. ‘But there is not a great deal to be done in terms of cuts in this State budget’, said the Minister of Finance during the presentation of the budget in the autumn. She commented on the Right’s budget with: ‘But the representative Sanner is right. It will be more difficult to get out of challenges in the future. But so far there are no more than signals. We're excited about what actions and grip are coming. The revaluation estimates, as mentioned, that oil money consumption is 5.5 billion dollars lower than estimated when the budget was presented. Both expenditure and revenue are moving in the right direction. That's good news. It reduces the gap in the rule of action and makes the Minister of Finance's job in reducing oil money usage easier. But at the same time, the adopted state budget for next year will appear to be more expansive. The question from the Right about how much this increases the expansion of the adopted budget has not been answered by the Ministry of Finance. Well, there might be a lot of reasons. But in the Right we smiled a little when the reason was ‘that the budget was being dealt with in the Storting.’ We had the finance debate at the end of November, and it would be to hope that the ministry also agreed that the budget framework was adopted. The new age does not provide any reason for the Minister of Finance not to take a Christmas holiday, but the underlying challenges are significant. Optimism and belief in the future are good, but it must have its foundation in an economy that is rooted in competitive activities. We can't evolve isolated from the world. Those challenges we're probably going to discuss many times in the future. But since there is hardly a lot of debate about the document today, I take the opportunity to thank both for good cooperation in the financial committee and to wish everyone a really good Christmas. Then I hope for many fresh debates for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e206	As the chairman of the Committee stated, this is not a new budgetary procedure, and this is more of a technical document, without any rematch. That is why I should be very careful to comment on two proposals which are highly rematched, but which show an interesting political priority. That's the proposal of the Progress Party to give $30 million. kr to help the poor before Christmas, and the proposal to give 12 billion kroner to drivers, who may not be quite so poor in this context. It's good that we've got increased focus on poverty, and I hope that's a focus that can also apply outside Christmastime. When I read the proposal, I think of the poem «Herberget» by Bertolt Brecht. In that poem, Brecht tells of the man standing every night collecting money on the corner of 26th Street and Broadway in New York. He collects money to get the homeless space in the inn. So Brecht says, 'Human, don't put the book where you're reading it! Some people now have room in the hostel. The wind is kept away from them for an entire night. The snow that was supposed to fall on them falls on the street. But this does not change the world. This doesn't improve the relationship between people. This does not shorten the time of the replacement.» It's good to keep the wind away and make sure that the snow falls on the street instead of on homeless people. But we also have to change the age of change. Poverty is a question of distribution which is not addressed by granting 30 million to Christmas, but which can be changed by attacking an unfair distribution — attacking the structures that cause some to fall outside, not least the fact that poverty goes into inheritance as well as wealth, attacking high wage increases for the rich, attacking cuts in pensions or in the number of pensioners, as the Progress Party did in its budget, attack cutbacks in schemes to help people get back to work, as the Progress Party suggested in its budget. It doesn't last for 30 million to Christmas when the richest get even more in tax havens. Fighting for universal schemes instead of charity and need testing are measures that change the world. Let it be a New Year's promise. SV will at least keep the focus on those sitting at the bottom of the table, throughout the year, not just for Christmas. Otherwise, much of the budget debate in the autumn was about taxes used as a tool to promote more climate-friendly behaviour – I am talking about the biodiesel tax. You might say what you want about that fee, but at least it's going to be small in terms of the total sum of car charges and tolls. The party's argument about the environment falls completely flat when the party now proposes to give up NOK 12 billion in debt to toll companies. It becomes even more visible when they argue that the Gardermoban was surrendered a debt of NOK 7 billion. The 7 billion were surrendered to allow the Gardermoban to operate financially safely without imposing excessive costs on the public travellers, which would distort the competitiveness of the train towards the car. The 12 billion proposed by the Progress Party here is a big handshake to improve the competitiveness of the car towards others. The Progress Party loves to draw up that more money is paid in car charges in Norway than is used for road purposes. Firstly, if charges are a tool to control people's behaviour, there are obviously not enough car charges, because emissions from road traffic are increasing most in terms of contributing to CO2 emissions. There is a need to reduce car traffic, not to increase it. But in addition, the Progress Party spreads a myth. It comes in approx. 40 billion kroner a year in car charges. The total social cost of car use is at least as high. It's about road construction, about pollution, about dust and noise and, of course, about accidents. The annual cost of the accidents alone is estimated at NOK 25 billion. The recipe for lowering these costs is quite clear: physical distinctions between opposite traffic, not least reduced speed, which also lowers CO2 emissions and reduces the need to build new roads, because there is actually room for more on the road when the speed is lower. Giving up toll companies' debts financed by the State means subsidising future car use at the expense of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e242	In the new age, there are small changes in appropriations, so I see no need to comment on them. On the other hand, there are major changes in both revenue and expenditure in relation to the adopted State budget for 2009. In contrast to the recent ageing, significant parts of the changes are the conscious changes made by the Storting in 2009 – measures that proved to be absolutely necessary. What is the big challenge now in this debate is to learn from the figures and understand how the inhabitants of Norwegian society live, and how the inhabitants of Norwegian society live in relation to the inhabitants and governments of other countries, i.e. see it in an international context. The situation in Norway is special — yes, it is becoming more and more special. This means that a demanding leadership must be exercised, and a far stronger priority must be given in the future. The chairperson of the Committee has described the sober speech of the figures. We agreed with an aged budget with a structurally oil-corrected deficit of NOK 92 billion. As a result of changes in the package of measures and enlargement and revision, we now have an ageing budget where revenue is better than in what was discussed earlier, so that we come out with a deficit of NOK 124.4 billion. Nevertheless, we are in a situation where the consumption of money is NOK 33 billion higher than the expected real return on capital. The amount in itself is important, but the most important thing is what the money is spent on. There is a significant difference between whether the money is used for investments that can generate future revenues or whether they are simply used to keep the wheels going – read: consumption. Increased investment is needed in order for Norway to have a high level of well-being in increasing international competition. One of the major, demanding challenges is how to raise money for increased investment, while at the same time reducing the growth on the expenditure side of the government budget. Another interesting point that we now experience is that despite the financial crisis, we have a further private consumption growth. This is not so unnatural, as the majority of the working population have received more money for private consumption, both through the fall in interest rates and the growth in wages. Christmas trade this year is expected to increase by 3 pst. I guess there are no parties on the Stortinget that have on their program that it should increase, but that's what's happening. The challenges ahead, in addition to investment, are maritime related to interest rate policy. There is a broad understanding of the normal situation: savings and the cost of borrowing are to be made. But in the special situation we're now in, borrowing is very beneficial. We must take the krone price into account as a crucial element of interest rate policy in the future. It contributes to more borrowing-funded consumption than is good. Wages and salaries are becoming very central in the future. We have been in a situation where pay levels in Norway have been steady in line with wage levels in Germany. It develops so that we get a right pay level than in Germany, much higher than in Sweden, and even higher than in the United Kingdom. It's a big challenge for us. Therefore, the focus on wage-fixing, and not least the effect of wage-fixing on the balancing of income, must become very central. It will be exciting to follow the extent to which public leadership can ensure that it does. Finally, the funding of public money: there has been an increase in funding needs during the 2009 treatment of 12 139 million. kr. It cannot continue, while the fight against poverty must continue. So we, as the SV's representative was involved, have to go into the structures and look at how we can change them, so that we can get a different cost development here, while at the same time improving the lives of the people who need it the most. We must then focus both on prisoners, on young disabled people and on child-restraints in order to improve the system, while at the same time the costs do not run smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e264	If you look at the years 2009–2011 in a little context, you can see what a dramatic change we have had in Norway and, not least, elsewhere in the world. A year ago, we discussed here extra measures to remedy the effects of the financial crisis. The government was initially most concerned about getting interest rates down, and then really no need for extra measures aimed at, for example, export-oriented industry or other measures which could save jobs. So we saw that the interest rate went down quite quickly by itself, and at the end of the day the government also came on the track with notice of crisis measures. And that's what we're actually seeing now the effect of in the aging of the current year's budget. When we look at 2010 – if we are to see this in a context – we still have a very expansive budgetary policy, such as: will lead to an increase in interest rates and a faster rate of interest rate rise here than in many other countries. We know what that will mean: major challenges for the export-oriented industry. A higher interest rate option also allows for a higher and stronger dollar rate, with the challenges it poses. As Torgeir Micaelsen said, the financial crisis has come through, but I think you will see the significant effects of the financial crisis in 2010. The fact that, unlike other countries, we can surf a little through this crisis because of our extraordinary oil and gas revenues, is the underlying picture so that the Norwegian export industry has very big challenges ahead. I don't think we should forget that. So to the more salutative. I listened with interest to both Lundtigen and SV's representatives when it came to the basic social structures and the importance of dealing with them. Who should do anything about it, in case? It's the government that sits with the majority. I think it's a bit striking that it's always – at least from the side of the two smallest government parties – an ever-understanding criticism of its own government in the social field. So you have the power to do something about it. It was very nice to hear from Brecht, in that way you also indirectly criticise the opposition here who spends money on social organisations who know what it means to work with those who sit at the bottom of the table. But that's not just what we're talking about; we're talking about the government -- knowingly and willfully -- laying down institutions to accept drug users who wait for months. It makes this government happen – unfortunately. So we're absolutely interested in discussing structures to get something done with Difference Norway. But then I would really like it to be a will too – and it's a greeting to Per Olaf Lundtigen, as I heard on the radio today – that you actually sit down and do something in the Storting, when there are people coming to tell what effect the budget actually has. So I don't think it's just worth saying that we're willing to discuss structures to get something done with Difference Norway. If at the same time you leave off doing small grips that can improve the situation, it becomes to me a very awkward breeze. At the same time, I look forward confidently, because I perceive that the warning given by Lundtigen means that there will be more will in the future to make concrete changes here in the house. Now we're approaching Christmas, so I'm going to go into a milder mode and thank you for working with both the position – yes, the opposition as well – and the Minister of Finance. I was a little worried when Ulf Leirstein had somehow got the impression that he had given so very positive signals to the Progress Party, but I think it must bottom up that I know about few who can respond negatively in such a positive way as the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e277	I would like to take the opportunity before Christmas peace subsides over us, to send some kind requests to the Minister of Finance. Because there is no doubt that the current finance minister took over a much less finished table than what his predecessors were so lucky to get to. Norwegian economy stands in many ways and tilts right now. Although we are better off than most people – and it's an important perspective to take along – there are some dark clouds over us and over the Norwegian economy as well. Large parts of the competitive industry are struggling, public expenditure has grown — if not uncontrolled, so alarming a lot in the last year — and we have health challenges. We have challenges for the poorest, as we have heard a lot about here today, and we have challenges in transforming all of Norway into a more environmentally friendly direction. There is a great responsibility on the country's finance minister in such a situation. Me and Left are small and perhaps insignificant in the Storting, but we are more than willing to stand up and join in a national effort to solve these challenges. I hope – and that is my biggest challenge to the Minister of Finance – that the Minister of Finance will be a little less sloppy and a little more listening than the other representatives of the Government have been in recent years. Then I hope that soon we can end all reasonable objections to the government's policies and priorities with: we grant more than you did! It is natural that more money is being spent now than under the previous government. The problem is that public expenditure has increased by 32 p.m., while wage and price growth increased by about the same period. 19 pst. This is a development that cannot continue. It has to be given priority, and things have to be made different and smarter, for example. in the case of the necessary measures for the renewal of the public sector, or the establishment of a coordination reform which also takes some action in the area of the municipal structure. Without this being seen in context, the coordination reform will be just as dynamic and effective as the regional reform. Let me also make a brief visit to the Chair of the Finance Committee. In today's business on Tuesday, he expressed a willingness to increase car charges, because people actually do what we all want to do, buy more environmentally friendly cars, which means that the total car charges are less than budgeted. I have great respect for the fact that the chairman of the Financial Committee is concerned with the revenue pages of the budget. But it's a little bit strange and a little bit weird, but not surprising. We've been through the biodiesel business. The desired behavioural change leads to smaller taxes on the state fund. Of course it does just that. In the view of the Left, the whole point of the tax regime is to govern behaviour. In our view, it is worth twisting behaviour in a more environmentally friendly and health-promoting way. This will bring socio-economic benefits that far exceed the loss of income on some charges. It cannot be a goal for us to get the most CO2 tax possible. It is an objective that we should in the long term get in as much as possible, because we have succeeded in our vision of a low-carbon society. It can't be that the fewer people who smoke, the more expensive it will be because we have to get the same into tobacco taxes year after year, or that alcohol will be cheaper if we drink more than budgeted and get more alcohol tax than budgeted. I understand that the Government has locked itself in a 2004 tax policy level, but I have never been told that it should mean that each tax group should be at the 2004 level. I, and Left, have said it many times before: to us, the most important thing is the tax and tax system – not if the level is slightly above or slightly below the 2004 level. That is precisely why we have proposed a fairly large re-prioritisation of over 7 billion kroner in our tax and tax package for 2010, but within a nearly revenue-neutral framework. It is quite possible, but it requires political will. It's a will I hope the Minister of Finance will have in the next few years. It is absolutely necessary that we succeed in achieving a competitive business and succeed in the transition to a more environmentally friendly society in line with the agreement that hopefully will be in place in Copenhagen in a few hours. Finally, let me wish both the President, the Minister of Finance and the other finance committee a Merry Christmas and thank you for good cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e299	It's important for people to write the good words in their account, because there may be times when you need to draw on such an account. That's what I've done. As has been pointed out in the past, the very concept of the recent aging of the state budget is not a particularly annoying expression. The fact that we are currently dealing with the new era for 2009 must not be a shadow because it has actually been one of the most dramatic years in the world economy since the 1920s. It's important to have that perspective with you. If we look a little bit beyond Norway's borders, America now has a debt that is approaching their debt after World War II, that is, about 100 pst. GDP. England is at the same level of debt. There are large deficits in many EU countries. In Spain, for example, youth unemployment is over 40pst. That means that soon every other youth has no job to do. Greece is downgraded to so-called triple B. It shows in many ways that the world around us is far from in order. We're making a budget for 2009 with approximately NOK 275 billion in profit and we have NOK 2 600 billion in book through the State pension fund – abroad. The vacancy is 2.6 pst. Or a little over 3 AKU-registered. It tells us a little bit about controlling and dealing with the economy of a country that has great opportunities. We've got a lot of opportunities. It's important, as many people have said, that we might be humble about the situation we're in when we look around the world. In other words, we are a rich country. This Christmas we're going to celebrate a 40th anniversary that's interesting. 40 years have passed since we were told that drifting oil spills were found in the Ekofisk field – a message that has changed Norway in many ways. It has helped us get to where we are today. But it's not just about oil, it's the workforce and the people who are our most important resource. The efforts of individuals today, as well as past and present generations, have made this possible. Therefore, taking care of and developing labour will be the most important thing we can do to ensure well-being and growth over time. Our welfare gains come when many are at work and when many have the opportunity to get work. It is also important that we ensure that we get the most back on the efforts made by the employed. That's why we need a highly skilled workforce that has good productivity. A theme for the future is that it becomes a little difficult to distinguish between investment and consumption. Education and health expenditure is at the same time an investment for the future. How we manage the expenditure in the State budget determines much of the future for Norway, also in relation to the longer-term investments. We get a lot back in Norway for our efforts. We get it from a high level of income and well-being. This suggests that we have been able over time to make good choices within the framework we have set ourselves for economic policy. Then we've been lucky too. Nature has provided us with great resources. But both hydropower and oil resources get a little poor in a way if you don't use knowledge, skills and human labour to develop the opportunities that it gives us. 2009 has been a challenging year in economic policy. There were many dark clouds when the year began. We are now approaching the end of the year. The layer of cloud has been slightly relieved and looks brighter for the Norwegian economy. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind the measures that have been in place, both on the interest side and in the budget in 2009. They have been powerful and necessary to prevent us from having a ‘tebar strike’ in the economy. It's important that we take this into account in what we're now going to do in the Norwegian economy. It is also important to take into account that it is in good times, and when times turn around, to create a new force for action – that is a good guideline for policy. I will also be allowed to return the good wishes for a good Christmas and a good new year. I look forward to working with the Stortinget and the Financial Committee for next year. It could be very interesting. It is an important quality in the Norwegian political system that we can have debates like this and at the same time wish each other a good Christmas and a good new year. It is a quality stamp on the Norwegian political system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e321	Now I hope we don't get any ‘tebar set-up’ – I think it was an interesting dialect expression. I want to invite the Council of State to look a little bit ahead. The Minister of Finance has announced on a number of occasions that the 2011 budget must include a number of expenditure cuts. To VG today, the Minister of Finance says that he has started the Workers' Party's fraction on Stortinget to cut 4 pst. That's 36 billion kroner. I assume that once the finance minister has given such a marshall to the big group here on the house, he himself has some thoughts about where these cuts might come. Could the Minister of Finance clarify what he has in mind about where this is going to happen? In political quarters today, the Council of State said that it was not going to happen on the sick pay system. Are there other regulated spending areas that he thinks can be cut? Or what are the areas where the Council of State really sees it possible to cut the 2011 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e328	In fact, the Minister of Finance is in the lucky situation that this is not an order given by the Minister of Finance. They've invented this on their own. That, I think, is a very good measure. That means that one wants to go into a real discussion and look at what opportunities we have, not just to get expenditure down, but also what we should do out of new priorities. In other words, this is an exercise in finding room for action in economic policy. As far as the sickness pay scheme is concerned, it is interesting to note that during the budgetary procedure no one proposed to cut the benefits of the sickness pay scheme. On the other hand, I think it is an important point that we must continue to work on, namely to place greater responsibility on the individual workplace, on employers and employees, in order to obtain sick leave. There are, fortunately, many good examples in municipalities and businesses of such local responsibility for the work against the high level of sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e335	It's going to be exciting to see how much they think of themselves. In the budgetary procedure, there is not much they have found on themselves at least. But I agree with the Minister of Finance that the world has to be de-medicated for the sake of the debt situation in most places. Norway also needs to intervene, but this is for entirely different reasons. The new age is in many ways a periodical follow-up to the forecasts given by economic developments. I could imagine challenging the Council of State to make a prediction of his own ability to succeed, based on what a former representative had to say, that the Central Party and SV have adopted a style in which they attack both themselves and their government partner for many of the steps that are now likely to have to be taken. What prediction does the Council of State give itself in order to succeed in the job of tightening up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e348	It's kind of made up the impression that the 2010 budget is something that went down from the sky and into the 17th floor of the government building, and then the Stortinget was handed over. It is not a budget that has come into existence in the completely empty space. There have been processes and discussions before the budget was presented. That's essentially the process we've been starting. I'm assuming that everyone should participate in it, that is, all those who support the Government and are government parties. I also expect that there might be some good recordings during the March even from the opposition, which it would be worth considering and taking with it. Making a prediction of success is difficult in advance, but I can discuss it in a year or four, and then we'll see if the job was done in a good way then. Then we have the fasit, and it might be a little bit more interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e355	I want to follow up on what the Council of State said in his statement that he invites Stortingen to a closer cooperation in 2010, and hear a little about what he really thinks about. We now have a budget for 2010. I guess in the financial position, it's $40 million. it is moved, and then there have been some minor changes within the committees. Does what the Council of State says indicates that he thinks there has been too tight a framework for the majority parties to be able to do in reality in the Grand Duchy, and that it has gone beyond, not just the spirit of cooperation between the three parties here in the Chamber, but that it is an expression that the democratic link to come after the government has submitted a budget can also work better than has been the case this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e362	I could add a little bit to my previous answer. I believe some of the main points here are what you get before the state budget is finished, i.e. the processes that you have to have in both the government parties and so far in conversations and in consultation with others in the Stortinget. Only to give a small lead on it: from 1 January 2011, the pension reform will enter into force. This is an example of the fact that a large majority in the Grand Duchy, when it comes to taking heavy roofs that point far ahead, has both the will and the ability to arrive at good compromises. We have had some discussions about the climate agreement earlier this autumn. That's another example. I mentioned the Ekofisk and the 40th anniversary of Norwegian oil. Oil policy is also an example of the fact that through these 40 years of cooperation, one with an alternating majority in the United Kingdom has actually managed to do so in a way that many other countries envy us. So there are opportunities, but at the same time we also have a slightly different political basis for the work we're going to go into.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e369	Rebalancing the 2009 State budget shows that the allocations for CO2 management in Mongstad and Kårstø will be reduced by DKK 1.44 billion. It's not the first time you budget offensively, and then come back in revised and aged with something else. DKr 1.44 billion is a lot of money – about half of the total amount of CO2 management allocated through the ordinary budgetary procedure and the crisis package. Can the Minister of Finance respond when he was first informed that much of the appropriations will not be used? Is there realism in what is budgeted for 2010 – i.e. SEK 3.5 billion – when you think about the progress of CO2 management in Mongstad and Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e386	This is a big and complicated project, and we are now in a pre-project period. Both the 2009 appropriations, and now the 2010 appropriations, are based on the best estimates we have when the budget is adopted, but this is a project that is so complicated that, of course, during March, lower costs can be incurred, and one can actually imagine the exact opposite. But I can say that in the 2010 budget, we are building on the best estimates we have, in view of what will ensure the progress of this important project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e391	Since we have the council here, I thought that I should use the opportunity to talk a little bit about tax relief. After all, it is parties to the Storting that each year want lower taxes on resources and lower revenues, and talk about the dynamic effects it would have on the supply of labour, and with possible signals of making a fairer wage settlement. The former Minister of Finance said no categorically. I wonder if the finance minister we now have is more positive about tax relief at lower and medium incomes, such as. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative state budget? Or: Does this Minister of Finance also think that Bondevik's 2004 level of taxes and taxes is almost nirvana for the tax and tax side, and that it is where you have to be forever and forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e398	After all, this government is based on its tax policy on the so-called tax promise, which means that one should have some unchanged tax levels. However, within an unchanged level of taxation, it is possible to move taxes, such as: have been committed in the 2010 budget, which has now been adopted. A significant change has been made, for example: in taxes on wealth, which means that people with low and medium incomes have actually been greatly relieved and have been completely exempted from the taxes on wealth. We have only started so far in the 2011 budget, but within a total level of plus-minus zero, it is fully possible to make changes to the tax system that can achieve different purposes – ranging from environmental issues to other things. But that's what we're going to get back to in the new year. Then probably this is my last word today!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e407	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1428]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e425	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e434	The Municipal and Management Committee, through its joint comments, has expressed a strong understanding of the importance of the activities of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Subject of Data Protection, as expressed in the 2008 Annual Communications. There are important aspects of personal integrity and the individual's experience of freedom to be protected by law. Supervision should both increase knowledge in society and help to ensure that the rules that are designed to protect individuals are also observed daily. Data protection continues to remind us that an ever-enlarged availability of information on individuals and groups of users poses new and unforeseen issues. The amount of information, storage capacity and search opportunities put privacy under increasing pressure. This applies either to the disclosure of personal data on a voluntary basis as part of an agreement or to the provision of personal data on a request with a legal basis. The sum of information may be overwhelming if it is not deleted and if the data and records are linked. The few believe that there is a conspiratory group in a bunker in Arizona, planning world domination by 2050, and as part of this, they're going to get information about us all. But what you see, on the other hand, is that the many senseful considerations behind the individual registration are small, but together, many steps in the wrong direction. Of course, the registration of personal data is very practical for administrative and business purposes, but at the same time we must recognise that the sum of registrations can ultimately weaken privacy and thus the individual experience of freedom for very many people. Technological development may not be stopped, but it can be brought under – what to say – a better civilisational control. The first line of defence is to moderate the desire of the sector interests to register, the second to raise awareness of the public, and the third to improve the security of information about the information that needs to be stored for the benefit of society. It is a political responsibility to follow-up when the Data Protection Authority alerts about a lack of alert and notification, weak internal control of those handling personal data and poor follow-up of deletes. It is also imperative to make it easier for the future to help people who have received offensive information about their own persons posted on the Internet so that they can easily erase such information. In the context of greater compliance with the provisions, it is also assumed that responsibility is clearly defined and not powdered. The data supervision has pointed to the tendency to store data beyond what is necessary for that purpose. Many grounds behind registration can be achieved without the information being traceable to individual individuals. It must be reinforced that information can only be stored in identifiable form if necessary for the purpose and those using the registration are required to choose solutions that may involve anonymisation. Special attention must also be given to groups who do not immediately understand the consequences of exposure on the Internet. Therefore, much of its attention has been focused on children and young people, the Internet and school in 2008. Children and young people are particularly vulnerable to Internet abuse, and they are at risk of harming others. Training and awareness raising are essential for developing good attitudes in later generations. We also see that an established legislation needs to be harmonised in order not to get in the way of more effective data protection. In this respect, I would like to draw up the Public Health Act which does not currently authorise exemptions from the disclosure of «documents» for internal use, for example. at a school. Pursuant to the Public Relations Act, any person without a documented, factual interest may require the delivery of class records from the school. To the extent that these summaries also contain more than names, e.g.: addresses, date of birth, person number and, where appropriate, image, shall be supplied to the person who so requires. This is set out in an opinion from the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department, which was asked to assess the disclosure law against the Data Protection Act. As legislator, the size would have to follow the need for legal protection in line with technological developments. Both the majority and minorities of the Committee have attached expectations to the follow-up by the Government to the specific proposals of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e455	There is broad agreement on the importance of the work of the Data Protection Authority. The rapporteur has summed up the matter very well, and the Labour Party can join in about everything that was said. The annual reports for 2008 show the scope of the work of the Data Protection Supervisor and the Subject. In several areas of society — such as health and justice — new technologies offer new opportunities, while at the same time testing privacy. Privacy is about protecting information about each one of us. It's not about doing anything illegal or having something to hide, but about the right to be at peace and decide for yourself. The purpose of recording data may be good, but the sum of the personal data recorded may, in the end, have a level that weakens privacy, and thus the individual's experience of freedom. Studies show that the population has great confidence in the processing of personal data. However, the experience of the Data Protection Authority shows that the processing of personal data has not always made this trust worthwhile. In the annual report, the supervision points to several factors that weaken the rights of individuals under the data protection law. It is not that information is deliberately used in the exercise of power, that ‘brother sees you’. It is primarily about the fact that enterprises responsible for personal data do not have a conscious relationship with data protection law. There are a number of outcomes: lack of agreements with subcontractors, poor internal control and increased exchange of data between different databases. In addition, we see a worrying development in the lack of personal data deletion. It has become both simpler and cheaper to store data than to delete it. The Data Protection Authority also highlights that many public and private actors have insufficient control over who is being introduced into databases. There is reason to believe that the darkness figures for snooping, unauthorised access to personal data are large. The government aims to raise awareness of privacy in the population. Earlier this year, the Commission on Privacy came to an end. Already in last year’s state budget, funds were put in place to follow up some of the challenges raised there. Since 2005, the budget of the Data Protection Supervisor has been increased by 40 pst. In the next year’s budget, too, the framework for supervisory activities is being increased. The left is proposing today to divide the Data Protection Agency into five regional units, one in each part of the country. It is a remarkable proposal from a party that wants to keep the privacy tab high. A regionalisation would split up a small and vulnerable professional environment, with the risk of pulverisation of competences it represents. And it's technology, not geography or organization, that challenges privacy today. The Data Protection Authority has great confidence in the Norwegian community and is actively involved in the public debate. This trust must be managed wisely. When data protection has to be balanced against other important considerations and is under pressure, it is essential that data protection is perceived as an independent and competent body. Unfortunately, in the last year, we have seen some examples of representatives of the Data Protection Agency acting in a way in public space that does not always help to strengthen confidence in the independence and professional starting point of supervision. Despite the major challenges of privacy, comparisons between Norway and totalitarian regimes such as the GDR are suitable for spreading unnecessary fears among the population and undermining the important messages of the Data Protection Authority. In the Workers' Party, we are particularly pleased with the active role of supervision in relation to children and young people who feel that personal information is being misused on the Internet. Technological developments do not reduce the need for data protection, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e481	Now, a lot has been said in this debate, and there is broad consensus in many areas when it comes to annual reports from the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Agency. There are some things that we're not as sure about. It goes on the Data Storage Directive, it goes on publicising tax lists, etc., but I don't really see any reason to drag that debate to its full width. There would probably have been a lot of time, and this is also something that has been debated in this Chamber before. First of all, I want to promote the minority proposal from the Progress Party in this setting. I would also like to make a few comments on the proposal from the Left that is being made here. The left's proposal goes, among other things. to ask the Government to follow up the recommendations of the Privacy Commission by establishing five regional data supervisory authorities. The Progress Party has said, and believes, that the work of the Privacy Commission should be the subject of a wide-ranging debate and a wide-ranging review in the landfill, and we still believe that. Then one should have discussed all sides of this, even if one needs to strengthen the Data Protection Authority. At the moment, as the Left proposal is now in place, the Progress Party wants to vote against it, but we will of course consider this in the future when it comes to the recommendations of the Privacy Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e488	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e491	The Socialist Left Party will also join the post that the rapporteur had in this case, and agrees with what was said there. Technology gives us new opportunities for monitoring and connecting personal data, and therefore we need strong data supervision. The strengthening that has been done in the 2010 budget means that we have better privacy opportunities in Norway in the coming year. But there are several cameras that film us in our daily tasks. It's electronic bombings that record where we drive, and electronic ticketing systems in public transport that know where and when we travel. It's also teleservice providers who know when and who we're calling, and who we're sending e-mails to and, not least, where we're going when we're doing it. So the possibilities for those who want to gather information and form profiles are many and increasing. What if this information comes in addition to all the other information that is stored about us every day? This is not about – and it is the only disagreement I have heard here, talking about an experience of freedom – about having ‘an experience of freedom’, but about actually having the freedom not to be subjected to unlawful snooping or linking information. It's not about any major conspiracy theory; I agree with the representative Tetzschner on that. But it's about that there may be unfortunate connections that can seem very negative, and not least that you should actually have the right to let go of snooping in your privacy. The Government therefore supports the Data Protection Authority in putting in place measures to improve erasure procedures and to limit the number of persons to have access to such information. This is Stortinget and SV agree. This is an important prevention strategy, but in addition to this, there will be a vortex of records and privacy challenges that we face in the future, so we need to look at the whole. Then it is not just every single registration that needs to be seen in isolation, but the context. In the future, when we are going to discuss both the follow-up to the Data Protection Commission and the Data Protection Directive, we need to discuss this in a broad context related to what kind of society it is that we want. So finally, I'm going to say a little bit about the measures that have been taken in relation to children and young people. That, I think, is extremely important, because the next generation uses computer tools in a much more everyday and active way than our generation, and therefore they are more easily exposed to both unfortunate snooping and more unpleasant things, but they can also expose others to it. That's why I'm very happy with the work that's been started, and will especially say a little about the campaign you decide.no. It's very important for it to become aware already while you're a child of what you're doing using data tools, because it can actually be something that haunts you all your life. On this website, they have something called ‘Someone can steal your reputation!’ and it’s that information that stays on the Internet can stay there for life. The title ‘Cult stunt there and then’ can also be found on the website. It turns out that the cool stunt has serious consequences for someone else, consequences you wouldn't have thought of. This information may also be in the system, not only for years, but for a very long time. A funny side of the Internet is that everyone gets Googled. Then something might come up about us, but there's a lot of things coming up that might be about someone just called the same thing. I have experienced many times getting enquiries about things that do not concern me at all, but there has been some sort of rumor that it was me, because we had the same name. This information can be found in the search engines, and this is completely open. However, it is at least important that there is a high level of awareness about it and that measures be taken to ensure that children’s need for protection is properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e508	The Municipal Committee has examined the Annual Communications of the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Agency for 2008. There is a broad consensus in the Committee's comments. Privacy is about protecting the personal individual. We live in a time when this is becoming increasingly challenging. It is important that we address the challenges such as: an increasingly electronic everyday life brings with it. People need to be informed about their rights. There's a limit to how close we can get to other people without our prior consent. As a society, we will constantly face the challenge of balancing the right line between protection against privacy and freedom of expression. In this way, the Data Protection Authority is making a necessary and important effort to protect individuals from the violation of privacy interests through the processing of personal data. Privacy affects, inter alia: in the case of television surveillance, recording, use and security of personal data, transparency and disclosure of information from, for example: tax offices or permanent residents. Different privacy rules are laid down in a number of laws, regulations and administrative provisions. However, with regard to the Data Storage Directive, which is not up to debate today, it illustrates the dilemma between privacy considerations and the need for effective tools against crime. At the same time, the emergence of the information society requires that we have a clear and fundamental view of the framework to be applied to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy and freedom from state surveillance. The protection of human dignity can be precisely to establish that society is not to monitor citizens for no reason, and that this principle will be the foundation of our society. In individual cases, good reasons may be given, inter alia: related to the fight against crime. One has to ask, however, whether the sum of these good intentions can help to bring totality closer to totalitarianism. Some are concerned that Norway could become a haven for criminals if this Directive is not implemented, but of course it is free to introduce national rules. The Commission’s recommendation on a thorough investigation of needs and consequences is interesting in this way. Based on the information we now have available, the Christian People's Party has expressed fundamental opposition to the directive, as well as its willingness to use the right of reservation if necessary, but we will return to this in a later debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e525	I just need to fix something in the beginning. First of all, all the technology around us can be a great pleasure to us. It can be used in an incredibly positive way to make our lives better and richer, but also to make better use of the resources of a society. Art is just using technology in the right way, and that's what's the challenge in terms of our privacy situation. The other thing that I think it's important to establish is that we'll never become a society without crime. To think that just we monitor, just we register, just we collect enough, we'll be rid of all kinds of crime, is an illusion that it's important that we never try to reach out to. Since the French Revolution, since the lifting of the living property, since the battle for fundamental human rights, we have developed a set of rights, a set of formations and a set of ways to treat people in public space and private space, and the challenge in relation to the entire digital world and technology is how we are going to be able to transfer these civil rights principles to the digital everyday life. It is all about everything from a culture of debate to actually respecting people's privacy. I have to say that I'm a little startled when the Workers' Party spends time taking so much distance from the totalitarian that actually lies in a lot of these monitoring structures. That you can't see how scary, how close and how totalitarian it can be, I think I'm going to be a scary perspective on this debate. These are surveillance regimes that any dictator would really dream of if we could have set it up completely free. And if we don't have basic spinal cord reflexes on this, I think we can start breaking fundamental human rights in relation to the digital world. I think it's amazing that you can sit and see that a neighbouring country that is friendly in itself, like Sweden, can introduce a monitoring of Norwegian communications that we would never have accepted in an analogue world. The fact that the Swedish authorities would have a person at each mailbox to open the letters before we got them, I cannot quite imagine that we had accepted. But we would like to accept that the Swedish authorities can monitor the content as long as it is electronic. I think it'll be a challenge in the future to transfer the analog civil rights to a digital world. Then you actually have to use the same principles, and then you also have to look out for the totalitarian when it actually looks like it. The left has promoted a proposal that I would like to raise. It is a proposal taken from the Privacy Commission's report, and I understand that the Workers' Party's representatives have not taken the time to read neither what is in the report, where this is proposed, nor our proposal. It's not about splitting up the Data Protection Agency, but it's about building up competences through regional district offices. We know that the debate that is now needed in the future to increase privacy needs to be taken into account in relation to the challenges that exist in each region. Today we are not given the opportunity to have the broad debate that we really wanted. So to something I have to say today that I see as positive in the privacy debate. I think I have had the floor in this debate for the last eight years, and very often the Left and perhaps the President-in-Office have spoken alone, but this year all the parties have signed up. This means that it is becoming an awakening to the importance of privacy. But we in the Left are seriously concerned that it will take far too long to have a case implemented in relation to the Privacy Council, and we should have had a much wider discussion of privacy in this room than the one we get at an annual report once a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e540	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e543	Privacy is a non-profit interest that we have to turn around in a democratic society. As individuals, we want to have control over what information others have about us, whether it's private or public. Information about us should be treated with discretion, and they should be correct. It's about privacy. At the same time, society as a whole is interested in keeping monitoring and control at the lowest possible level. Nevertheless, privacy often needs to be balanced against other interests that we have as a society and as individuals. We see that in the health care system, where on the one hand we want the doctor to have the information that is needed for us to get good treatment. On the other hand, information about our health is something most of us want to protect. Therefore, privacy considerations are not about being for or against privacy, but about how systematically we are able to weigh these considerations in when we as decision-makers are going to solve societal problems. Privacy considerations must enter into decision-making early. Often we can design a measure that has less negative consequences for privacy, but so that we still achieve what we want. Therefore, whether it is more efficient transport, better fight against crime or good health services that are being discussed, considerations must be taken early into account in decision-making. That is where we stand in the discussion on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. A key challenge, therefore, is how this can be done with as little unnecessary interference as possible in the privacy of people. In addition, it's about how we, as a society, make it possible for individuals to make a call about their own privacy. We use electronic services, such as fully automatic toll stations and electronic travel cards in public transport. An increasing number of payments are made using electronic means of payment. In sum, this means that we're going to leave track of ourselves, without thinking about it. Most of us won't give up such services, even if we leave track. Nevertheless, the right to travel outdoors without anyone ever knowing where one is, is a fundamental right. Some people don't care that they're registered, but as a society, we should suspend the right to anonymous traffic as an alternative. Technology challenges privacy. It will be easier to collect information about us, to store them, to systematize them, and to use them. But new technology is a sword that we can also turn to the best of privacy. The logging of patient records is not possible with paper-based records. Technology makes pseudonymisation of personal data practical. It is an important step forward for privacy. The development of an eID is a good management policy measure. It contributes to the efficiency of the process and also to the strengthening of privacy. I am very pleased with the position of the Municipal and Administrative Committee. It shows that there is broad political consensus on privacy. It also shows that most of the parties see the difficult balances that we're facing. In the Department, we are currently summarizing the 61 consultation replies to the Commission's report. The Ministry has already followed up some of the proposals, which are also mentioned in this Chamber. I look forward to coming to Stortinget with several suggestions for enhanced privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e566	I took the floor because I thought I heard the Council of State refer to the fact that a prudent introduction of the Data Storage Directive could be achieved – I would ask to be corrected if I had misunderstood. But does that mean that the State Council, on behalf of the Government, is stating that it has concluded in this case, that it will promote the implementation of the Data Storage Directive? Is it not to advance the entire consultation round and the consultation process that we have agreed to add up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e571	As I said in my post, in the discussions we have about the Data Storage Directive, it is important with a very central assessment of how we can have minimal unnecessary interference with the privacy of people. The government has said that we should have thorough investigations on the matter. That's what we're about to do. What I'm saying in my post is that we, from my department, are concerned with privacy in the investigations that are being carried out. The Government shall return to the Storting with the Data Storage Directive. There has to be a discussion in this room. We will in no way conclude until necessary and thorough consultations have been carried out. However, it is also important for the Government to make thorough assessments before deciding, if necessary, to provide something for the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e578	Today, the Left presents a proposal to establish five regional data supervisory authorities. I don't think it's necessarily the way to go to strengthen the Data Protection Agency. But I could imagine asking the Council of State if she looks at other measures that could help to strengthen the Data Protection Authority and the Data Protection Authority's ability to do the task it's set to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e583	I think it is important that we manage to have an active public debate on privacy. I imagine it's possible to make events where it focuses on privacy, where we can discuss it. It is important that privacy is discussed in this room, but I also think it is important that privacy is discussed in the more open spaces, that it becomes central in the follow-up we are going to have from the Commission's report that we are able to have debates in spaces other than the ministry offices and the storeroom. There I imagine that the department can play a role and contribute to that kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e590	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1433]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e610	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e628	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e646	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e664	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e682	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e700	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e708	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e716	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e840	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e908	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to identify which private health institutions have not been fully covered by the actual pension costs in 2009 through the framework grants to regional health enterprises and to propose compensation for this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2608	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2633	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the event of any implementation of the Data Storage Directive [[2006/24/EC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2665	There is a vote on the proposal by the Grandparent Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, made at the meeting of the Grandparent on 3 December 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to present to the Grand Government the necessary legislative changes in order to allow the detention of non-residents who have been found to be a threat to the national security or fundamental interests of the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2684	There is a vote on the proposal by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party, tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 8 December 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislation integrating the municipal tasks assigned to Nav in a law on state responsibility under the management responsibility of Nav.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2703	There is a vote on the proposal made by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party at the Stortinget meeting on 8 December 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Grand Duchy assessing the situation of single dependants compared to pastors in the light of developments since the introduction of the transitional aid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2722	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Håbreek, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, made at the Stortinget meeting on 10 December 2009: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that part of the revenue from the remuneration for the allocation of increased production capacity in the breeding industry falls to the counties concerned and that it is assessed whether part of the revenue should also be assigned to the host municipalities concerned.’;» The left has announced here that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2743	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Håbreek, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, made at the Stortinget meeting on 10 December 2009: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the current year’s maximum authorised biomass for salmon, trout and rainbow trout farming until the challenges related to salmonids have been brought under control.’ [[MBT]] The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2764	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Håbreek, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, made at the Stortinget meeting on 10 December 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to take urgent action to kill salmon infected with salmonnus where there is a professional basis to do so in order to stop the spread of salmonnus.’ Here too, the Left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-17.ana.ud479e2808	Then the president on behalf of the Presidency will be allowed, at the last meeting before Christmas, to thank the Stortinget for a very good job harvest, a very good cooperation. We want all the representatives, all the employees of the house and everyone else who has their work in the house, a peaceful and Merry Christmas, and we look forward to having a good new year together. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
