ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e48	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e57	I am very pleased to present the proposal for a new mineral law for treatment in Odelstinget today. For the mining and mineral industry, this is a very long-term law. In fact, new mineral laws have been in demand since the last half of the 1980s. I also thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the examination of the legislative proposal. In my opinion, the Committee has done a clean job, and we have invited you to an open hearing and a separate meeting with the Co-decision Council. We have also organised a seminar with participation from industry, administration, NGU and academia, which also provided very useful information. The bill represents a significant simplification by replacing the Mining Act, the Industrial Concession Act, the Limestone Act, the Quartet Act and the Mineral Absence Act with one new law. That's good cleanup! At the same time, adaptations are made to other legislation, with changes to the Planning and Building Act and the Concession Act, so that these laws are adapted to the new Mineral Law. The law has a modern language theme. Bergvesenet has become the Directorate of Mineral Management. Non-mutable minerals have become landowner minerals. Mutagens have become state minerals. The distinction between landowners' and state minerals is defined by the tare weight of the mineral. However, changes are not made to the current law as regards landowners and state minerals. However, the law introduces operational concession requirements also for landowner minerals. An obvious prerequisite for obtaining an operational approval is that drivers have the necessary rights to the presence. Perhaps the most important thing about the new law is to stimulate increased activity and economic development. At the same time, the law is intended to ensure that society needs control of the operation in an environmentally sound manner and that environmental considerations are taken into account. It is a challenge that it has not been possible to reach agreement with the Sameting on the proposal for a new law. In this respect, I refer to the Committee's comments which stress that this is primarily an industry law, and which I would like to stress for myself that industry has been waiting for 20 years. It's urgent, so it has to be presented now. Secondly, there is a point that several provisions of the law ensure that Sami bodies participate in the treatment of mineral matters. This includes the right to be heard and to complain to the King in the Council of State. There is also an extension of the alert period for searches in Finnmark and an extended documentation requirement is imposed on enterprises to illustrate the impact of the mineral activity on Sami culture and Sami industrial activities. All in all, Sami interests are well cared for in this way. All parties in the nutrition committee, except the Progress Party, have indicated in a note that the industry is calling for greater efforts by state institutions to trigger the potential of increased extraction and processing of Norwegian minerals. We also stress the importance of the state agency focusing on the importance that this industry can have for developing new jobs. I would also like to stress the importance of developing a national policy in this area as well. At the start of the oil adventure, we took political action as a nation to ensure sustainable management. The same should be done with regard to shore-based resources. Structured cooperation between the different environments of competence, industry and the country is needed to ensure adequate awareness and knowledge of the possibilities and hence the basis for the increased contribution of the mineral industry to activity and settlement throughout the country. I believe that the new mineral law can be a first, but important step in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e78	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. I know that the progress of some stakeholders has been relatively large, and I think the case rapporteur has done a good job bringing together the Committee's comments. The Mineral Act, as it is now presented by the Committee, is an important tool for making more use of the rich mineral resources in the country. The new law involves a substantial simplification of the law and is intended to increase the interest in looking for propelling mineral deposits. Although the Progress Party largely agrees with the legislative proposal, there are still some points on which we want to change. The Party is committed to safeguarding the interests of landowners, and a State and professional desire for increased mineral extraction must not be at the expense of those rights. We therefore propose to tighten Section 9, so that the landowner is informed of the search activity on his property if this results in significant interference. At the same time, we believe that the warning of exploration activity should be in writing. As the bill now exists, where one can limit the warning to only verbal, it opens up to misinterpretations and misunderstandings, which may result in unnecessary rounds in the judicial system of what has actually been notified. We don't fear that this could bring some great disadvantage to the reader, but we believe that it's the least you can ask when it's actually about activities on someone else's property. At the same time, we would point out that expropriation should only be used exceptionally, and that full economic compensation should be provided in cases where expropriation is used. But what the Progress Party absolutely does not like about the new bill is the discrimination that the law imposes. The Progress Party believes that the Mineral Act should apply equally to the whole country and to all population groups. We do not see the need to grant specific rights or regulations to some population groups or areas that may make mineral extraction difficult to implement. We will therefore be voting against the points of the bill that give special rights to the Samer or the Sameting, to which we have referred in our remarks. This is a follow-up to our position on the treatment of the Finnland Act, where we stressed that citizens in the country should have the same rights and obligations. The warnings we received at the time about conflicts of interest that would be reinforced by the special rights that the majority of Finnland law, at the time, has subsequently proved to be justified. Granting the Sameting new special rights under the Mineral Act will therefore only increase the possibilities for new conflicts and thereby counteract what was the intention of the legislative proposal, namely to increase the interest and extraction of mineral deposits in Norway. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals on which the Advance Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e91	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e94	I would like to start by thanking Mr L. Arne. Have a job successfully done with this setting. The Mineral Act has been called for for a long time from a total mining industry, and now it is finally in place. The right is in favour of the law being passed. The right has a good tradition of supporting actions that improve framework conditions and simplify legislation for business. For mineral industry, the new mineral law is just such an instrument — a law to replace five laws, two of them as old as almost 100 years old. There has long been a strong desire from the operators in the industry to put in place a new law. This will include, inter alia: contribute to increased value creation, eliminate distortions of competition and facilitate exploration, environmental care and, in particular, improved access to both land and occurrences. The work has taken a long time, but has resulted in a law that is widely endorsed, both among the parties on the Stortinget and among the actors in the industry. We surround ourselves with minerals every day, from the pencil we're writing, to the roads we're running on, and the houses we live in, Norway has huge mineral deposits and a long tradition of extracting and processing them. In 2008, mineral raw materials were sold for well over 11 billion kroner. It is especially in coastal areas that we find many of the nearly 700 mineral holdings that provide work for almost 5,000 people. The potential is great. There are now known mineral resources worth over NOK 1000 billion, with varying degrees of extraction potential. For me, it says a lot about how important this industry is, and is going to be in the future, and why it is essential that you have predictable and good framework conditions. So the Mineral Act makes it possible to make better use of the potential and provides greater opportunities for industry to grow. But a new mineral law also comes with new obligations. With better access to land and occurrences, there is a responsibility for good securing and cleaning. In the interests of humans and animals that travel in areas where exploration takes place or where minerals are extracted, it is important that safety is properly maintained. In recent years, the country has taken a significant part of the costs of securing closed mines. The new law provides for long-term implementation of the protection and clean-up obligations and the termination of the activity. This is also important for the landowner. For the right, ownership is central. This includes, inter alia: that landowners have control over the management of their own resources. Therefore, the Right has proposed that Section 10, first paragraph, read: «Warning should be done in writing». We believe that this will also lead to the avoidance of conflicts based on doubt as to whether the alert obligation has been fulfilled. The Sami areas are among the most geologically interesting areas in Norway. I have noticed the broad opening up of new mineral laws. Despite considerable work, the Ministry has not reached full agreement with the Sameting, despite the fact that the Ministry itself claims that the law strengthens the Sami interests. This disagreement will in effect make it difficult for the industry to start exploration and extract any mineral deposits in this area. In practice, the whole thing gets a blocking position, and I think it's disturbing. The mineral industry has been positive in adapting to the Sami interests and in finding best practice solutions for them. I expect the ministry to continue working to find a good solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e111	Mineral Law is a major simplification of the Code. The Christian People's Party is in favour of this. For the Christian People's Party, it is decisive that the new law creates far-sighted and good framework conditions for Norwegian industry, and that it is involved in the modernisation of the legislation. The Christian People’s Party also emphasises that the proposal stimulates increased activity in nutrition. Norway is a country with large mineral resources with a long experience and a high level of competence in mining. The extraction and processing of industrial minerals is an industry in growth. Although the Norwegian mainland has large mineral resources, there is significantly lower lead activity in Norway than in other Nordic countries. The Christian People's Party is busy facilitating new opportunities for industrial activity. Mineral extraction is an important niche, and Norwegian mineral resources represent a major industrial potential in mainland Norway, not least in the districts. During the hearing several positive feedback about the changes proposed by the mineral law were received. At the same time, the Christian People's Party has noticed that the Norwegian Forest League had a point of view where the importance that landowners can control the management of their own resources was underlined. The Norwegian Forest Egg Association also points out that landowners are to be notified in connection with search and that mining industry companies should enter into agreements with landowners before they can initiate investigations and extraction. This supports the Christian People's Party. Otherwise, I would like to show that the Ministry assesses different schemes to ensure the financing of clean-up both during the investigation and the operational phase and at the end of the operation. The Christian People's Party supports Norsk Bergindustrie, which, in its hearing expression, indicates that it is important that this be properly cared for. We see that it may be difficult to provide adequate security during the start-up phase. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is asking the Government to evaluate a combination of bank guarantee and the construction of a fund for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e122	From Frostingslova, we know the topic of ‘law will build the country’ – and regulated, civilised and structured, and from the mountains, we know that it is important that the laws we make should be in accordance with time and time. All this points to the current text. This new mineral law provides an important, better and more sustainable framework for an old, exciting and forward-looking Norwegian industry. The laws release five previous laws, in a way that just reflects the time and time, but this mirror image points forward at the same time, and it is positive and progressive. This thing has taken its time. The Committee's recommendation says that more than 15 years have passed, and it also includes that the Stortinget had a previous proposal for management at the very last moment of the Bondevik I government's management time. Dinest drew the Stoltenberg I government case. At that time, the central government's large groups were skeptical of the bill from their own government. Why is that? Yes, an important point of appeal was that the interests of non-state landowners were voiced. The centre party is both satisfied and satisfied that there is no longer any real basis for such criticism. We've got a law that takes care of their interests, at the same time as expanded search rights open up and add the favor to more findings, greater value creation and more activity, not least in District Norway, where the minerals have marked a geographical tendency to exist. Let me also take advantage of the opportunity to emphasize that such search, operation and not least cleaning must be done in a gentle manner both when it relates to nature and the environment otherwise. It is not least important and right to the future that the Ministry should consider different arrangements to ensure the financing of clean-up operations and operations. Breaks, rest periods and temporary stoppages enter the image here, and the central part is happy that the mineral laws contain clear rules for this. These rules are also pragmatic, take care of both socially defenceable management and allow the industry to adapt to market demands. Finally, I would like to say that mineral exploration is important and important for the country now and in the future. Then we have to add that it is strong and good professional environment, many years of experience and literally deep geological knowledge etc. which has made it easier to find the minerals every now and then. It's important then that one has a law that matches the times we live in, and the things I've outlined here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e139	First, I have to correct a mistake on page 17 of the setting, where the Left has fallen out of a comment on the obligation of activity for action holders both when operating on State minerals and on landowners. The Left supports the majority of the operation ‘to be started within five years of the grant of the operating concession and the operation cannot be suspended for more than one year without authorisation’ and that ‘through the provisions on operational rest, the management of the use of mineral resources in a socially sound manner is ensured in accordance with the principle of sustainable development and value creation, while giving the industry room to adapt to market conditions’. That comment should have been supported by the Left. We didn't do that because of an incurrency. This is an interesting matter, probably especially for me and not least for the rapporteur on the matter. Both of us come from formerly large mining municipalities, so we have in many ways followed that development over time, even though the case rapporteur has probably followed the development of mining in his municipality longer than I have done. In any case, the left believes that it is very important that we have established a new mineral law, and we believe that the government has done a good job in drafting the law, which is a significant simplification of previous legislation. But a few comments to the law as it exists: For the Left, it is important that landowners have control over how the management of their own resources is carried out. Landowners must be notified of exploration, and mining industries must conclude written agreements with landowners before they can initiate significant exploration and extraction. The left, like the other opposition parties, believes that a solution needs to be found quickly to finance the clean-up of exploration and operational phases and the completion of activities and the extraction of minerals. Today, we have many abandoned mining companies where there is still a significant clean-up work to be done. It is waste from mining activities that can be environmentally harmful and currently poses significant environmental threats. We can avoid this for the future. The Left therefore asks the Government to support a solution with a combination of bank guarantee and the establishment of funds for clean-up. Finally, I would like to point out that we, who come from such mining municipalities, have probably also seen that cleaning in some contexts has taken some time, so the need is absolutely present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e150	The representative André N. Skelstad has corrected the settings on page 17, first column, fourth paragraph. That'll be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e153	When Odelstinget is about to deal with the proposal for a new mineral law, it marks a milestone in the process of creating a modern and good law. Work started when the Mineral Law Committee was set up in 1993, and has been in progress for more than 15 years. There has long been a need for a new and modern law to replace five to some very old laws. In addition, the law is an excellent example of the Government’s efforts to simplify rules. With the new mineral law, we modernise the legislation, improve it linguistically, make it simpler, more transparent and easier to access. At the same time, we close holes in the existing legislation and ensure that all parts of the mineral industry are regulated and have a level playing field. Providing good framework conditions for the mineral industry is both good industrial policy and good rural policy. The Mineral Act is an important contribution to the government's goal of investing in districts' own resources, local value creation and jobs in the neighbourhoods. We are concerned that the mineral industry is, and must be, a forward-looking industry. Norwegian mineral nutrition is of exceptional importance for the development of nutrition in District Norway. The government will facilitate the forecasting and good framework conditions for an industry with more than 5000 employees and more than DKK 10 billion in turnover. Under the Mineral Act, we will stimulate increased monitoring of mineral resources in Norway. Let's do that, for example. by extending the right of access. Norway is rich in mineral resources, not just oil. According to estimates made by Norway’s geological survey, we have known mineral resources in Norway at a potential value of more than DKK 1000 billion. I don't think so many people think about it, at least not beyond those who work on these questions. It is important for the Government to promote a mineral law that also takes care of the interests of landowners when seeking and extracting minerals. The ownership control of landowners is therefore continued in the new law. It is an important principle that the landowner has the freedom to conclude agreements with the mineral companies. The government has been concerned that environmental and social interests need to be better safeguarded in the new mineral law than in current legislation. Therefore, operational concession and competence are required to ensure the safe operation of Norway’s mineral resources. We introduce rules on supervision for all actors. In addition, the new law will impose stricter requirements on clean-up, which have been covered by several regulations, as well as a safeguard and financial guarantee to ensure environmental considerations in the event of the bankruptcy of the company. The Ministry will draw up a regulation on a financial guarantee scheme, and we will, in cooperation with the industry, develop schemes that both businesses and society can live with. The regulation will normally be consulted prior to its adoption. The regulation of so-called ‘operational rest’ by the Mineral Act has been the subject of two questions from the Committee. I would therefore like to make a brief comment on this. We are concerned that the new law should stimulate activity on mineral deposits – that is important. At the same time there must be a regulatory balance so that enterprises can, where necessary, take a break in operation. We have therefore created a system in which the company must apply to the Directorate for Mineral Management if the operation is to be stopped for more than one year. The government has been concerned that the new law should safeguard the Sami interests in mineral activities. The government considers it important — contrary to what the Progress Party has stated — to comply with Norway’s international legal obligations and to maintain its indigenous interests in Norway in a good and balanced manner. In this way, this bill is also a follow-up to the ideas that have been discussed, among others. in the Finnland Act. In contrast to the representatives of the Progress Party, who do not want rules that take care of Sami interests, which, in my view, would create major international law problems for us, and also other types of problems, the Government takes the indigenous interests seriously and therefore proposes rules that strengthen Sami interests compared to today. During the legal work we have had several consultation meetings with Sametinget. We have agreed on several points, without reaching agreement on the whole of the law at the end. In the opinion of the Government, it is important that the setting of the Joint Court Committee II be carefully addressed before any final decision is taken on rules outside Finnmark. Providing good framework conditions for the mineral industry is both good industrial policy and good rural policy. When, after many years, we finally got there that Odelstinget will adopt the mineral law, it is with pleasure that I note the broad consensus that the bill has reached in Stortinget. This ensures that we now have a law that can create good and predictable framework conditions for both the mineral industry and society for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e185	I noticed that the Council of State in its speech addressed the issue of the Sametinget and the commitments Norway has in this way – as you know, the Council of State very well from the past. But I also note that the Sametinge believes that this law is contrary to the rules of international law on indigenous peoples and minorities. So the whole thing doesn't agree with the government here, and I could imagine challenging the state council in that particular area. In addition, I would challenge the Council of State that the Sametinge believes that the right to land and water in the Sami areas belongs to the Sami people. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e190	Finally, it is difficult to agree that a right implies that property belongs to the Sami people. The whole intention behind the Finnish law, and also the whole intention contained in this bill, is that those with rights acquired over time should benefit from the rights. It is true that there is only one area where the Progress Party does not accept property rights and rights that people have acquired, and that had to be in Finnmark. If you take a Norway map and see how the properties are distributed in Norway, you will see that private property rights have won through the claims and age of use everywhere else in Norway, but not in Finnmark. The Finnmark property would pay for it, so that the Sami people could also participate in some of the ownership rights. This bill builds up very well under it. Then I also assume that it is not the case that we always agree with the Sameting in relation to the kind of understanding of international law that we have, and I suppose then that the Progress Party does not believe that this proposal is contrary to the ILO Convention. Rather the contrary: we believe it is clear within, according to what is the government's assessment of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e199	I can just repeat the first part of the question since the council didn't answer it. In addition, he will face a new challenge. How does the Council of State define what is going on in Sami areas, where the Sameting is very concerned? I'd like to hear the Council's definition of that, but I'd like to answer the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e204	I'll answer as far as I can, because there are comprehensive questions. As far as the first question is concerned, it is clear that when the Sametinget and some others outside the Government and outside the political parties claim that the bill would conflict with, for example, the law. The ILO Convention does not mean that the Government necessarily agrees. We have put forward a proposal that we believe is absolutely within the framework of the international obligations undertaken by Norway. I believe and will claim that Norway has gone very far in recognising the rights of the Sami people. It is true that both the Finnish Law and the work of the Joint Court Committee II have led to the exclusion of concepts such as ‘Samian areas’, but to the identification of rights related to, inter alia, the use of ‘Samian areas’. use of age. As a matter of fact, Samer and others are given the rights that everyone else has been given in Norway. In this way, I believe that the Finnish Law is a good construction, and I also hope that the Joint Court Committee II and its follow-up will produce the same good result.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e213	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 636]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e232	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers from each group and three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e241	Since the case's rapporteur, Ola Borten Moe, is not a member of the Odelstinget, it is my responsibility to present the statements of the rapporteur. The attitude is rarely elucidating in such a way that a show of the different ideological fundamental views of the parties to the great crowds on one of the most important issues of society, namely ownership policy, ownership of agricultural land. On the part of the government parties, attention has been paid to updating and modernising the entire law relating to the ownership of agriculture, and the main three laws are the law of no part, the law of the land and the law of the concession. The Government Parties continue their fundamental views on the link between ownership and property obligations and a law providing long-term security for those who fulfil the obligations. The Odel Act is particularly important for farmers’ long-term management of agriculture despite changing economic conditions – economic conditions that, over time, put the threat of the future at a very difficult time to ensure the further development of the farm, so that it is delivered in a better condition. There was a major revision of corresponding legislation in 1974, and there are many parallels between the position at the time, and the debate then, and what is happening today. At the time, the opposition with Right, Libertas and Anders Lange expressed its criticism of the obligations associated with the law against a centre-left alliance in Norwegian politics. It is usually the right of ownership to which appeals are made whenever farmers and villagers are to be courted for cooperation with the Right. The tactics are then to talk about defending ownership without saying ownership for whom. It's competition to own land. Those who work on it will own it, and those who have the money to own it will own it. Here you have to make a choice. You don't solve the conflict between farmers and speculators who both want to acquire the same property by saying that as much as possible from both parties own land. You have to choose. You have to build a protection for the benefit of the one you choose. This protection is the social assessment, the concession system and the odel law. I have not seen anywhere the views of the Centre on property rights as well expressed as in the Adler-Falsen Constitutional Draft, where it was in its time hot: "The property right is the right of every citizen to enjoy and rule over his goods, his income, the fruits of his labor and his labor." That ownership is not of the same kind as the ownership of the goods owners anymore in southern Europe; it is more related to the right of workers to boast of the fruits of their work. The right to own the work of others and the fruits of the work of others must not be confused with the right to own their own. We need to go further into the word 'property', into the political realities. It is the family use that is the Norwegian reality. Any progress policy in Norway must be based on sea-lord farmers, family farms. Experience from collective takeover of the property owners under Stalin and the acquisition of the right of access to land by food chains in the United States indicates this to be fully demonstrated. Resistance to progress policy comes not from collectivists in Norway, but from the right, who can imagine the earth turned into a speculator. The setting today shows that the Progress Party is consistent. They want to take away both the law of the land, the law of the land and the law of the concession – everything is very simple. What's interesting in the setting is that the Left Party has approached the Right Party by the fact that a party wants to take away the Odel Act and wants to remove the obligation to live as a national obligation and transfer it to the municipalities. The right is on its traditional point of view if no personal dwelling, no price regulation — and also undermines the living conditions of the no partial law. What is important in this setting is that, on the part of the government parties, it has been added to an embellishment of the division clause of the law of the land, § 12. Government lots are commented on in order to open up to disaggregate parts of an agricultural property to neighbouring uses in exceptional cases, where it is facilitated by arrogance. Delegation applications for the purpose of establishing large non-principal recreational property and concession obligations are not desirable. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a detailed assessment of its practical design. It is necessary to strike a balance between the needs of farmers for stable ownership and use conditions, the consideration of housing and the consideration of the vitality of the community. The point of assessing the embellishment of the ban on sharing in Section 12 of the Soil Act is to facilitate voluntary, a roundabout improvements in the structure of use, so that scarce natural resources – soil, forest and land – provide a better long-term income base for those who live and work on these areas in the countryside. Another important point is the price assessments. It is added up to a larger mark-up on the value of the dwelling, which could facilitate the conditions of the sale of property.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e275	The representative Lundtigen takes as usual full bet on the jump edge and lands with a wreck! In his statement, the representative Lundtigen said that this case well demonstrates the ideological views of the parties on ownership. I fully agree with that. This is one thing where there is a significant distinction between the left-hand parties on the one hand and the Right-hand Party on the other in respect of respect for ownership. It is therefore regrettable that the Central Party has become a permeated socialist party, which through the law is to deprive the peasant of any kind of ownership. How will the representative Lundtigen help to make the Central Party also a party that strengthens the ownership of the peasant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e282	I am pleased that we agree that there is a significant ideological distinction between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other. For the Center Party, it's a long tradition. It is a tradition that has its basis in the old Left around 1910 and the concession laws, further in the law of the Earth Law in 1928, the Earth Law in 1955, the concession law in 1974 and now the amendments in 2009. The centre party has always been on a consistent line, as I describe here. It's nothing new. Agriculture in Norway has developed positively with this attitude, as opposed to those countries that do not have ownership obligations. It is an experiment that the Progress Party stands for, which we have fortunately avoided in Norway – and it is with great pleasure that I can see that it will be so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e289	I think it was tidy by the representative Lundtigen so to the degrees to establish a purely socialist, ideological basis for these property restrictions for Norwegian farmers. What we see in relation to the professional, in relation to the investigation of the impact of price regulation and housing obligations, is that this has about zero impact on the agricultural and district policy objectives. Lundteigen was part of the concept of self-righteous peasants. The statistics show that 40 pst. of the agricultural area in Norway has now become tenure land. We have 180,000 uses and less than 50,000 active farmers. Does not Lundtigen — who is a farmer himself — see that these statistics show that these property regulations have been completely unsuccessful in ensuring a positive development of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e296	It is quite alarming that a representative of the Right, who in other contexts defines himself as conservative, wants to facilitate a property policy with such a radical property reform that property structure and usage structure are the same at a time when the economic foundation disappears for the many – due to the ideology of the Right. What the Centerparte stands for is maritime price regulation based on the value in use of the land, the cost value of the buildings, and that you can add a living value greater than that of today's 500,000, so that you can get a higher price on some properties, which will make it easier for younger people to take over by buying a house somewhere else, and thus putting a fine end to their professional career.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e303	It is only to be noted that the representative Lundtigen now appears to be one of the biggest socialists in the world. In the region reform and in this case, the County Agriculture Boards are now being removed. And County Agriculture Boards have had an important role to play in providing discretionary judgements from elected representatives. Now the county – i.e. the bureaucrats – will alone govern the law and this too with the use of objection. How does the representative Lundtigen feel about this in order to strengthen the influence of the elected representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e312	The most important thing in that line was the point that the Central Party stands for a socialist policy. It is particularly important to hear that the Progress Party has not read Marx so well that it is known that socialism, in its true sense, involves the opposite of private property rights, namely state property rights – public property rights. The centre party is the foremost defender of private property – a type of private property that has a broad understanding of society and that can be further developed, as opposed to the property rights that we have seen further south in Europe, or in the United States. There are major conflicts of ownership, because people don't find the community of it. In Norway, family use is a property tradition that is long-term and sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e317	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e321	Agricultural property law is both comprehensive and complex. What we are going to consider here today is the Government's proposal for changes to the law of nobility, the law of the land and the law of the concession. Overall, the provisions of these laws provide an important framework for what individuals can do with their property, while at the same time having a bearing on the implementation of the agricultural policy of a broad majority in this room. The background to the proposition is a desire to simplify and coordinate while making changes more targeted and effective in agricultural legislation so that it can contribute in a better way than at present to the achievement of our agricultural policy objectives. Changes in the sizes of the land are also made in the law of nobility and the law of concession in order to avoid the association of nobility, dwelling and concession obligations with properties that have the character of being residential or leisure property rather than agricultural property. The changes made here are based on thorough investigations mainly through the work of the Odel Law Committee, but also through the administrative reform and changes in administrative legislation. The consultation carried out by the Ministry provided broad support for the amendments. For many years, for various reasons, there has been a significant decline in the number of agricultural holdings. Although this take-off is now in the process of stagnating, there have been fewer active farmers, but we have almost the same area and animal numbers in production now as 20 years ago. We see that the agricultural property is driven and also occupied after independent operation ceases. There is little doubt that living and working is an important reason why we have managed to maintain housing in the districts and a living agriculture with self-owning farmers. The interaction between the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the land contributes greatly to a broad and diverse agriculture in this country that balances the needs for long-term and sustainable resource management with food production and the commercial exploitation of the same resources. In the nations we were able to read yesterday that the majority of the business committee has written comments in this position, which could mean both a drop in the price of agricultural property and a clear liberalisation if they are taken into account. Yeah, it might be like this. I think it's important that we have a law that is adapted to the different framework conditions in different places in our country. The proposition points out that the price round should allow a public authority to clarify the issue of price in advance of the sale, as supported by the majority, of which the Workers' Party is part. As today's concession law provides for price controls to be carried out after a sale has taken place, several have become aware that the price will be readjusted in retrospect. We will be able to remove this uncertainty factor if the concession price can be clarified in advance. The buyer and the seller will then know what they have to do with them. We have therefore asked the Ministry to assess whether the concession price should not, as a general rule, be determined in advance in the course of the work they have to do with the price round. In terms of the size of the otter circuit, practices show some unfortunate outcomes. The Workers' Party is therefore involved in a majority opinion in which we ask the Ministry to look at the scale of the nobility. We see that there are major differences in the community-Norway regarding the practice of the legislation on the exemption of residence. The possibilities of getting exemptions depend on where in the country you're away, and I think that might be right. Now, when we introduce land limits and the discretionary criteria go away, we'll probably get a slightly more consistent practice of this provision. However, it has been important for us that the law should still be able to open up local discretion, since we in this country have varied the natural basis and very different income potential. It is also likely that the wit is fairly evenly distributed around the municipalities, and that local adjustments may be in place. For us, it is essential that the changes in the rules contribute to the proper functioning of housing, which is to make people live in farms, and that we get nutrient development and activity in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e345	The government parties have a majority comment that goes on the ban on division in Section 12 of the Soil Act. The representative Lundtigen was also involved in that comment, and he said that this should only be practised in cases where it was arroncipal to a better structure. There's nothing in this note. I understood the representative Haugen there that the majority argues that there can be significant liberalisation in relation to the demarcation of tuna and soil for the sale of land to other farmers who want to expand their business. How is this comment to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e350	The undersigned understands this comment as it is formulated, so that in parts of the country it may be a very appropriate solution to divide from tuna and sell cultivated land for neighboring use and thus get a living space and perhaps a higher value. Other locations in the country may be very appropriate to sell such smaller properties in vain, as it turns out to be an attractive sales item.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e355	I see this as a significant liberalisation of the Soil Act § 12. It will be interesting when the government returns to Stortinget with this matter. What is strange here is that the government parties did not promote this in connection with the legal work. I find that very strange. I will assume that there has been pressure from electoral groups who have said: Listen to the Advancement Party, they have a lot of sense to come along! There has been pressure to contribute to the liberalisation of the practice of Section 12 of the Soil Act. Then I just want to ask the representative Haugen if this pressure has been as large as I believe it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e362	I can say that it definitely hasn't been. This is the result of a good working relationship between the Red-Green politicians in the Business Committee and a forward-looking proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e367	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e370	During this process of enlargement, which is now nearing the end, the Economic and Social Committee has had very many debates on the issues to which this matter relates. We have had issues relating both to the law of nobility, to the law of the land and to the law of the concession. The outcome of those debates has been that the government parties and the two agriculture ministers who have been from the Central Party during this major period have given negative feedback on contributing to some kind of liberalisation and simplification of this legislation. These debates have shown that they will carry out a review of the legislation during the period. And then we get this thing. It is produced in the media from the government parties to help liberalise the law. I'll take a great distance from that. A major contribution has been made to further tightening the law on agricultural property laws. As I have said quite often, the view of the Progress Party is that this law helps to limit the possibilities for development in agriculture. Agriculture today is quite different from agriculture when these laws were introduced in Norway. Today, young people growing up in agriculture and farming have every option of opting out of agriculture if they want. Having the right to an agricultural property feels in many cases a heavy burden to bear and a heavy obligation to carry on. It can also help prevent younger siblings who have a greater interest in and better prerequisites for farming from slipping away. The law also contributes to the fact that we almost do not have a supply on the market of viable agricultural properties. The Odel Act contributes to it by removing relatives coming and taking properties on nodel. The concession law contributes in its own way by keeping the prices of agricultural property at a low level, completely contrary to what is common on the property market. It contributes to the fact that owners of agricultural properties do not see themselves profited from selling because you are not paid for the values that the property represents. The Party wishes to re-establish the ownership of agriculture. We want agriculture to have the same rules as other types of property market. We think that's going to make a positive impact on agriculture, on ownership and on those who today have their wealth placed in agricultural properties. The majority have a comment asking for consideration of the practice of § 12 of the Soil Act. It is difficult to understand this comment as something other than coming to the opposition by now, in twelfths of an hour, having turned to the attitude that is shown earlier in the setting, and as has been shown in other matters that we have dealt with in this period. What's strange is that you don't use the occasion when we first have this case for treatment, because it's part of the units that we get the kind of revision of this law that we've had now. Nor do we want the County Agriculture Boards to be shut down. County Agriculture Administrations, as long as we have this law, the popular sense, and it's important to strengthen, not weaken. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e387	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e392	The party of progress, together with the Right, believes that the obligation to live is an excessive interference in private property rights and underpins this with the Housing Survey of Building Research, which shows that 95 pst. by those who live on residential properties would have lived there anyway. Is there not a confirmation that the obligation to live does not feel like a restriction on ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e397	I see this as a confirmation that we do not need this law. It shows that people want to live in rural areas, on agricultural properties, on their own free will, without having to have a strict law that will somehow force people to do so. But I think it's interesting that the government parties don't want to encourage people to live in rural areas, but you want to have a law that forces people to live in rural areas, and that's something we take a great distance from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e405	As I said in the post, the Progress Party stands for a rare extremist policy on property issues. It's the money to decide everything, no other thing to decide who owns the agricultural land. The Government Parties make up two adjustments. It is the housing value of the price assessments, that more emphasis is placed on housing value – which is wise – and one suggests that the Government should take a closer look at Section 12 of the Soil Law on the prohibition of sharing, so that, in exceptional cases, attention may be given to considerations other than those of the present case. What I want answers to is, one of the most important things that the government does is to tighten up personal living. I guess that's what the proponent's figure here puts the most emphasis on when he says that there is no liberalisation on the part of the government parties; it's on the contrary a tightening of the most important duty, that's personal living, and it's a great burden for the Progress Party to have to admit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e414	First, I would like to distance myself from the fact that the Progress Party in this area represents some extremist policy. The Progress Party has a point of view in this area that is supported by the majority of people here in the country. I just have to refer to what I said in the reply to the reply from the representative Arne L. Haugen, that a curtailment of the obligation to live is the wrong instrument. So people have to be forced to live in rural areas instead of having positive means that make people want to live and work in rural areas. You can ask yourself the question, how the representative Lundtigen and the government parties have intended to follow up on the fact that people really care for their living conditions. It'll be through dune lifting, probably. It's a policy that we take a great distance from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e421	On behalf of the government parties, I am very proud of the tightening up of my personal living obligation. I'm very proud that it's now set up for a system that's the opposite of cloudlifting. There is population registration in each municipality, and it is very central to a question where it is a scarcely good that needs to be distributed – a scarcely good that there are an incredible number of thousands of young people who want to take over. Those young people want there to be obligations, so that they can show that they want to give something back. But my question is related to the extremist, and the question is: What parties in the Norwegian big business have ever suggested that one should abolish both the law of the land, the law of the land and the law of the concession? What are the parties that have been so extremist ever in the Norwegian bigotry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e428	I find it interesting that the representative Lundtigen, of all people, accuses the Progress Party of being extremist. If you asked the Norwegian people if it was the Progress Party or the representative Lundtägen a perceived extremist, I think the answer to that would have been fairly clear. The Progress Party wants to strengthen ownership through the steps we propose in this law. We do not take ownership of the proposals we are making!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e435	This is when the queue change is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e438	Ot. pp. No 44 for 2008-2009, on the one hand, provides for the modernisation and updating of the comprehensive legislation we have for property in Norway, particularly on the agricultural side. It may be positive regardless of the simplification and clarity of provisions. The bill makes changes to no less than eight laws relating to property policy and is based on a relatively extensive legal investigation work in advance, in particular with regard to the right of attorney and the right of appeal. On the other hand, the timing of this proposition makes a very clear difference in the ownership policy in Norway. In fact, the red-green parties have a note that speaks very much about ownership and the importance of personal ownership in a long-term generation perspective, but this celebration of ownership is unfortunately a mere diversion from the realities of this case, which is a continuation and, in part, a strong intensification of laws and regulations that weaken the rights of farmers and other landowners and landowners to own property. Let me just make it clear in the introduction that the Right wants a major change in the course in terms of ownership. We believe that it will strengthen the values of the districts, increase the income potential of farmers, make the agricultural industry in Norway more robust and adaptable to the future, and strengthen the individual's private ownership. The last is for the Right a principal important and independent goal. So this case is about the right to vote, the right of establishment, the obligation to reside, the prohibition on sharing and the price regulation on farm use through the concession law. The right is in favour of the modernisation and extension of the right to property, even if it is also the subject of debate, against property rights. The reason why the Right continues to exercise the right of attorney is that this gives predictability through generation change and a contribution to long-term personal ownership. I still see the paradoxes that lie in the fact that the odelrights segment the property structure and restrict the freedom of movement of holdings. In the case of government price regulation in the case of the purchase and sale of privately owned Norwegian farm, the Right of the view is that this is a totally unfair old-fashioned socialistic heritage. We have solid experience that adult individuals themselves are fully able to determine what is a reasonable price when trading residential property as well as all other commercial activities in Norway. Then it seems quite strange that you have to have your own, state-owned farm price control system. The fact that people who have built up farm and residential property through generations are going to reduce a finished negotiated selling price because the agricultural bureaucracy believes that the price is higher than the theoretical operating base on the farm is quite unreasonable in my opinion. This involves a clean transfer of values from the seller to the buyer and can be considered as a sort of state confiscation of private values. The negative effects of this are obvious: price reduction prevents the marketing of farm use and prevents initial investment in the years preceding any sale. Price regulation means that Norwegian farmers leaving the industry are deprived of large amounts if, as a result of agricultural conversion, they have to leave the industry and find a normal dwelling in a free housing market without price regulation. Here I record that in the public debate, the case-rapporteur rides two horses and tries to double-communise the Central Party's policy on price regulation of property. It is only to note that this case still confirms state price control for Norwegian farmers. The obligation to live is a similar hopeless interference with ownership, and it is quite serious that the Government extends the obligation to settle the estate also for agricultural property and housing with municipal housing. The reality is that if people don't use the house the way politicians want to do, the state spends housing on forced sales. With today's change, if the heirs do not re-establish the use of the property as a whole-yearly dwelling, dwellings that are today leisure property could be forced to be sold by an inheritance settlement. There are 35 000 empty farmhouses around Norway. We have 40 pst. share of land rent in Norwegian agriculture. It is about 180 000 agricultural holdings, but less than 50 000 active farmers. In my opinion, it is obvious that the Norwegian property regulations have a negative effect, not only for thousands of families and individuals, but also for Norwegian agriculture and for the development of Norwegian municipalities. If we are to achieve a dynamic and agricultural development, we must accept a marked deregulation of property laws, including the removal of the ban on sharing in the law. I record that the government parties come continuously after the Right with some signals regarding the ban on sharing and the rental soil problem, but the signals are weak and without any specific content. Overall, this major issue of law is a continuation of a failed part of Norwegian agricultural and district policy. It is not based on professional evidence and knowledge of what is good for Norwegian farmers and landowners, but on political ideology and nostalgia. I want to include the Right proposal in the vote – those that we have promoted alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e461	Then the representative Torbjørn Hansen drew up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e466	The right, together with the Progress Party, believes that the price of agricultural property should be set on the market and that there should be no restriction on what an agricultural property could be traded for. Administrations shall remain far away, market liberalism shall be fully effective and undisrupted by regulation. Now that market liberalisation is collapsing in countries by country around the world, is there no concern in the Right about any possible consequences this may have in relation to property turnover in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e471	It is tempting to withdraw a parallel to a case we dealt with earlier today, in Stortinget, about Entra Eiendom, which operates in this fully market-liberalist system where you can set prices free and trade, buy and sell as you like. There is free pricing for all other property in Norway — there is full freedom to set prices for all other industrial activities in Norway. I think it is amazing that the Workers' Party believes that it is harmful to agriculture that a purchaser and a seller of a farm property agree on a price, a price that is proportionate to the operating basis, a price that is proportional to the housing property, a price that is proportionate to the location on the farm. This fear of free pricing on farm use, mechanisms that you have in all other areas of society, is completely incomprehensible, and I can see that this is nothing but a purely ideological hanging-up compared to an area that should have been deregulated a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e476	I went back and referred to the Adler-Falsen Constitutional Draft. I could refer to the odel law, which is enshrined in the Constitution. When the representative from the Right comes with «old-socialistic heritage», the best characteristic of it is: historyless. It is true that the government adds to price control – thank you and price – the use value of land, the cost value of buildings, and that housing value can be added more weight – great. The lot Right suggests that one should strengthen the income potential in case of non-sales. At best, there are disposable incomes, but that's the right way to solve the income problem in agriculture. My question is that the Right says that one should strengthen the farmers. When properties are to be sold, there is a choice between a farmer and one who has money, one who has money that does not want to live and will not operate. Is anyone who doesn't want to live and doesn't want to drive called a farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e485	There is a great deal to be taken up in these decades by the representative of Lundtegen. I would say that the policy we have in this area is based on lack of knowledge. There is no professional knowledge of the consequences of price regulation, housing obligations and the prohibition of sharing. The only thing we see in the statistics is that this substantiates the property structure. We have 180 000 farm estates in Norway, only 50 000 active farmers, and that the representative Lundtigen believes that this system is good for Norwegian farmers is completely incomprehensible. On the contrary, it would be good for active farmers who will bet for the future, that they will have the opportunity to buy more land, and can operate on their own property. What we see here is the consequence here is many small uses, you get a lot of land rent and an agriculture that is slightly forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e491	The issue of prices is enshrined in the law of nobility in the right of establishment and is intended to ensure that the person taking over a non-resident receives income from his work. What is now the discussion is the price regulation of the concession law. Then it's referred to small uses. The government has said, and the committee has said, that one should focus on the value in use of land and the cost value of buildings, and that one should focus more on the value of housing. Thus, smaller properties can obtain a higher housing value and thus be sold at a higher concession price. It will increase supply and provide opportunities for young people. Isn't this an improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e498	It seems then that the representative Lundtigen argues that if the concession price approaches the market price, then that is an improvement. But then it will be a much greater improvement just to remove the entire price regulation and make sure that the market puts what is right – that the seller of a use and the buyer of a use agree, and that the state does not interfere with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e503	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e506	I refer to the notes from the red-green in the setting, but I will try to lift my eyes and supplement them a little in relation to what it says. Because it's right, as many people say, that agriculture is a very regulated industry. It should also be, it is actually right that agriculture is a regulated industry. This is because agriculture has to meet some of the main objectives set by the Storting. Then there must be a regulated industry. We see, for example: what happens to non-regulated industries through the financial crisis. We cannot take the chance that agriculture can come into a similar situation when it provides such important functions for the Norwegian people. And the most important thing is that agriculture provides us with food. We have to make sure that we take care of the food soil, that the food soil is taken care of in such a way that it lasts for a long time – forever we're going to use this food earth – and so that we produce food everywhere. We don't have enough food in Norway. The population is increasing steadily, we're approaching 5 million people, and with the evolution we see in relation to it, it's going to be less and less of the food that we need, that we produce sail. This means that we have to ring about the food soil, we have to make sure that we have good laws, good regulations that make the food soil well cared for. Another important goal, which all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, have established many times on the Stortinget, is that you want to preserve today's housing patterns. Norway is one of the best countries in the world to have an active district policy. Prime Minister Göran Persson said when he was in Norway after he had resigned as Prime Minister in Sweden, that he was impressed by what Norway had done in relation to taking care of scattered settlements, as opposed to the policies such as: Sweden had led. Yes, it is important to take care of scattered settlements, but then we are also dependent on having an agriculture throughout the country, a regulated industry that makes it live people everywhere. That is why the intensification of the obligation to live has come, in my view, and in the eyes of SV, is very, very, very right. The housing was diluting, and this tightening, I think, is going to end when people feel that there is no light in the houses, that beautiful properties are actually not inhabited, but that there are actually someone inside now and then. I believe that family use has been a success in Norway. Family use is a success. It is a tradition that you should take care of the farm and preferably leave it in better condition than when you took it. That way you make sure that this very food soil that I'm talking about, and these beautiful properties, is good both in terms of food production, and not least in relation to having a country that lives, a country that we're proud of all of us. Then I have recorded in the debate that one discusses who are extremists etc. And there is no doubt that there are great ideological differences between the red-greens on the one hand, and the Progress Party and the Right on the other. It's very easy to get it out. In a possible poll among the Norwegian people, I think one would be proud of Norwegian agriculture, and that one would actually want agriculture to continue as today, with the reasons I gave earlier. So calling the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen an extremist, I think it's strange. He is extreme in one sense, the representative Lundtigen: he has been extremely good at fighting for Norwegian agriculture and for Norwegian districts for many years, and there is great respect for that. My party, and I sail, appears that Lundtigen deserves anything but criticism for the job he does. He is a real hot spokesman for Norwegian agriculture and for Norwegian districts, and we need such people on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e520	I have to take a strong distance from the claims made by the representative Inge Ryan that there are some people who don't want to have an agriculture all over the country and who don't want to have a scattered settlement. It's completely wrong. What I was going to ask the representative, Inge Ryan, was: in the last line between the representative, Hansen, and the representative, Lundtigen, we were told that price adjustments were important, otherwise only the rich would buy properties. What we see today is that it's the rich who get bought properties. We have the matter of Upper Vilberg Farm, where Stein Erik Hagen's daughter got to buy a property, even within the current regime. We also have one thing now in Westby, where the skipping wing Petter Olsen gets a property for tens of millions of dollars. Does the representative, Inge Ryan, worry that it is just the rich who are being bought today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e527	First of all to the Progress Party and this with housing and agriculture throughout the country: when, in programmes and in proposals, we want to reduce agricultural transfers as much as the Progress Party wants, when it says that agricultural aid should be phased out in the long term, we all realize that it would be possible to have agriculture in Sogn and Fjordane and in Inner Namdal, from which I come, will be impossible with the policies of the Progress Party, as it will lead to a dramatic depopulation of Norway. It's not just that you say that, you also suggest it in the Storting. No, I don't want the rich to have access to buy properties. Obviously, there are examples of rich people getting bought properties, and we can't resist that, of course, because if there's regulation on prices, it's that sometimes there are rich people who get hold of these properties, sometimes people who are less rich. So I don't see it with price regulation as determining whether there is a rich or a small empire that gets purchased properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e534	When I listen to Inge Ryan's contributions, I feel that there are good intentions, it's a desire to get light in the houses in the districts, and that's what kind of a dream is behind these property regulations, but it's easy to see that these are illusions, which are not based on facts. If you look at the relationship with the dwelling, which is the big tool in this context, and which is a gross intervention against many, you'll see that 20 pst. gives the bluff to the place of residence. They just don't want to do it. But those who actually live there would live there anyway. So it shows that the housing obligation has no effect on how many people are doing a full-year residence in the districts. How, then, can it be said that this is an instrument that ensures light in the houses around Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e541	The reason why I feel that the obligation to live is important is that the many natural pearls that farmers currently possess are part of the country over which they have been given the right to live, and it is inherited. It is wrong to dispose of the type of property if you do not choose to live there, and take care of it, and contribute to the environment in which you live. I know that there's considerable frustration in many places where the housing obligation goes around, because these nice properties are kind of just halfway exploited. That's wrong. Once you have access to that kind of property, you also have to live there completely and contribute to the community of which you are a part. I think that a tightening up of living conditions will make it less of an attempt to circumvent the rules that have been up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e550	It is interesting to hear the argument from the representative Inge Ryan when he says that we are totally dependent on having this tight law to ensure that people live in the districts, among other things. in Nord-Trøndelag, where the representative Inge Ryan comes from. Then he also indirectly says that if we remove this law, people will move in large streams, among other things. from Nord-Trøndelag. I find that strange that a representative from the Nord-Trøndelag could say. What we have been told in the nutrition committee when we have traveled all over the country, including: in Nord-Trøndelag, there is a significant deportation from the districts and into the central strut today. That's what I notice, which represents Akershu's state, where there's a significant move. Is the representative, Inge Ryan, proud of the flow of red-greens that the red-greens contribute to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e559	The red-green policy contributes to less relocation than if the Progress Party had been in power. I am quite convinced of that. The fact that we have centralisation in Norway, the fact that Norway is slipping against Oslofjord, does not mean that we should have less policy. It requires more policy. We must have more district policy, because it is an explicit wish of this Parliament that we should have a country-wide settlement. And other countries are looking to Norway because we've been good at managing the whole country in a good way, but not good enough, not good enough, and that's why we need more district policy and not less district policy. If the Progress Party comes to power, we will have no district policy, and that will be dramatic in relation to that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e567	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e570	The Christian People's Party is concerned about the disembarkation from gardening here in the country. Without obligation, we are overestimated that there will be a market for agricultural property to become large leisure properties for capital investors who are only encircling for short periods, such as holidays and the like. It is not this Christian People's Party that sees as a living village or as a forward-looking agricultural policy. Tests last year confirm that the obligation provides more stable constituency. Nine out of ten never seek exemption from the obligation, and among these there are over 90 pst. the likelihood that they will remain on the garden for more than 40 years after being moved in. If the garden user has applied for an exemption, it is more likely that the garden will be removed after the period of exemption. The Christian People's Party, like the League, believes that there should still be a longer ban on no partial dissolution. We think this should be ten years, over five years in the event of a second transfer. Thus, the Christian People's Party proposes a second sentence of Section 5 of the Concession Act, which states: «In the event of nobility, the transferee must occupy the property for at least 10 years.» The Christian People's Party has taken note of the proposal to lift § 29. This may help to ensure that others who are entitled to no part are not warned when the municipality requires the owner to apply for a concession. For the public, this leads to less work, but for those who are entitled to no part, it can lead to legal loss. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that those who are entitled to no part must be alerted in such a situation. We propose a new section 29 of the odelslova, which says: «In the case of transfers of property, the municipality must notify the other non-residents.» The Christian People's Party supports the repeal of Section 78, so that there will be full equality between women and men, even when it applies to men born before 1965. At the same time, there are some men who were born before 1965 and who have older sisters, but who have refused to take over their parents’ agricultural property. These have often taken agricultural challenges and settled on or near the property. For those who have settled on their property, municipalities have in some cases refused the assignment of land to the listed houses. In the absence of specific measures, the consequences for these individuals may be large and negative, not least economically. I am disappointed that the government party does not support the Christian People's Party's proposal at this point, to offer these men specific measures and a compensation scheme for the loss they suffered. Finally, I will present the Christian People's Party's proposals that go forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e585	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e588	Odelstinget is currently finishing a case that has gone over very many years. It was probably the center government that reduced the Odel Law Committee, with the selection leader Falkanger. The work continued under the Stoltenberg I Government, and under the Bondevik II Government, under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Left, the sample was given an extended mandate to assess the property itself. The reason for this is that most Western nations have for the longest time removed the right to vote. When the Odel Law Committee delivered its cancellation, it was divided according to the law itself. A majority wanted to retain it, while a minority — including the sample leader, Professor Falkanger — wanted to abolish the right to vote, but retained the right to vote. In a more popular language, removing the succession to the farm, but retaining the right that you can call an inheritance discount to run a farm, means a crucial right to be able to take over a farm within the family. Left supports minority views of this sample. In a liberal, democratic state, we believe that there should not be inheritance and genetics that determine the possibilities of a human being. I may be tempted to borrow the slogans of the Socialist Left Party: ‘Various people. Equal opportunities’. For the Left, it's an ideological and fundamental point of view that positions should not be inherited. Odelsrecht was in its time a good way to organize the queue of heirs and relatives that would like to take over some of the most valuable one could have, namely a farm. Today, the queue is gone, and therefore, the Left believes it is time to remove the ostrich cooling system. In addition to the purely principle, there are also agricultural policy arguments to eliminate the rights of the individual. Today's osteoart can prevent the most motivated from having the opportunity to live off and live on a farm. An estimated 80 pst. of the agricultural properties of cultivated land and large forest and open-air areas are now odels soils. It implies that through birth there is a very narrow circle of people who get a preference for these values, and it is difficult for others to obtain an agricultural property. In the view of the Left, this is a direct obstacle to recruiting motivated and innovative people for an industry that, unfortunately, is in many parts of the world. The left is convinced that what agriculture and districts need are motivated and eager people who are motivated, not obliged. In the view of the Left, the Right of First Instance has expired. I would therefore like us today to have a fundamental debate on the law of nobility, which is not just about patching and adjusting the law of the day, but about the law, as the main device is, playing a desired role in a modern society. In the Left's view, it doesn't. Many of the so-called benefits that the majority, who want to keep today's legislation, invoke, can well be achieved in a way that is, in principle, more correct and more systematic and effective through other instruments, such as: the law of the concession and the law of the law of the state of the art, which the Left will retain. If the right to vote had been lifted, the farmers would have been given exactly the same rights as today. In addition, they would have a right to: the right to dispose of their property in the same way as everyone else, to decide who will take over the farm after them. The left will therefore vote against Roman numerals in §§ 1–50 and §§ 58–79. In addition, the proposal, which I take up on behalf of the Left, to abolish state housing and allow municipalities to impose housing obligations in all or part of the municipality, to strengthen local democracy and to provide a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are essentially a place to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e605	The representative Alvhild Hedstein has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e610	I am very pleased with what was said that we had to pay greater attention to innovative and motivated people who are going to take over farming. I give that my full support. In all my work I have worked for it, and so has the Center Party. However, when it is said that positions are not to be inherited, and that there is no inheritance and genetics to determine the future of humans, it is a gross distortion, for it is a free choice to take over or not. It's not a duty. For the most part, all people in Norway, whether ethnically or not, can acquire no part. It's a great system that doesn't exclude anyone. I had very much appreciated a fundamental debate on the law of no part, on how we should take advantage of the advantages of the law of no part, where one of the institutes is to deliver the garden in a better condition than when one took over. But my question is, it was said that Western countries have for the longest time removed the right to vote. What countries are the ones that have removed the ostrich?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e619	I do not have an overview of which countries, but I know that there are few countries that have the right to vote as practised in Norway today. For the left, the most important thing is that those who want to get a chance to take over. The representative Lundtigen is quite right that there is no formal obligation to take over, but it is a fact that many people feel this burdensome. Since you have referred literature from far back in time today, we can refer to quite a number of good Norwegian authors, Garborg and others, who have spent a lot of their lives getting through the nobility that they themselves experienced as a very burdensome duty in their lives. The left will have settled and not resided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e628	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e631	It is then clear in the setting that the left is in favour of housing, even municipal housing, but that is perhaps misunderstood? It's true that many writers have written about farm land and housing and what is there, and that's probably how it's going to be in the future, because there's something charming and fascinating about what inspires many young people. But I want to follow up on my question about the countries that have removed the right to vote. As far as I know, there are no other countries in Europe that have had or have the right to vote, so there is no country that has removed the right to vote. When we in Norway have had a right of nobility, we have secured through it a long-term management of agricultural property, we have secured the distribution of properties, which is an important prerequisite for democracy and for the distribution of power. I don't understand that the old Left, who was a hot defender of that system, is now going to get a continuation of its policy in the Norwegian metropolitan area that reminds me more of right-wing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e642	Left is a batch that dares to assess its position against new realities. When the right to vote was introduced, there was a queue of people who wanted to take over property. That queue is gone today, and it is illogical for us to keep a cooling system for a queue that does not exist. That's why we believe that the right to vote has survived itself, and that it's time to remove it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e647	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e651	Today, Norway has a living agriculture all over the country. Four out of five farms are inhabited, and most farm holdings are owned by businesses, whether large or small. It's valuable. I am concerned that this will also be the case in the future. The prerequisite for success is an interaction between the owners and society – a social contract. Owners, on their part, must be conscious of their administrative responsibility for farm resources, and society, on its part, must be conscious and willing to contribute to both legal and economic framework conditions in order to maintain the cultural landscape, industry and the local environment. The current changes are aimed at strengthening the legal instruments so that the good results can also be achieved in the years to come. In my opinion, there is a significant legal work that is being completed today. The work is based on several processes that have been in progress for several years. In this context, I would like to highlight in particular the work of the Odel Law Committee, and refer in this regard to NOU 2003:26. Odelrechten has been central to Norway for centuries, for more than a thousand years. It has been a strong contributor to the decentralization of power, to the avoidance of a noble empire, and it has helped to give us a self-owning peasantry that in turn has helped shape the Norwegian society. Odel law has also contributed to the fact that agricultural property has often been owned by the same family of several relatives. In 2008, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg assumed that the right to vote should continue to have its own protection under the Constitution. The legislative proposal is based on this. Odel law has, through many genealogical groups, created attitudes that have led to long-term and personal ownership of agricultural property. The proposition contains many different proposals for changes. One important proposal is that housing, for example: shall relate only to property of a certain size and only to property which is or has been used for residential purposes. Another very important proposal is to raise the land area limit for residential and non-residential property, so that fewer properties will be covered by these rules in the future. This may mean that nearly 19,000 more properties than today can be sold on a national basis in a more open market. Through this division, municipalities are strengthened their ability to improve both business and housing opportunities. Legislation lays down certain rules relating to the ownership of agricultural property. I think that's right and necessary. In an unregulated market, young people who want to live in the countryside and bet on nutrition will easily lose out in competition. Many are concerned with the conditions of those who want to sell, those who want to leave the farm. I'm more concerned with those who want to buy, those who want to go into agriculture. In the vast majority of cases, Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian farmers will be served by this perspective. On the other hand, they will not be served with a release which is the basis on which the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party are based. Such a release could completely change the structure of the Norwegian agricultural industry. The representatives from the Right have made a point in many ways that we have a large rent share in Norway today, and that housing and price control are the cause of this. I want to put a big question mark on that analysis. Part of the Netherlands and parts of Germany are examples of countries with a much higher rent share than what we have in Norway. This is a country that has no housing obligation, price control or, for that matter, no extraterritorial rights. In my opinion, therefore, the question of developing the leased land share is a much more complex issue than the representatives of the Right say. The legislative proposal also contains changes related to a third group of properties that have not been so much mentioned today. It's the clean properties. The rules on reduced concession, the so-called 0-frontier rules, must not be confused with the agricultural property legislation. I have recorded that also a number of municipalities where the local government has a majority from the opposition parties have chosen to have such regulations, and that there has been a strong local commitment to keeping the regulations, for example. in whales and on Nøtterøy. Housing on residential property is a matter of places such as Røros and Wyler to be a living community year-round, or whether to become dead scenes for holidaymakers a few weeks a year. The current rules provide that many all-year-old dwellings are actually used for recreational purposes because close relatives can take over without concession. A large majority of the municipalities which have expressed their views have sought a solution where close relatives must apply for a concession if such property is not to be used for annual residence. Here, through this amendment of the law, we open up the possibility for municipalities to increase their ability to control and influence their housing on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e671	State Council Breck said in his statement that the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right would contribute to a major change in the property structure of agriculture. But then we see that the government parties have a majority comment where it says: ‘However, the majority believe that it is important to facilitate greater harmonisation between the property structure and the use structure, so that more of the land can become an active, rather than passive, ownership.’ So here the Council of State speaks to itself, in a way. He has received a job here from his parties in Stortinget. I could well imagine hearing how he views this work assignment, and when he intends to come to the Stortinget to fulfill the wish regarding changes to the Law of Earth § 12?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e681	The ban on sharing – I guess that’s what we’re talking about now – came into the law in 1955 because many owners at the time broke up agricultural property by sharing, and without the ban, I have reason to believe that the situation today would not be worth mentioning differently. If there is no ban on sharing, I think many would like to split the properties, especially in relation to inheritance and change. Agricultural properties in Norway are consistently small, and if it becomes freely available to divide them further, the production potential of the properties will be weakened. However, as also mentioned by the majority of the Grand Duchy, there is a need to look at sharing practices, so that more than today, it is possible for an owner who does not wish to use the property for housing and agricultural production to retain the population, but to sell the land as additional land for active use in the area. As I said, it's a problem that the Business Committee has asked the Government to look into. I want to do that, and I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner as soon as possible with assessments relating to the operation and settlement that that review must lead to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e688	I have two questions about housing. Agriculture is already subject to compulsory housing. 95 pst. by those who would do so anyway, they say in a survey conducted by Building Research, while 20 pst. who has a dwelling obligation has overlooked it and has not complied with the obligation of living at all. This means that the dwelling has no effect in relation to the residence on this type of farm. Can the Council of State give us any comments on the consequences of the removal of the obligation to live in these farms? The second is what the Council of State was about whether the kinship paragraph that is now being removed in relation to the 0 concession. This means that residential property that has been used as leisure property for many years will be subject to a dwelling obligation if a generation change is made. And that means in plain text that the state is forcing property that the family has to make a generation change. Does not the Council of State see that this is quite unreasonable for those affected?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e697	The right-hand side and the Progress Party show that the obligation of housing forces the agricultural population to live on their properties. They also refer to, as the representative Hansen now stresses, that the rules don't work because people want to live on their properties anyway. I think that the approach to this issue seems to be based on ideology rather than an assessment of actual circumstances. The investigation by Building Research, which the representatives claim is based on the claim that housing does not work, shows that the owners do not live on their property because of coercion, but because they want to live there. That's right. In addition, as with previous studies, the study shows that four out of five owners live on their property. I'm glad that the effect of this policy shows that 80 pst. lives and operates its own property. However, the conclusion of the researchers is not that the rules are unnecessary, as right-wing claims. Researchers say that the abolition of housing will over time weaken local ownership and weaken permanent residence. I would assume that the researchers are closer to commenting on their own material than what the Right is, and I have – as the researchers – confidence that living conditions work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e704	In this case, the Government removes the provisions on the County Agricultural Boards. I myself have been a member of the district agricultural board in Akershus and have seen that once you have this legislation, it is important that the legislation is respected by elected representatives who are responsible to people in the county. It surprises me that the Center Party is involved in this. But is it true that the Central Party follows its official tradition and wants to remove popular influence from this important part of the policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e709	In the context of this reform, part of the responsibilities of the county agricultural boards are now transferred to the county council. The establishment of a body or the use of a body to deal with agricultural policy issues by the county council is free. There is also something I have answered in connection with questions from Kielland Asmyhr earlier. What remains of the county is the handling of complaints and the right to object. I think that is right, because a national agricultural policy is pursued through that action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e716	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e721	The housing obligation restricts private ownership, and it does not work. Nevertheless, the red-green and the majority are putting forward a law that further tightens their living conditions. The situation related to agriculture and the 35 000 empty farms have been duly mentioned in the debate — including the survey from Building Research. But the question the Council of State has never answered is, Why does the Minister of Agriculture still agree to carry oats to a dead horse? The figures are clear: the housing obligation has a minimal impact on all-year housing in Norwegian farms and the legislation is broken to a large extent. All-year housing needs to be ensured by people wanting to live in Norwegian farms themselves. Should the Council of State do something positive for the settlement, he should do the opposite, namely to liberalize property regulations, as proposed by the Right in Document No. 8:40 for 2006-2007. In addition, when the Council of State and the Government go in to remove the family paragraph, which means that they are part of forced property out of the family, property that could have been a central part of the family's holiday life and identity over a long period of time, neither Norwegian agriculture, nor Norwegian identity, nor culture. It was strange to hear the last part of the line change, when it was said that the researchers are supporting Norwegian housing. For Norway’s leading residential authority, Professor Normann Aanesland at UMB, it is clear in its conclusion. The government obviously lives by the American historian Henry Brooks Adams' quote: Politics is the art of ignoring facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e738	I experience that the representative Gitmark very picturesquely describes the situation when he claims that this government will coerce residential property on the south coast or where there is a zero concession limit. Of course that's not right. What we're doing is we're giving municipalities a way of caring for their housing. It's a great paradox that the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party never mention that the majority of the 66 municipalities that have the zero concession limit are governed by the same parties that are here opponents of the arrangement. It is the same municipalities that have stated in the consultation round that they wish to continue this legislation. A majority of them even want to expand it, with the relative exemption. It's a great paradox, I think, that the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, who have their own party colleagues in many of the municipalities it's about, do not take care of the interests of these municipalities, but, on an ideological basis, take care of this issue, and on an ideological basis contribute to the fact that people do not live rather than have dead holiday scenes much of the year. That's the issue. It's an ideological and honest discussion. But it is a discussion promoted by Gitmark's own party colleagues in many, many municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e743	I just have to strongly distance myself from the undocumented claims made here by the Council of State, that elected representatives of the Advance Party are in favour of living. I don't think so. I have to ask the Council to document these claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e748	I would like to stress what the Council of State said, that what we are experiencing here today is a straightforward discussion on an ideological basis. There is a very big difference between the Progress Party and the Right on the one hand and the Government Parties on the other hand in the ownership policy. The government parties stand on a safe national tradition, which has proved to be very effective, and which has led to a spread of power through the spread of property rights. We have young people from different communities who have been given the privilege of taking over a farm property. We've been given a management of our natural resources that is better in relation to other countries, because we have a property understanding that invites us to interact with property rights and property obligations. And we have a tradition where money placement is subordinate to the purchase of property and the management of the property actively through housing and operations. And thank you for that. What's the matter is that the obligation to live is working. There have been many examples of breaking the legislation. That is why the Government has now come up with a simpler regulation, but a more powerful and easier follow-up legislation. The Bondevik II government, with an agricultural minister from the Left, undermined, undermined, housing regulations, and we got discrimination, which is now, fortunately, corrected. The right party has its anchor in holiday life and holiday identity in these questions, which the representative Gitmark spoke about. It's okay, it's the Right Choice. Government parties stand in the tradition that there is identity related to the use of the earth. ‘Buandi’, who lives on and operates the property, is for us an example. Finally, it was said from the Right that one of the leading researchers in Norway on these questions was Professor Normann Anesland, my former professor at the Agricultural University. I think maybe it's dragging my dear professor a little bit, when I know pretty well why he got so deeply involved in these questions. It was more personal than the professorship that formed the basis for the ballast that has followed the professor since the 1974 law on housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 645]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e776	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e785	The law on the turnover of agricultural products — or the law on turnover, as it is commonly called — is one of the most important laws of the agricultural industry. The reason is that agricultural products are a completely different type of goods than dead goods. It is goods that are absolutely necessary for humans and that are easily spoiled. So they require a different administration than cars and nails, to put it simply. The turnover council, which is central to the law, manages the turnover tax on agricultural products, a levy paid by farmers when selling e.g. milk and meat. And it's the Sales Council that decides the amount of the sales tax. The turnover tax paid by farmers is used as a measure for their own benefit and for the benefit of society. So there's a similarity here between those who pay, and those who get, and it reflects – which I'm going to get closer to – the composition of the Sales Council. In addition to the turnover tax, the Turnover Council manages appropriations for the State budget, appropriations for action in areas where it is difficult to collect a turnover tax, e.g.: measures relating to vegetables and honey. These are important issues for an overall agricultural industry, a total value creation. The Norwegian market system is characterized by two things. One is customs protection, and the other is market regulation. Customs protection provides a basis for a national market, and there is also a market adjustment within the national market. As mentioned above, agricultural products have a special nature that requires regulation, including: because, in the case of overproduction, agricultural products are rapidly zero-valued, while they know that too little supply is rapidly infinitely worth it. Therefore, our system, of which the Sales Act and the Turnover Council are part, is so that there is a maximum price of agricultural products for the holder through the target price system in the agricultural agreement, while there is no floor, so that the prices of overproduction can fall to almost zero. So to avoid that, we have market regulation, the law on turnover and the Council of Turnover. For information, it can be mentioned that in the European Union there is no ceiling on how high prices of agricultural products can go, while at the same time there is a floor for how far down they can go. The EU has no trading council and no such market system. It can be assessed whether it is more advantageous for consumers to have a system without a ceiling on food prices, but with a floor for them. Until now, the Norwegian system has proved to be beneficial. There has been a conflict between the law on turnover and the Council on turnover throughout the history of the law. The right-hand side of Norwegian policy has worked actively against the whole of the law on turnover and has worked actively for a different composition of the Council on turnover, from a composition where the payer, who is to have a decisive influence, is the trading point to have a decisive influence. That's the way it is today. In its first period, the Sales Council and the Sales Act were in severe weather, and it was tried for Supreme Court. Fortunately, it was also at that time a red-green alliance that ensured that the sales law ‘ended’, as it is called in North Norway. There will never be peace around the law on turnover and the Council on turnover, because there is a classic contrast of interest between the trade, represented by the right parties, and those who produce and the interests of consumers, represented by the red-green lots. What is being proposed today is a simplification of the Turnover Council, by one going from 19 members to 11 members. It's a beneficial change. I have been a member of the Sales Council for six years. It was a big forum. Now that we have fewer members, while the same groups are represented – both agriculture, the state, the private operators and the Landsorganisation – it is beneficial. This is at all a natural modernisation, but where one maintains the main principles, that the one who pays the most to the system also has the greatest influence, while thus safeguarding the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e804	I record that the representative Lundtigen is now trying to launch a big debate on the whole system around the law on sales. I won't. It was interesting to note that Lundtigen did not have a single word about what this matter is about, namely the size of the turnover board and who will be members of the Turnover Council. The Progress Party wants a complete review of the whole of the Sales Act and the role and functioning of the Sale Act. We have proposed that. Then we'll have to take that debate when the government comes to Stortinget with that review. The Party of Progress is very critical of the change that is now being proposed. It shows how close the government and the state councils have to the agricultural organisations – the peasants, the small user team and the cooperatives – when they turn the Council of Turnover into a purely cooperative council. Thus, private operators are being thrown out, and the Turnover Council will now largely consist only of enterprises linked to Norwegian agricultural cooperation. If we look at the meat side, the cooperative and the non-cooperative actors are about the same size in terms of meat processing. In order to achieve a better balance in the Council of Turnover, the Progress Party proposes in proposal No. 2 to have three representatives from organisations and enterprises linked to Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation and to have the same number of representatives from the non-cooperative industry. It is also important that consumer interests are heard in the important decisions taken by the Turnover Council. We therefore propose two representatives from the consumer organisations and two representatives from the trade. I refer to the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e817	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e820	Just a short post from the Right about what this matter is actually about. As the setting indicates, the Right supports a reduction in the number of members of the Turnover Council. It is obvious that a Council of 19 members is ineffective, and the Right is in favour of the modernisation of the Council. But the Right believes, unlike the Government Parties, that it is important that there is a balance in the composition of the Sales Council. The government has proposed a very unbalanced approach, with seven of the eleven members from agriculture. Consumer considerations are relatively absent. It may not be surprising that the Center Party is in favour of such a windshield scheme, but I might have thought that the other government parties would bring this down to a more moderate level. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left propose different variants of a more balanced configuration for the composition of the Board. The right-hand approach continues to involve a significant representation from the industry and from the cooperatives: one representative from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, one from the Norwegian Bondelag, one from Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers, one from Tine, one from Nortura and one from Norske Felleskopf. Thus there are six representatives from agriculture, the cooperative industry and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In addition, the Right will have five additional members: one from the Competition Authority, one from the private meat industry, one from the non-cooperative food industry, one from the Norwegian Fruit and Vegetable Wholesalers Federation and Norkorn and one from HSH and Coop. With the right approach, the Government will stand on the verge of between agricultural organisations, private operators and competition authorities. I also think that such a balanced arrangement should be able to look at the red-green parts. I would like to include this in the right-hand motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e835	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e838	In the event of an incubation, one representative has fallen into motion No. Four, from the left. It is the representative of the Norwegian Federation of Industrial Workers' Associations. I ask that this be corrected, so that there will be eleven representatives. The Left agrees with the Government that the number of members of the Board of Commerce of Agricultural Products is reduced from 19 to 11 members. The left also largely agrees with the Government in the composition of the Council, but with one important exception. We are critical that agricultural organisations have a majority. We will therefore replace one of the representatives of the agricultural organisations with an independent representative to be appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. We believe that such a composition will serve general social interests in a good way. To this end, the Left supports proposals for the Turnover Council to be composed of the following members: Joint Representative for the Norwegian Bond Team and Norwegian Bond and Small Farm Teams, Tine BA, Nortura BA, Norwegian Joint Purchases, Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation as Joint Representative for the potato, green and fur sector, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Innovation and Administration, Norwegian Food and Drug Workers Association, Joint Representative for the Non-Cooperative Food Industry, Joint Representative for Trade and an independent representative appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I'll bring this up to the left's suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e849	The representative Alvhild Hedstein has taken up the proposal she referred to. The representative has also corrected an error in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e852	The Sales Council has the primary responsibility for the market regulation of Norwegian agricultural products. This responsibility includes all of our main agricultural products. The Act empowers the Council to collect the turnover tax and to manage the means of charging for balancing the various commodity markets. The Council has played an important role in Norwegian agricultural policy over the years. With the proposal submitted, the Government wants to indicate that we will retain the Council of Turnover as a tool for market regulation in the future. However, in order to achieve this objective, simplification and modernisation of the form of organisation are necessary. This will ensure the Council as a vital and decisive body — thus making it suitable for the performance of its societal tasks in the coming period. The organisational structure of the Board of Commerce has its legal basis all the way back to the 1930s. Since its establishment, the Council has gradually increased from its original six members to a total of 19 members today. The Council is too large today to be able to carry out its tasks properly. This was also pointed out by the Turnover Council itself in the hearing prior to the last enlargement of the Council in 2001. First, the Government proposes to reduce the turnover of the Council from 19 to 11 members. With fewer members, the Council's work will become more effective and more flexibility will be achieved. Fewer members will also be able to increase the size of the Turnover Council as a venue for important discussions related to the implementation of market regulation, as intended at all times. Since the establishment of the Council, the professional and economic organisations of agriculture have had a majority in the Council. Norwegian agricultural policy is based on the holding of this majority by the agricultural organisations. Agriculture itself has financial responsibility for overproduction and it is therefore essential that the professional and economic organisations of agriculture continue to have a significant influence on current market regulation measures. I recall that this principle was also laid down when the Stortinget last decided to extend the Council, in 2001, on a proposal from the Bondevik II Government. In this area, agricultural policy has changed little since then. The bill states that the majority of agriculture remains scarcely feasible – with one representative’s balance. As regards the organisations that should be represented in the Council, it is essential that the Council be broadly composed, with representatives from the whole food value chain. Thus, the composition of the Council will reflect the different interests set out by the Council. However, in order to achieve the objective of fewer representatives, some interests must accept to be indirectly represented by a Joint Representative. I am aware that some of the organisations are skeptical of such an indirect representation. In some cases, it may be difficult to promote their case through a joint representative. At the same time, I believe that this consideration must give rise to the need to reduce the size of the Council. I am convinced that the proposal for the selection of representatives ensures that all the interests of the Council are sufficiently represented – either directly or indirectly. However, a purely reduction in the number of members is not enough to meet the need for simplification and modernisation of the Council's work. The Government is therefore proposing a number of organisational changes to make work forms more flexible and to improve the ability of the Council to fulfil its tasks. The legislative requirement to have a committee is proposed. I believe that it must be up to the Council to decide for itself how it wants to organise itself in order to achieve a good form of work. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Council be empowered to delegate matters of a non-princes nature to its secretariat. In this way, the Council may release resources to address key market regulation issues. It is also proposed to repeal the system of a separate supervisory committee. This sample has played its part, as control tasks are currently largely carried out by other public bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e867	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e871	It is quite amazing to hear the Council of State standing here in Stortinget and claiming that this contributes to a broad composition of the Council of Turnover. Indeed, anyone who can read sees that this is a link between the Centre Party and Norwegian agricultural cooperatives, where some operators who are market regulators but also operate in competition with others are given preference over other actors. I am very sorry that this is happening. We have seen in the past that the Board of Commerce has been biased in relation to the decisions that have taken place. Three years ago, when there was a surplus of pork, extra charges were imposed on so-called heavy pig [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e878	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e881	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr disagrees with the fact that we have a trading council and a trading law. That is also the basis for the criticism he is now promoting in this line, and for the criticism he raised in his post. The starting point here is that under the provisions of the agricultural agreement, agriculture itself bears the financial responsibility for overproduction of agricultural products, and the various regulatory measures which the Council can implement to balance the various commodity markets are largely financed by the turnover tax levied on producers. That is why, in my view, it is of great importance that the professional and economic organisations of agriculture have a significant influence on current market regulation activities, and they will therefore continue to maintain in the future the majority of the Council they have had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e888	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 658]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e898	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e905	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1907	Chapter 1 § 2 b, Chapter 2 § 10 second paragraph, Chapter 3 § 12 fourth paragraph, Chapter 4 § 13 fourth paragraph, Section 17, § 18 second paragraph and Section 20 second paragraph, Chapter 6 § 30, Chapter 7 § 40 third paragraph, Chapter 8 § 43 fourth paragraph and Chapter 10 § 58. The Progress Party has announced that they will vote against these referenced chapters and paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1920	Alternatively, the second paragraph of Section 9 of Chapter 2 of the adjustment and the proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 9 is replaced by the following: Interventions of importance may not be carried out without the consent of the landowner and the user for the purpose of the land.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1936	Alternatively, the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 2 of Section 10 of Chapter 2 shall be replaced by the second sentence of proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 10 is replaced by the following: Notifications shall be made in writing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1952	The remainder of chapters 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 10, and chapters 5, 9, 11, 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1961	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1970	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e1977	13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 6-9, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 10-12, by Mr Ingreig S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 13, from Alvhild Hedstein on behalf of Left Proposal No. 5, from the Right and the Left, says: ‘The government is asked to design a national legislation that provides municipalities with a high degree of flexibility to set their own living limits.’ Proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for specific measures and a compensation scheme for men born before 1965 who are victims of the repeal of Section 78 of the Law on Noble and Liability.’ Proposal No. 13, from the left, says: ‘The government is asked to design a national legislation that provides municipalities with a high degree of flexibility to set their own living limits.’ These proposals will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Law 12 May 1995 No in the case of soil, 23 shall be deleted.’;» [[Earth floor]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Law 28 November 2003 nr. 98 on the concession by acquisition of immovable property shall be repealed.’;» [[Concession Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e2034	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘In Law No. 28 June 1974 No. 58 on the right of appeal and the right of establishment are subject to the following changes: the first paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: A property is considered as arable land when full-grown or surface-grown land on the property is at least 25 beds, or the productive forest land on the property is at least 500 beds. Paragraph 29 is replaced by the following: In the event of transfer of property, the municipality shall notify the other shareholders. Where it is difficult to give individual notice, notice in Norwegian Lysingsblad and a newspaper generally read on site are sufficient.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 November 2003 98 on the concession for the acquisition of immovable property is amended as follows: [[Concession Act]] Paragraph 4, first paragraph, point (b) 4 is replaced by the following: 4. built-up property, not more than 100 dekars, where full-scale and surface-grown land is less than 25 dekars. Paragraph 5, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: In the case of the acquisition of built-up property where full-scale and surface-grown land is not less than 25 decaves, or the property consists of at least 500 decaves of productive forest, the freedom of concession referred to in point 1 shall be that of the first subparagraph. 1 and 2 on condition that the transferee settles on the property within one year and is himself resident for at least five years. In the case of a loose end, the transferee must occupy the property for at least 10 years. This is a built-up property that is or has been used as an all-year dwelling. The same applies to residential property which has not been used as an all-year dwelling, including residential property under construction if housing permits have been granted for residential purposes. If surviving spouses acquire property from their deceased spouse as owner or in the event of a change, the residence shall have been completed before the takeover is counted against the term of the obligation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e2077	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 to 9, from the right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘In Law No. 28 June 1974 No. 58 on the right of appeal and the right of appeal shall be amended as follows: The current section 27 is deleted. The current paragraph 27(a) becomes paragraph 27 and is replaced by the following: § 27 Postponement of proceedings for waiver of nobility or public change in the case of an application for exemption from the obligation to provide services When, in the case of a nullity or public replacement, an application for exemption from the obligation to provide services is made, the court shall stay the final decision in the case until the issue of exemption is settled. Paragraph 28 is replaced by the following: § 28 Odel resolution and recovery in the event of a breach of an operating obligation If a non-proprietary person does not fulfil any of the obligations under the Law on Soil § 8, other non-proprietary persons may, within five years of the acquisition, seek the property of no part, without prejudice to the right of the owner. If the owner has been given the ownership by no partial solution, the defendant may also seek the ownership back in the case of termination when the conditions of duty are not fulfilled. The same shall apply if the owner, before the time limit after the first paragraph has expired, disposes of the property of any person who does not have the right to vote. As a disposal, leasing or other similar total right of use is also considered. Requesting a search back after this paragraph is left for the right of resolution of the nobility right after the first paragraph. When the odel solution or backtrace has been completed, the odelrights of the previous owner will be lost. If the odel solution or backtrace is completed by someone who does not belong to the previous owner's line, the odelversion will fall away for this line as well. Paragraph 39 is replaced by the following: § 39 Obligation to provide services to live persons In order for the occupants to be protected as referred to in Sections 34 to 36, he must be delayed from one year after becoming owner, reside on his property and use him as his real dwelling, and operate his property in accordance with the laws of the land, § 8. The administrative authority which may grant a concession under the Concession Act may grant a derogation from the obligation under the first sentence. The governing authority which may grant exemption from compulsory employment under the laws of law § 8(a) may grant exemption from the obligation of professional activity. The right of use shall lapse if the person remaining permanently moves from his property or if the property is not defended. Paragraph 40 is replaced by the following: § 40 Deadline for the exercise of the right to vote The right to nobility must be exercised within six months of the date on which a document that gives the new owner the full title becomes a matter of object. This also applies to inheritance transitions. At the coercion hall, the limitation period is calculated from the costing of coercive ice skates. The rules of the first paragraph do not, however, apply where an owner of a share ownership does not, in the first five years after taking over, fulfil the obligations under the laws of the land § 8. Other non-proprietary owners who had the right to privacy when the owner had the right to property may, in such a case, be required to dissolve the property, if the claim is made within five years of the takeover. Paragraph 51, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: Rules on compulsory employment in the laws of the land § 8 first paragraph liability corresponding to the taking over of land by the heir of a heir.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 June 1992 86 for enforcement is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Sections 11-13 is deleted. The third paragraph becomes the second paragraph.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 28 November 2003 98 on the concession by acquisition of real estate, etc. [[Concession Act]] It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 5, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The first subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to cohabitants in matrimonial relationships. As consensual residents according to the provision here, consensual residents who fulfil the conditions of Section 28(a) of the Inheritance Act are considered. Paragraph 5, third paragraph, is deleted. Paragraph 6 is deleted. Paragraph 9, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: In deciding on the application for a concession for the acquisition of property to be used for agricultural purposes, particular attention shall be paid to: 1. whether the purpose of the transferee will be to take account of the location in the area; 2. if the acquisition involves an operationally sound solution; 3. if the transferee is considered fit to operate the property; 4. if the acquisition takes into account the overall management of resources and the cultural landscape. Paragraph 13, third paragraph, is replaced by the following: The king may set a time limit for the transferee to apply for a concession if: 1. the time limit for compulsory use under the second paragraph of Section 3 is exceeded. 2. the transferee fails to build within 5 years in breach of the second paragraph of Section 4. 3. the transferee makes a change in use in contravention of the plan pursuant to the third or fourth subparagraphs of Section 4. 4. acquires as referred to in Section 5, first paragraph, point (b) of the first paragraph; 5 does not comply with the deadline for resale. 5. the requirement to settle under the third paragraph of Section 7 cf. Paragraph 6 is not complied with.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Decision IX is replaced by the following: The law applies from the time the King rules. The king may decide that the individual provisions shall apply from different times. At the time of entry into force of the Act, the following transitional provisions shall apply: 1st@item: inlistbox The amendments to the Law of Goods § 1, 2, 8, 12, 21, 40 to 48 and 78 do not have an effect on circumstances in which, under previous rules, the right to use the title or the right of residence has been exercised before the change in law applies. 2nd@item: inlistbox The amendments to the Odelgesetz §§ 6, 63, 69 and 70 only apply where a case has been raised after the entry into force. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the case of co-farming under Section 15 of the third paragraph of the last sentence and the fourth paragraph, the period of co-farming shall also extend from before the date of entry into force. 4th@item: inlistbox The amendments to the Odelgesetz §§ 20 to 20 c apply only to offers made after their entry into force. 5th@item: inlistbox The amendment to Paragraph 25 of the Law of Goods does not mean that withdrawals from the period prior to entry into force will be ineffective. 6th@item: inlistbox The amendments to the odelgesetz §§ 34 to 39 do not apply where an odelsrighted owner is dead before entry into force. 7th@item: inlistbox The rules on cancellation of rentals in Paragraph 50 of the Law apply after the entry into force even if the right to vote could have been invoked or has been enforced before the law enters into force. Eight. If the obligation to operate under the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Concession Act in force or under Section 27 of the Odel Act has been breached before the law enters into force, the breach may be followed up under the new rules of the Land Act. 9th@item: inlistbox Where an application for a concession, compulsory activity or partial exemption is not finally decided upon at the time of entry into force of the law, the management of the application shall comply with the new provisions even if the application has been submitted before the law enters into force. The same applies to the notification sent to the municipality under the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Concession Act. The application shall be deemed final if the appeal has not been received within the time limit for appeal or if the administration has taken a decision in the appeal proceedings. 10th@item: inlistbox An owner who owns agricultural land at the date of entry into force of the Act has an obligation to operate in line with Section 8 of the Soil Act. 11th@item: inlistbox If the acquisition that triggered a dwelling obligation takes place before its entry into force, but an application has been made for an exemption from a dwelling, or the dwelling is being fulfilled or defaulted at the date of its entry into force, the obligation lapses.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e2241	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 12 May 1995 No. 23 on soil are amended as follows: [[Earth floor]] Paragraph 12 is replaced by the following: § 12 Sharing Property that is useful or can be used for agriculture, forestry or horticulture may be shared, or rights of use may be established as part of the ownership. However, division requires the consent of the municipality if the division is effected by the second or fifth subparagraphs or by the regulation under Section 13. Cultivated land that is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture cannot be shared or dislocated without the consent of the municipality. Obligation to seek division under the second sentence of the first subparagraph shall also apply to a lease and similar lease or right of use of part of the cultivated land when the right is constituted for a period longer than 10 years, or cannot be surrendered by the owner: [[Leasers]] 1. consent has been given to re-disposal pursuant to Law § 9, and this consent is not obsolete, cf. § 9, fourth paragraph, or 2. The purpose of the division or division is to transfer the land as additional land to other property that is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture. It is a condition that a written contract has been created in which the ownership of the land is to be added and that the land is to be used for such purposes. Consent to division by other links can only be permitted when social interests of great importance speak for it. Buildings situated in or near to tuna may not be disbursed from property which is useful or can be used for agriculture or horticulture without the consent of the municipality. Dissemination of buildings located in or near the tuna zone may be permitted where the dissociation will not cause damage to the cultural landscape, to tangible operational disadvantages of major importance, or where social interests of high importance speak for sharing. Decisions taken by the municipality under the second and fifth subparagraphs may be appealed to the County Agriculture Board unless the department has established another appeal body. Paragraph 13 is added as follows: § 13 Local rules for sharing Upon application by the municipality, the ministry may introduce a regulation whereby property which is or may be used for agriculture, horticulture or forestry cannot be shared without the consent of the municipality. Such a regulation can be introduced when the municipality of my prescription is desirable based on the consideration of operationally good solutions or the concerns of the cultural landscape. When applying for a division by local rule, the municipality can by decision only focus on the care underlying the implementation of the rules. The following Section 14 is added: § 14 Property consisting of several registers The application obligations under Sections 12 and 13 also apply to property which consists of several registers if the records are owned by the same owner. Paragraph 15 is added as follows: § 15 Forced auctioning and land change The restrictions in Sections 12 and 13 do not apply when part of the property is sold at a coercion hall. The same applies if the sharing of ownership is necessary in connection with public land change. Paragraph 16 is added as follows: § 16 Conditions Consent for the division under Sections 12 and 13 may be given under such conditions as are necessary for the purposes for which the claims are to be made. Paragraph 17 is added as follows: § 17 Loss of a consensus If division is not requested within three years of consent to division, consent shall be lost. II The amendments shall apply immediately.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e2326	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Law of 28 June 1974 No. 58 on the right to vote and to sit on the register is amended as follows: Section 8 is replaced by the following: Paragraphs 13 and 14 are deleted. Paragraph 27 is deleted. Paragraph 27a is deleted. Paragraph 28 is deleted. Paragraph 30 is deleted. Paragraph 31 is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e3947	It is contested about the Committee's suspension to § 1 up to and including § 50 and § 58 up to and including § 79. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e3960	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee pursuant to Sections 51 to 57. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e3973	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of Section VI, paragraph 3, fourth sentence. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e3986	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the remainder of VI and IX. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e3999	The Committee shall be called upon to vote on the appointment of Section VII, paragraph 4, first paragraph, point (c) of the first paragraph. 4 to § 5, third paragraph. The party of progress has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4012	It is added to Section VII (7) and Section 13, third paragraph, No. Four and five. The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4025	It's going to be over the rest of VII. The Progress Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4039	It shall be counted against II, III, IV, V and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4048	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4061	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4068	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party – proposal No. 3, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right – proposal No. 4, from Alvhild Hedstein on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a full review of the role, function and objectives of the law on turnover and to promote a case-by-case approach to this effect for the Storting.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will first vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2, first and second subparagraphs, shall be replaced by the following: In order to advance the target according to Section 1, there shall be a trading council with 11 members. The Ministry appoints members with personal alternates for each of the following: Joint Representative of the Norwegian Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and Small Farmers Teams, Tine BA, Nortura BA, Norwegian Joint Purchases, Norwegian Agricultural Cooperation as Joint Representative for the potato, green and fur sector, Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Ministry of Innovation and Administration, Joint Representative for the non-cooperative food industry, Joint Representative for Trade and an Independent Representative appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4105	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 2, first and second subparagraphs, shall be replaced by the following: In order to advance the target under Section 1, there shall be a trading council of 11 members. The Ministry appoints members with personal alternates for each of the following: the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Norwegian Bondelag, the Norwegian Farmers' Association, Tine BA, Nortura BA, the Norwegian Joint Purchases, the Competition Authority, the Joint Representative for the private meat industry, the Joint Representative for the non-cooperative food industry, the Joint Representative for the Norwegian Fruit and Vegetable Wholesalers' Association and the Norwegian Association and the Joint Representative for the Main Organisation of Trade and Services and the Coop NKL BA.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4123	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 2 is replaced by the following: The Ministry appoints members with personal alternates for each of the following: 3 representatives from organisations and enterprises linked to Norwegian agricultural cooperatives 3 representatives from enterprises linked to non-cooperative industries 2 representatives from consumer organisations 2 representatives from the trade 1 representatives of those added to the enterprises The Ministry of Renewal and Administration and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food act as secretarial.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4285	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that 62 votes were cast for the Committee's vote and 17 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 16.03.28]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4294	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4299	The representative of Chaudry will probably vote for the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4302	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4307	The position of the Committee was then approved by 63 votes to 16. It is now to be voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4318	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04-lower.ana.ud104e4331	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
