ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e22	From the Workers' Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative Karita Bekkemelm from 18 March onwards and until further notice. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and be accepted – and sees it as agreed. From the first alternate of the Møre and Romsdal counties, Svein Gülseth, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinget from 18 March to 25 March, under the permission of the representative Karita Bekkemelm, for reasons of well-being. The President suggests that this application be dealt with immediately and that it be accepted – and sees it as agreed. It is suggested that the alternate representatives Svein Gelseth and Else-May Botten meet during the leave period – it is agreed. Else-May Botten is present and wants to take a seat. The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e51	On behalf of Hans Olav Syversen, Ingreigt S. Sørfonn and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a master plan for the reduction of national greenhouse gas emissions and the follow-up to the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e56	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e59	It is a pleasure to present a Document No. Eight proposals from the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Ola T. Lånke, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself for a strengthened and more equivalent cultural school offering across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e64	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e67	On behalf of the representatives Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Bent Höie and myself, I propose to strengthen the consumer rights of Norwegian housing buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e72	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e93	The announcement received on Monday from the Prime Minister's office about the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Prime Minister Lars Peder Breck The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to those who have notified them in advance, wish to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e112	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In the last 20 years, Norwegian drivers have paid SEK 57 billion in tolls. From 1990 under the government of Brundtland to 2009 with the government of Stoltenberg II, toll collection and payment by industry and individuals have increased and increased. While Norway has become richer, drivers have been forced to pay more and more of the road development in Norway. Under the government of Stoltenberg II, the head of the Central Party directs the Ministry of Transport, the Central Party, which says that ‘road development is a public task’ and which is ‘sceptical of a trend towards more and more toll projects’. Under the management of the Centre Party, payment of tolls from the drivers has increased by 30 pst. in relation to the previous government. During the period 2006-2009, the drivers paid DKK 19 billion in tolls. With the Central Party in government, the Road Act has been amended so that tolls from the driving lists are now also used for the operation of public transport. On Friday 13 March, the Government’s proposal for a new national transport plan came. There is a plan for continued looting of the drivers – more than ever to be forced to buy them off. Over the next ten years, the government is adding up the car drivers to pay NOK 60 billion for road development and NOK 15 billion in payment supplements, i.e. NOK 75 billion. This is in addition to the €60 billion – well – that drivers have to pay every year in car-related taxes and taxes. Why does the Government continue and strengthen the looting of the drivers? Why will this government not ensure that the state pays the entire bill for the necessary road development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e123	The government has presented an ambitious national transport plan, a transport plan that will modernise large parts of the Norwegian road and rail network and that will ensure both safe and efficient road, rail and air traffic management. In this national transport plan, there are also tolls, and it is planned to take out – as stated in the plan – the ‘toll potential’. We do so in good tradition and in some cases that there is a majority in the Stortinget that supports the line that we should have a shared commitment to society – we bet from the state, it's local initiatives, and we follow them up. In connection with the submission of the national transport plan, I have to learn that I was in the municipality of Os yesterday. Yesterday the vaia was probably not flagged on top – but in local terms there was a photo of the City Hall of the Progress Party’s spokesmen, with three Norwegian flags as vaia because one had received one of the major toll projects, Os–Bergen, on the E39. So when it applies to the Progress Party and tolls, we see that the party there speaks with several tongues as in some other things. It was a joy in Us when the National Transport Plan came. The previous government that put forward its transport plan, also had tolls in it, and the growth that is under my control of the Ministry of Transport, is a follow-up to very many of the projects that the previous government, supported by the Progress Party, provided. I am very happy that we have seen as many projects as we have done. This means that there will be a better road in this country, and that is something that everyone on the road has been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e134	This is a government that cultivates political extortion as an instrument of social policy. Municipalities and counties get a clear message: Without a bomb – no way! That is why many people actually had good reason to lift the flag on half a pole on Friday 13th, when this comprehensive toll looting plan was presented. It is the Government and, finally, the Storting that decides on the financing of the state's roads. It is the Government and, finally, the Storting that governs the financing of road development, and that also manages the oil wealth of its inhabitants. It is in this section that decisions are taken. There is the Progress Party the only party that proposes government funding instead of tolls. Very many people see it as unfair, unfair and unnecessary that road construction is not financed as a railway development in Norway, that is, entirely by the State. Why won't the government use the oil wealth return? Why does the Government want to borrow to other countries building roads rather than to finance Norwegian road development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e143	The Progress Party is the only party that proposes more money for everything. If it had been the Progress Party that had run and had multiples in the last 15 to 20 years, we would probably not have had any oil fund today, because it would not have been seen of funds that would allow us today to take action within the economic policy to put in place additional measures when unemployment now strikes over the whole country, to increase the national transport plan by DKK 100 billion in the next decade, to be able to put in place measures in very many other areas that are important for us to develop well-being, create jobs and make Norway an even better country to live in. That is why we are also willing to use the split-layer model that a local very large number of places think is likely to be able to get projects out, to get even more speed on Norwegian trade than we would otherwise have. I don't see it as my job to reduce and slow down the rate of development that we see now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e148	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e151	The new national transport plan has been sold very well to the media by representatives of the position, and among the things that have been sold most hard in are the billions to come up with new projects in the last six years. These projects are not mentioned in the national transport plan with proposals for funding, but they are mentioned. What is the repeater of these project reviews is the following formulation: ‘The prioritisation shall be conditional on the conclusion of a partial toll financing scheme.’;» In the past, it has been the case that Stortinget has received applications from counties and municipalities to prioritize projects with toll systems – which are then initiated locally. Here, it seems as if the Government is resorting to a new practice, namely that the Government is making the assumption that there will be toll financing. Then the project can get started. Is this a new way of pushing tolls on all road projects in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e162	First of all, there are no tolls on every road project in Norway. Contrary to nearly five years ago, when Right was involved in providing Najonal transport, there is a strong growth in the state resources both for road and rail. 100 billion kroner is something other than reducing the volume, as one did the last time, when NTB's press release started with the toll coming up, the railways going down and the Minister for Transport was happy. It was the essence of NTB’s press release according to the previous national transport plan. We see that there are some other messages now. There will be no new toll practices. There is a local one who will adopt and initiate them, and then they will come to the Storting in their turn. So there is no new practice in deciding whether toll projects are to be decided centrally, even if I record that the City Council in Bergen could think of such a practice. There they think I should call them and tell them that they should make toll decisions. I'm not going to do that. The City Council of Bergen may take the initiative itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e169	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e172	With 60 billion new tolls, we will probably express a concern from the Christian People's Party that we may be approaching a limit on how many chemical offices we can set up along the roads, but that's what we'll get back to in new rounds. My question concerns the distribution of state resources between the first and second part of the period – I stress: state resources. Here, in my opinion, it's a strong bias. The weight of government funds will come from 2014 to 2019 – and it may seem that the Minister for Transport expects a new government to be responsible. Because we have to deal significantly with the budgets in relation to what has now been introduced as NTP averages, in order to be able to meet the state funds in the second part of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e179	Yes, it's added to an additional escalation. It has also been said that, as in the past, the national transport plan can of course be over-achieved for a few years, and it can be less other years — depending on the economic situation. We've also shown that in the period that we're now in. We had a sub-fulfill in the beginning, and then we've had a overfill in the last year. This means that, overall, we have over-filled the national transport plan, but not in the individual years. We now have a step-by-step phase-in -- we've phased in as much as $10 billion. I would like to ask the representative to think five years back in time – which was also a good time with commercial investment – when they presented their own national transport plan. We didn't find any such numbers. Then there was no need to escalate, because when there is no growth inside, of course there is no need to escalate anything. We've added up to a solid escalation. And we intend to stay seated. We intend to implement the national transport plan in the first four-year period, and we intend to submit a new one in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e188	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e191	Tolls have contributed to the fact that important projects have seen the light of day. Now we've got Oslopackak 3 steps 2 for the committee. What is the job now is to get it as soon as possible. But my concern is very much linked to the fact that there are bound projects – it has appeared in the media lately – among others. The Wolf-Sinsen, which can eat up much of the necessary collective effort in the area. It becomes important in the future with transparency and transparency in such complex projects, bombing projects, such as Oslopackak 3. Here, there's a lot of money coming in, and it's important that those who pay, see what that money is spent on, otherwise the willingness to pay will disappear pretty quickly. Can the Council of State promise openness and transparency around Oslopackak 3 and other projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e198	Oslopacket 3 is a very important project. It's a big project, the biggest project I've ever worked on – hardly any other government council in the Ministry of Transport has worked on any major project. It's also important because there are so many people here. We are so dependent on the fact that we are closed down by making several of them travel collectively – I know the representative Tenden and I am a few about – and that the growth that comes in this area is also going to happen collectively. At the same time, important road projects need to be implemented, and Ulven-Sinsen is one of them. It was last night's meeting in the steering group. I follow very closely the work that is being done, and we have had frequent meetings in the ministry. In terms of transparency, this is generally the case, and the State Road Service has had a process against toll companies in order to obtain the necessary transparency. There is now a system of transparency of toll companies' accounts, and it is important for the elderly and for the legitimacy that we have closed it. There is a process that has lasted for several years, but everyone now realizes that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e205	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e208	I record that the Council of State says that she sees no reason to stop the increase in the number of toll stations. At least it must be contrary to the Central Party's party program. The council also says that the Progress Party has money for everything. At least it is clear that the Council of State has not read the Progress Party's alternative proposals for the State budget, where we are making priorities. Then I record that the Council of State is very pleased with the state highway robbery that this government is doing. I'm about to start wondering if there are any limits to the government's reputation when it comes to taking credit for something that is actually the drivers who pay the entire bill for. The newspaper OccupationsBil has now found out that foreign drivers actually do not pay to run through Norwegian toll stations. So they're going to drop a $60 million bill. kr, which leads to a large discrimination between Norwegian and foreign truck drivers, in view of competitive conditions. Is the Council satisfied that this contributes to discrimination between Norwegian and foreign carriers, and what will the Council of State do now to ensure that foreign carriers are also allowed to pay the Government's joy over the toll stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e215	The President would point out that ‘land-road robbery’ is probably not a parliamentary expression, and asks the representative to note it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e218	I took some pictures in the head of the state councils like highway robbers. There was no nice sight! I definitely don't feel like an ass, and I don't think the rest of the government does when we add 100 billion extra kroner to the road and rail in the period ahead. I have read a little in NTB messages and newspapers from when the previous National Transport Plan was produced, by a government that supports the Progress Party and that did not allow, did not allow, growth, but I cannot remember such a use of words. But let's just leave it, it's a passe, now we're going to see the future. We think that we have reason to be optimistic about the future when it comes to social affairs and the plan we have put forward, and it flows in with very positive messages from the rest of the country, so the Progress Party is something for itself there. When it comes to foreign vehicle trains, we don't have systems today that allow us to have them included in the toll system. There's something that needs to be included when we're now developing the system we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e226	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e229	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I myself am delighted to chair the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is today the largest and oldest political organisation on the European continent. The Court of Justice is an important part of this construction work. After all, the Government has itself characterised the European Court of Human Rights as ‘a supporter of the Council of Europe’s human rights system’. Norway has also been a driving force for countries to comply with and follow-up to judgments in common. Therefore, it is with some wonder that I record that the Government does not choose to follow the decision of the Court of Justice in relation to a specific judgment against Norway regarding compliance with the freedom of expression in relation to political advertising. Representatives of the Government provide legal interpretations contrary to a unisoning legal environment in Norway, including previous judges of the Gro Hillestad Thune Court, which specifically states that the decision of the Court is not special but general, and must be followed up by amendment of Norwegian law. It is the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is responsible for following up our Treaty obligations to the Court, and that is why I am asking the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question: What consequences does he see for Norway's credibility that we do not follow up a decision in this way in the Strasbourg Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e236	First, I would like to say that it is right, as the representative Foss says, that the Council of Europe is an important institution, and perhaps the Court of Justice is an even more important part of the Council of Europe. It's a court and an instance of human rights that we have to turn around, and where one of the major problems is the ability to get away from cases. I heard today early in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there are more than 100 000 cases waiting for treatment. It says something about this system's overload. Now it is the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for the Treaty obligations of Norway. I'm standing by. This matter is strictly with one of my colleagues. But I cannot agree with the description given by the representative Foss that Norway is breaking treaty obligations here. The government has assessed the judgment that came, which dealt with one factual complaint, and as a result of that judgment we make changes to Norwegian legislation. It is the obligation of the State to ensure that the legislation complies with our obligations under international law. They are clarified by such a judgment. The changes that have been made, we mean to align ourselves with that. That then there are lawyers and other scholars who had to think that we are not there, is not uncommon in such matters. And then you might see if that matter comes up for a new treatment. I believe that Norway stands out very well in a reputation as a country that both implements international law obligations in Norwegian law, respects and follows them up – as in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e245	But, Minister of Foreign Affairs, no changes have been made in Norway on this point. No amendments to the Broadcasting Act have been implemented. As regards the notified changes to the editorial poster, or to the broadcaster’s poster, it is underlined that they are in line with current practice, so no practical changes have been made at this point. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is defaming the verdict. It is typical of every country that is judged. There are 6,000 judges who have not been followed up by a number of countries. Norway has been an impulsor to criticise countries that devalue judges and avoid following them up. That is why I am surprised at the approach of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on a principle basis to this matter. I would like to ask, since he also says that there are random or some lawyers who had to think otherwise: What lawyers is the Minister for Foreign Affairs claiming that the follow-up to the judgment is the status quo in Norway? Is it the U.D. Department of Justice? And is that in line with the advice that the Foreign Minister has also given during the government's discussion of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e254	I am not surprised that the representative Foss is surprised. I would be surprised if he was not surprised, as the matter here is put on. But I can confirm that the Government has made its legal assessments of the obligations arising from the judgment, that we believe that the factual focus of the judgment on the complaint submitted has been managed by the changes proposed by the Minister of Culture, which then concern the NRK poster. Then we'll assess whether that case is being tested in a court system. It's part of the way the court system works. Otherwise, I think the representative Foss is so prepared for government work that he knows that I am not giving an expression here for various discussions internally in a government process until a decision that of course a whole government is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e261	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e264	I'll try to raise this -- a little bit more generally. For it seems as if fundamental issues such as blasphemy law, hi-ab use in the police and now compliance with a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights create problems for the Government. The message we get from the Government is often confusing, it is weakly thoughtful and bears the mark of either hasty or lightly conclusions. It also seems that you had to go back on some of these conclusions. The challenge for the Minister of Foreign Affairs is whether it is not demanding to be in charge of a principal Norwegian foreign policy in many of the same issues outside, when the Government on the Homeroad is anything but principleal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e271	It is very convenient to be Minister for Foreign Affairs and stand for Norway's principal views both at home and outside. The fact that difficult matters are sometimes reconsidered and transformed is part of the characteristics of a living democracy. The Prime Minister has commented on some of these issues and said that the treatment could clearly be better here. Of the hundreds of things that you treat in government, I think it is a sign of openness and self-confinence that you conclude with it from time to time. With regard to these different issues, I am very well placed on the platform that Norway has now landed on. We now have to deal with here in this house a criminal law without blasphemy, and nothing else has changed in that context. I'm very comfortable with that. This makes Norway a spearhead of legislation in relation to freedom of expression, and it is good for us in international negotiations. So I think in general – this is not the case with the Progress Party, which has an attitude to this which I am glad is not shared in this house – that the whole issue of integration, culture and religion is demanding things for our society, where we need more debate in order to deal with the necessary nuances.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e280	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e283	The left is of the opinion that as it is today, perhaps freedom of expression is one of the most threatened human rights worldwide. It's threatened in a lot of fields. I know that the Foreign Minister has also had an engagement with the UN – I was there myself – in raising the debate on freedom of speech. Then it is clear that the events of the last months for the Norwegian government, with both blasphemy paragraphs, and, perhaps most importantly, not to care about a judgment given in respect of freedom of expression in the Human Rights Court, must weaken Norwegian engagement. So my question is whether the Council of State really believes that there won't be any states that have noticed that we don't care about a judgment in the Human Rights Court in this area – such an important area of human rights where Norway has to have its back free to fight that battle for this human rights also globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e288	I have to repeat what I said, that the government's assessment of this matter is that we follow up the verdict. I have full respect for the fact that others can interpret it differently. But when we do that, it is of course because we can stand upright, we believe, in relation to what is done by changes in Norwegian legislation and legislation, and what we stand for in principle outwards. So that's the answer to that. Otherwise, I agree with the representative Skei Grande that freedom of expression is one of the most vulnerable human rights. That is why this is also an area where Norway is involved in the UN, in Europe, in various international contexts, and bilaterally in the countries where freedom of expression is violated, as part of our active human rights policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e296	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e299	I notice that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is comfortable with the Government's approach to this, but I also notice that he says that you can expect new things, or at least that you have to be prepared for a new case. This I expect has been part of the government discussion. It must have been recommended here, at least with such a syllable solution as has been made, that you must be prepared for a new case to come up. In a speech on the 60th anniversary of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that freedom of expression cannot or should not be defined. But he balances it against a number of considerations that he believes are important, and points out to land with great problems, such as Sudan and Afghanistan, and what sensitivity to them should be. Is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that Norway has to be prepared for a new case of television advertising in view of the importance of circumventing freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e306	I must say that I do not fully accept the problem. The Norwegian policy in relation to television advertising is well anchored in this room. It is our reading of the judgment that came in Strasbourg, that it addresses the one topic that was raised, and it has followed up the Minister of Culture through the changes he has made. So it's not like I'm tracking or expecting or having a clear view of whether there's an appeal of the case, but it's part of the European legal community that it's possible. So if the interpretation that Norway has applied is wrong, there is scope for taking it up. We insist that we believe that this is the right thing to do, and that we still have an approach to television advertising that has broad support in this room. And we're comfortable with that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e313	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e316	I also have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This spring there is an important debate in Norwegian society and also internationally about the place of religion in society. At the same time, as several representatives have already been involved, we have experienced that the Government has stumbled into several things about the belief of people, the place of religion in society and freedom of expression. The government's attempt to limit freedom of expression by prohibiting qualified religious criticism did not stand for the violent public debate that followed and had to be withdrawn. At the same time, we know that the Government is negotiating in Geneva with a number of Islamic countries on issues relating to whether freedom of expression should be restricted for religious reasons. The proposal to change the uniform regulations in the police turned out to be so little thought that the government had to turn around, and now the government is once again fambling on an important issue of society and religion. On the same day that the largest government party experienced a marked decline in a poll conducted by the NRK, the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, pushed towards what he defines as radical Islam in Norway. For a while it seemed as if there was a great deal of disagreement in the Labour Party about whether this was a problem or not, but today we can read in several newspapers and hear in the media that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg must have confirmed that Kolberg's declaration of war against radical Islam is the Labour Party's view. We also have to expect that this is the government's view. Several newspapers also show that Norwegian Muslims feel the bully of this play, among other things. the Secretary-General of the Islamic Council. I consider Norway's Minister of Foreign Affairs to be one of the most reflected in the Government on the issue of religion's place in society and dialogue between religions. I therefore want the Minister of Foreign Affairs to provide a clear and clear definition of what radical Islam is, what the Government believes is the problem in Norway, how to combat it, and how the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that this can create dialogue in the Norwegian big society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e327	The representative Højbräten and I share, I think, the main inspiration for the importance of dialogue – respect, the ability to live with different faiths and that in Norway we will have an inclusive community where one can live safely with one's faith. The fact that we today have many Nordics with different faiths is a challenge for our society, and that puts us all, both minorities and majority, to the test. When it comes to Martin Kolberg's play, I'd say I don't have any problems with it. Martin Kolberg has said on questions about the Workers' Party's view of extreme Islam that the Workers' Party is fighting all kinds of extremism. It would have been alarming if he had answered something else. I quote from the threat assessment from PST 2009, which begins with the first sentence with the following wording: ‘The risk of politically motivated violence by actors inspired by extreme Islamism will continue to represent a challenge for Norway in 2009.’» It's good that the PST follows. It's not a big phenomenon, but it's a phenomenon that's there and that you have to follow. So I believe that saying that Norwegian laws and regulations apply is too shallow a response to this challenge. Of course it is. It is prohibited with sexual mutilation, it is prohibited with coercion, etc. The challenge for our society lies in the violation of closed doors, where norms and religion are used to keep people down in relation to their rights and freedoms. That is why – at least it is the Labour Party's position on our gender equality mission and our liberating mission – I believe that we should continue to focus on those who do not enjoy the citizens' rights that follow in Norwegian society. It's a dialogue and a debate – and a focus – we're going to take care of it, but with determination. I think it's evidence that we may have been evasive in our society in recent years. But Kolberg's answer I believe is a natural answer to the question he got. The debate on the challenges Norway has in this area, embraces much wider, as I said, and requires a nuanced approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e345	I would like the Foreign Minister to answer my question exactly, when he now asks himself behind what Martin Kolberg has said: What is extreme Islam in a Norwegian context? The second question I want to ask is whether the Foreign Minister can reflect on how in Norway we can promote the values common to our society, the Christian and humanist heritage, in the extremely demanding situation we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e352	In one minute I would say that I interpret extreme Islam in this context as a movement that is willing to resort to violence to achieve its objectives. Therefore, it is important that the PST follow up on this if they consider it a threat. They're the professionals here. It's their responsibility. The second question is also a broad one. My overall approach there is that we need to ensure that the Community arenas of our society, which go through kindergartens, schools, education, culture – the whole breadth, where we meet and become at the meeting – are accessible to all. There's a reason why I think in the area of kindergartens we're making a mistake with a cash support that keeps kids who should be in kindergartens, out of kindergartens, that we're making a mistake when we don't have carrots, incentives, that make learning languages and participating in the community arenas, being exploited by everyone, and especially by those who need it the most, those who are from minority environments. But it's a big debate that's important to have, and I think we really share many of the basic views.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e359	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Morten Höglund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e362	I want to go mainly to the arena where the Minister of Foreign Affairs is moving most, that is, the international, but on the theme of radical Islam. On Sunday, CNN saw those who came with them, cruel pictures of a 13-year-old girl who was stoned. Radical Islamists were behind it. In Afghanistan, Norway is fighting militarily and civilly against tali-banking forces and radical Islamists to secure girls and women’s rights — among others. In Iran, we are being horrified by gross violations of human rights. Often women and girls are victims. A radical Islamist presbytery is behind it. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs share our view that the fight against these forces internationally and the defence of human rights is of the utmost importance? And isn't it naive to think that people with these kinds of attitudes are also within the borders of the country, and that this is thus a universal, global struggle?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e369	It is very easy to say yes to the fact that Norway is actively combating this type of gross violation of human rights, that we are doing it systematically on a case-by-case basis and against regimes that serve it as criminal practices in criminal law and in criminal practice. We're pretty clear on that in every context and we're going to keep on doing that. So to the Progress Party's method of lifting these kinds of things into the Norwegian debate and creating the impression that this is going on almost because we have fellow people with Muslim faith. We're taking a distance from that. It is where it is important to be precise by saying that the type of extreme attitudes is not a widespread political or cultural phenomenon in Norway. PST mentions it in a rather sober way in his report, and they are the service to follow up on it. They think they have good control over it. But from there to almost creating a cutting-edge generalization of this kind of attitude that is going to give an association to all people with Muslim faith, which is the result of the rhetoric of the Advance Party, I'm not in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e377	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e380	I think I would like to agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that most of these questions can be answered quite well. I have never heard a single Norwegian politician who has not thought that radical Islamic movements in international arenas and the acts of violence they are perpetuating in Western arenas are things to distance themselves from and fight against. It's actually a very important idea fight and an important fight on the international arena. But then I have a question, because I feel that this debate never goes into the root bit. What is it that recruits people for that kind of extremism? What is the potential for people in Norwegian society to be recruited to such extremism? We have to ask ourselves those questions, because we see that, among other things. seem to be normally integrated English people who have been recruited to, for example: acts of violence. Then I think that instead of discussing radical Islam, we should perhaps jointly use the forces to discuss how we should get a better connection for everyone who lives in our country, to our ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e387	To make it easy, I fully agree with the representative of Solberg. That's where we need to put the cancers, that's where we need to have the debate. But that doesn't mean we don't also remember having a readiness and knowledge of the extreme. A party trap by the representative Solberg, Finn Martin Vallersnes, raised a very important interpellation debate here a few months ago about what has nourished under this kind of attitudes that we perceive as anti-Western, anti-idea that is important to us, and which we also believe are universal values. There we had a debate — with self-confidence — that many of the Western actions have taken place, much of the environment that is being recruited there. The representative Solberg and I were together in the Middle East a few weeks ago and saw and experienced attitudes that prevail among young people who experience occupation and oppression. It's part of a wide picture. But the answer is that we should continue to work for the values that are universal, that are inclusive, that give the individual rights to speech, freedom of religion and civil and personal rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e394	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e397	Internationally, it is important to combat religious expressions that lead to terrorism and violations of human rights. Norway also participates. But the threats we face in Norway are quite different. What the Council of State has framed as things we have to fight in Norway, such as forced marriage and sexual mutilation, is much more linked to culture than to religion. I think you give people too good arguments by connecting it with religion. That's why it's really important that we go with knowledge into this debate, and that we be able to distinguish what is true, what is a violation of human rights and what are Norwegian laws and regulations, which we expect to be enforced. So my question: why doesn't the government choose to go along with the Jagland line rather than get on Martin Kolberg's line, which sucks up all of religion and culture and says that this is one thing we have to fight against as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e404	Firstly, I agree that there is a need to have cleanliness in these terms. I have actually written and talked about this for many years: the importance of recognizing that our greatest challenge as a society is to deal with this and create the cleanliness of what we call the Norwegian 'we' that makes us all feel included. We're good at equality in Norway, but we're bad at managing differences. It's a big challenge for us. But I believe again that what Martin Kolberg answers to the question of the view of extreme Islam is that the Workers' Party is and has always been against extreme movements. That also applies now, and we're going to keep track of that. It's not a seamstress. That's what they say. But I feel here that with regard to the questions we have had today, there is a great platform of consensus in the approach. I think we need to get up and get ready to discuss it with a little bit of nuance, but also with consistency. And it's not that we can separate all of these questions about religion and culture. They also intervene in a number of contexts, where religion – and we have experience from our own country – is also used as a cultural tool to deprive people of freedoms.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e411	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e414	In these days it is a little difficult to get wise on the Labour Party's policy. Yesterday, in the daily newspaper, aristocracy representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, from the Workers' Party, called for cuts in aid to countries that do not want to take asylum seekers back. In this case, it will be a whole new line of aid policy that does not justify assistance with fundamental human rights, but that it is simply used as a means of pressuring internationally, some kind of punishment and reward, and affects people in need. Is this a new line of government policy? I hope not, but if it is, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it is right to punish people in need – beneficiaries of assistance – and use them as a political instrument in the asylum debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e421	First of all, I believe in principle that assistance is not automatic, we consider assistance politically when we give. Now that we're suspending aid to Madagascar after a military coup, we're holding back payments, it's a political decision. But I don't agree with that play, and I've made it very clear, as the representative refers to, because I think it's an unmanageable signal and a bad tool to achieve the goal. The whole problem of return is a very complex matter that we have to work on to involve countries in respecting their international obligations. Often, the help we give to this type of country – many of them go under the failed state category, there are no authorities there – just to help those groups that don't get any kind of help, and it wouldn't be useful to break it off as an instrument. But I will repeat: aid is a political tool, and there is a policy behind the choices we make.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e428	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e431	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. First, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Transport on the presentation to the Stortinget of the National Transport Plan. We've been looking forward to it for a very long time. There are many positive proposals and many measures that are necessary and that have received a lot of attention in local media. All of this is good. What has become clear to many, however, is that the plan does not have a good response to the challenges we face, with queue and need in urban areas. In the big cities, a strong population growth is expected, so even if it's easier to get to the cities, either by track or by car, we can risk getting even longer queues inside the cities. In other words, it becomes more difficult for people to get to and from work and kindergarten. So my question to the Minister of Transport is: Does she agree with this situation description, and has she given any thought to how the challenges in our major cities will be solved in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e441	In the national transport plan, it is an own chapter on urban policy. Major parts of the solutions to be found in the largest cities – Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and the other major cities – are in close cooperation with the cities themselves. It is also a question of municipal policy, because it is about land disposal, it is about public transport, and it is about any restrictions to be imposed on the transport of cars into the cities. There was a picture in the media of the same day that the National Transport Plan was presented, where there were 50,000 new car journeys in this city. I want to see it as it pleases. So the big challenge, which we also address in the national transport plan, is how we get the growth that will come in urban areas to come on public transport – and not on car transport. This does not mean that roads should not be better both in cities and around them, but the most important thing is to ensure that we get a better collective effort. That's why we have, among other things, additional double parking arrangements for public transport in large cities, to 646 million. NOK, from 323 as it is today. That is why we are doubling the rate of investment on the railways. And that's why we have an own programme for Oslo, for the railroad here, at NOK 2 billion, as well as what has already been included in both the action package and the budget – to ensure that we get speed on the railway. That's why we're together with the big city councils, like Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen, to develop their urban packages, where one sees collective investment and reduced car transport in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e448	I thank the Minister for Transport for the answer. I agree with her that growth must happen on the collective front. After NTP was presented last week, the Minister of Transport was able to report flowers and congratulations messages to the Government, while we received a number of concerns from the Left Group Office. It was Bergen, where one was disappointed by the lack of will for the city track, the North-Jären as well, and in Kristiansand and several large cities it was a great frustration. And in Oslo, people like herring are standing in the barrel because the capacity is blown up. It's about the rewards, but the way we see it in the left hand side, it's going to be the puzzle 320 million. kr during the planning period. We see that as a puzzle. What does the Minister for Transport say about the criticism she gets from the cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e457	I have a lot of understanding of the criticism that comes from our political opponents, but I don't understand why the Left comes with him. So the left has not delivered in this area at all. What we're doing is a quantum leap in relation to what Left has stood for. That's why I let myself have a little smile. But the situation in which cities are located, I'm very serious. What's also important is to remember the gamblers who failed in all the debt. There are other national road vehicles that are being used today for the urban railway in Bergen. It is the municipality’s own funds – in the form of the county municipality that disposes of the other national roads – that will become county roads from 1 January 2010, which finance that package. That's why I have to say, unfortunately, that the signals coming from Bergen are quite immoderate, where one criticises me for not taking the initiative to make toll decisions. The City Council in Bergen must do it itself. So I have said many times to the City Council in Bergen that we should have a good dialogue and a constructive cooperation to get the Bergen programme carried on, to get the city track going – but to be neat in the discussion is necessary. It also applies to the orbit of the North Jury.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e464	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e467	I keep recording that when the Council of State is here, she boasts of the historicity of what this government has accomplished, and complains about all the other former governments. At least there is no doubt that the capital and surrounding cities face major challenges in terms of public transport to and from the capital. In fact, it is of little help that the Council of State has met with the Railway Agency and the NSB up to several times during the three years that the Council of State has been the Council of State. It does little for all passengers who experience delays, train cancellations and other aspects of the collective provision, especially in and from the capital. The question to the Council of State is now: Will the Council of State ensure that, in line with people travelling by air and other means of transport, train passengers, too, are covered when they do not receive the offer they have paid for? Will the State Council ensure that train passengers receive the same reimbursement when the Railway Agency and the NSB are unable to deliver what they are required to deliver?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e474	The question from the representative Hoksrud is to open doors, because we have already introduced a system of compensation for those who feel that trains are not running. The most important thing this government does is to have a gigantic train effort. I'm going to be good at using words like "historical" and such, but when that's the case, there's a lot of people who have used that word. In the railway works and among those who work with the system and are occupied by the railway works, there is at least a great deal of joy over what is happening on the railway, which is a new era. What we've done, not least here in Oslo, is not just having a meeting; we've put in the funds that the Railway Agency has requested in relation to the upgrade. It's a pleasure to see that in spite of the delays that exist, the Oslo Tunnel has not been responsible for it lately, precisely because we have put in extra funds to repair the Oslo Tunnel. Now there's 2 million. kr to an own application in Oslo for the renewal of this very important hub like Oslo. It'll be change and friction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e483	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e486	I must first draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that it is this government that has removed the responsibility of the municipalities of Bergen for public transport. Thus, big cities face major challenges, and they have imposed great burdens on their citizens in order to meet these traffic challenges. But in Bergen, unfortunately, a media circus has arisen in the wake of the presentation of the NTP. The issue is that the Bergen programme and the urban development phase 2 were not given the expected attention. The Minister of Transport claims that Bergen at the City Council did not do the job by submitting an application. They have not at all said that it is Navarsete who wants this application. No, the municipality of Bergen claims that all meetings with the Directorate of Road and the Ministry of Transport have been told to await the NTP and the frameworks that lie there. What's unfortunate is that you can get the impression that this government is running some kind of obstruction against bourgeoisly run cities and municipalities. Or is it that the Council of State has changed its view of what should be the content of that application?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e495	It is Bergen that determines the content of that application, it is not the Council of State. Trondheim determines the content of the application from the municipality of Trondheim. Trondheim Municipality has initiated a fuel tax in Trondheim, it is not the Council of State. It is Trondheim municipality that has sent an application in relation to tolls in Trondheim. It is Oslo Municipality and Akershu County that have created Oslopackak 3, it is not the Council of State. I have praised them for more than once, because I think they have done a great job of getting a broad political majority. But I have not picked up a phone and said that now they have to bring it and that application. The application came a long time ago. That's why that proposition is coming now. The Bergen and the City Council must take their responsibility. The Bergen and the City Council must make their decisions, which does not include an intentional decision. They must make their decisions. The county has exactly the same opinion as the council. They must make their decisions, send them to the county, and send them to the state road that prepares answers. They'll have a dialog, of course. I have had a very good dialogue with the municipality of Oslo. It's not the three government parties that sit there, but I really appreciate the dialogue we've had with Oslo Municipality in relation to Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e500	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e503	The doubling of the reward scheme for the big cities has supported the Christian People's Party. As far as I am aware, criteria for building walking and cycling routes are also included in the same scheme. My time in the Committee on Transport has brought countless stops because parents with children have set themselves free to demonstrate for better walking and cycling routes. The Christian People's Party is now making an attempt to draw children's perspective more strongly into the national transport plan. As part of this, we would like to propose a reward scheme that goes beyond what concerns big cities, which can also apply to all counties and municipalities in the country, a reward scheme for the construction of walking and cycling roads — that is. that a county or municipality wishing to make an extra effort in this area can receive top funding from a reward scheme. Does the Minister agree with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e511	Looking at the history of the Christian People's Party and the National Transport Plan, it is necessary to have such pruning arrangements, because there has not been so much within the plan itself. We've arranged for 500 kilometers of new walking and cycling roads to be built. It's a formidable lift compared to the status today. At least half of it shall be used for interrelated walking and cycling routes in the major cities. It's incredibly important. I myself am a cyclist in this city. I thought it was very fun to ride a bike, but it is clear that a coherent network will make many more people want to take their bike and their feet. It's the same thing with a view to securing the school roads out there. I am completely united in the Christian People's Party's good intention. I'm very united. It is unlikely that we will be able to speed up the development of walking and cycling roads. I think we'll do it with what's in the national transport plan. But I like to cooperate with the Christian People's Party to get even more speed on it, because I think it's an important question – both health policy and traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e518	Odd Einar Dørum – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e521	It pushed me a little bit. The left has indeed delivered on public transport! We have been involved in making the trick in Oslo from being a rolling museum to rolling success. We have done that by investing in the incentive scheme, the reward scheme. In the city we're in now, it spends SEK 1.5 billion on public transport over the municipal budget per. years. In the transport plan, the government has committed to increase the reward scheme by 320 million. kr. That's good. It's a good tool. But my question, since we talk about delivering, is: What kind of thoughts does the Council of State have about delivering on this reward scheme that is the state's share in relation to 13 urban areas – Oslo and twelve other urban areas? Should you approach the level that Oslo alone spends on public transport, NOK 1.5 billion, or should you pay attention to the level that the Government has set? When will the Government deliver on rail through the Groruddalen? You want to bet on it – there are 120 000 people living there. When should the train go as frequently as the T-Bahn does on both sides of the valley? When will the Government deliver its part when it is delivered locally?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e526	I'm sorry if I upset Mr. Dørum. I only took a position on what has been delivered in national transport plans, and what has been in this room. I want to praise the Left in Oslo. They've done a lot of good in the collective area -- they should, absolutely. When it applies to our delivery, he is quite well described in the National Transport Plan. We may disagree about a lot, but I believe that the left is certainly in agreement with me that the bet that is there is absolutely necessary. In that effort, there will also be more frequent take-offs to nearby areas when we get to stand up to the intercity bits that are now in place – first the West Corridor and then they come evenly. Then we'll get a whole different frequency and a completely different capacity than what we have today. Of course, it also includes the purchase of new trains. I think it's the municipalities and the county that have to be responsible for the collective area. So we're not going to match them with government funds. We have to transfer in the municipal propositions sufficient resources to get them to do their job. That's our answer, so the municipality of Oslo will get even bigger muscles to do its job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e535	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e538	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The participation of the centre party in the red-green government has been a very expensive journey for Norwegian consumers. Only in the last year has the government increased food prices through the agricultural settlement by over NOK 2 billion. SEK 1.6 billion came in the farm plan a year ago and SEK 500 million. kr in the adjustment negotiations for the new year. At the same time, we now see that very many workers and businesses are in a very difficult situation because of the international economic situation. We see that many lose their work. Others are allowed to leave and thus have a worse economy. We also see that in the border areas towards Sweden it is now almost wild conditions due to the cheap Swedish krona, which makes it very beneficial for Norwegian consumers to travel to Sweden to buy the necessary groceries. Then my question is, will the Council of State contribute to this year's agricultural settlement being as moderate as for other workers? We now see that both business managers and central trade union leaders go out and warn that especially in the competitive industry, there will be almost a zero settlement. Will the Council of State follow up on this in the agricultural settlement as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e549	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr asks an important question. He sets the trend in the agricultural industry against the situation in the country in relation to the financial crisis. It is quite clear that the agricultural industry must also take its responsibility in terms of economic developments in the country in general and in terms of the challenges of the financial crisis. It is true that today agriculture is actually a kind of safe port, because we have a national agricultural policy that ensures Norwegian food production, which ensures employment in agriculture and ensures employment in rural areas. It has been very important to implement. This government, as the representative Asmyhr stressed, has provided agricultural settlements which have provided the industry with the necessary revenue commitments and helped to reduce the income gap between farmers and other groups. With regard to the price increases, I would like to stress that the target price increases in the ordinary agricultural negotiations in 2008 mean that the prices of Norwegian-produced agricultural products can increase by 31⁄4 pst. The isolated effect of food prices will only be 21⁄4 pst., if you see it on an annual basis. This means that a family of two adults and two children can, as a result of the farm planning, increase their expenditure on groceries by an estimated DKK 1500 over a year. The agricultural policy pursued by Norway has contributed to the fact that Norwegian food prices, in relation to the income of the Nordics, are the lowest in Europe. It's a stable, good development. In fact, agricultural agreements have ensured stability for consumers as well. It is also true that one cannot blame agriculture for being responsible for the increase in prices made by other parts of the value chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e558	I have to ask the Council of State to answer specifically the question I have. I think the conclusion that the Council of State had here is very interesting. It is obvious that in Norway there is no competition in the primary stage of agriculture. There is reason to believe that there is limited competition also in the field of industry. There are also allegations that there is limited competition in the Norwegian groceries market, although we have the four large food chains. The council says that food prices are only going to increase by 21⁄4 pst. So now the food prices just increased from January to February by about 3 pst. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State help us to face competitive conditions throughout the food chain, so that this will benefit Norwegian consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e567	It is the Competition Authority that is responsible for competition policy in Norway. When the representative Kielland Asmyhr says that I did not answer the question, I just want to stress that if the target price increases that one had after the adjustment negotiations in the new year are realised, the isolated effect of it is estimated to only increase food prices by 1⁄2. If we look at the effect of this price increase on the consumer price index, we see it's 0.05 pst. So for consumers, the limited impact of the price increases that have come as a result of the agricultural agreement is. The system we have in Norway contributes to the stability of prices, including for consumers. I would like to stress that as far as competition in the markets is concerned, as I said, the Competition Authority is responsible for it, and I have nothing against them doing their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e576	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e579	I think it is obvious to all those who have followed the agricultural policy during this enlargement period that Norwegian consumers are at the very bottom of the agricultural and food policy. We saw it in the previous farm statement, when almost the entire bill for increased income frame was transferred to consumers – and according to the trade in goods with an effect of NOK 3 500 per person. family, which is quite interesting from a distribution point of view. We also see it in competition policy, where the Government reviews consumer and competition considerations in every case where agricultural cooperatives have an interest, and we see it in customs protection issues, where the Government consistently takes the anti-consumer direction. We also have a policy where the Government makes little contribution to the efficient production of Norwegian food. In these days, the Government is working with a reform of market regulation and target prices in Norway to adapt to the WTO Agreement. Can the Council of State guarantee the Storting that in this context, too, consumer consideration will not become the balancing item of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e587	Firstly, I would like to reiterate what I stressed in the answer to the question from the representative Kielland Asmyhr that the Norwegian agricultural policy – the system we have with agricultural negotiations – contributes to the stability of food prices for Norwegian consumers as well. A year ago, Norwegian food prices were lower than international prices. This stability is good. With regard to the question from the representative Torbjørn Hansen, I would just like to stress that a working group with a broad representation from different parts of the industry has put forward a proposal to change the target price system. There is one thing that will be assessed and taken into consideration through the agricultural agreement. It would not be such that it would have a device against Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e594	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e597	After all, agricultural policy is very decisive for food prices in our country. The greater part of the agricultural policy that is given by promises of the state budget, the less needs to be taken by increasing food prices. The Christian People's Party criticized that, after the agricultural settlement last year, too much had to be covered by increased food prices. In the adjustment negotiations around the turn of the year, the whole bill had to be – 500 million. kr – be covered by an increase in food prices. Now we are approaching with a quick step a new agricultural business, and in these financial crisis times there is great expectation that a significant part of the price must be covered by government promises, just to dampen the rise in food prices. It would bring peace and security in many camps if the Council of State can confirm that that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e606	It is true, as the representative Sørfonn describes it, that most of the increase in agricultural incomes — or possible agricultural incomes — has been taken out, as a result of the agreement negotiated last year, through increased target prices. There was agreement between the parties. It was also correct, as I see it, given the importance of Norwegian farmers taking out what is possible in the market. And as I said, the Norwegian system contributes to stability, and we have the lowest food prices in Europe, if we see the costs of income that a Norwegian consumer has. As for the coming agricultural settlement, which one is going to go into in a few months, of course I won't say anything about it. It must be a normal debate. I am concerned that we should use both public budgets and price and tax mechanisms to get good settlements in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e613	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e616	Developments offer that we have progressive international competition in general and for agricultural products in particular. It seems to me that this government does not have a plan for how Norwegian agriculture is going to meet such a development. Instead of giving priority to forward-looking solutions, this government is shifting increased revenues mainly to consumers through increased prices, where the ceiling is now soon reached. We are left with a new income statement for agriculture. Does the Council of States have a plan, and what measures will it propose to meet international competition and the WTO round, in order to continue to lay the foundations for sustainable agriculture in that country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e623	It is true, as the representative of Kongshaug stresses, that Norwegian agriculture is under competitive pressure, and we have seen the effects of it both last year and this year. Last year, prices rose substantially internationally — a much higher price increase than we have had in Norway on the main commodities. This year it's the opposite. Then prices are falling sharply internationally, while, because of the agricultural agreement, we have an increase in prices. This gives serious challenges to agriculture, and I'm going to be the first to stress that we have to do something in that context. Among other things, we have set up this working group which has assessed changes in the target price system and it is one of the issues to be addressed by the agricultural agreement. In addition, I would like to stress that we have Article 19 negotiations with the EU. It also relates to that competitive situation. I just want to stress that we take a strong and real hold on the challenges that Kongshaug sets out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e630	Kåre Fostervold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e633	Let me start by quoting from the Nation on January 9th this year, where the Council of State says: ‘I am committed to ensuring the competitiveness of Norwegian agriculture and the food industry. There is a need for cost reductions in agriculture.’ That is a goal I agree with. Although the quotation is taken from the Yara and Fertiliser Prices round, I believe, hope and believe that this is the general position of the Council of State and the Government. One way to keep food prices down and competitiveness up is to reduce the cost to farmers of their food production. This can be done through tax relief. This can be done by reducing workload and form fields and also by red tape in agriculture. When negotiating with the peasant organisations, will the Council of State place greater emphasis on reducing costs at the level of food production than on increasing target prices and also food prices for consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e647	I will agree with the representative of Fostervold that the development of agricultural costs is particularly important for the development of incomes – developments in the ability to operate agriculture throughout the country, etc. I have said that cost reductions in Norwegian agriculture are important. We see the effect of this in terms of the fertiliser prices that have had a very large increase in the last year. Now we see that the oil price is falling. We see that prices of cereals are going down internationally. It also has a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. So Norway is in the middle of an international competition situation. Of course, my and agriculture’s challenge is to make the best use of cost reductions. It will be ensured through the negotiations in the context of the agricultural agreement. And so it is that we need to have a sensible structural development in agriculture, and we still stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e654	So the oral question time is over, and we go over to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e660	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show you in the context of the overview that has been distributed to the representatives' seats in the room. The President suggests that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved – and see it as agreed. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätt of the Minister of Finance, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e672	From the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance: «Legal assistance costs to ensure taxable profit are deductible in addition to the minimum deduction only when the costs are not considered to be incurred in securing minimum deductions based on employee income. This means that legal costs to ensure disputed remuneration are not deductible, which means that employee’s claims are largely borne by tax and attorney’s fees. Will the State Council consider changes in the rules for employees in pay disputes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e680	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e686	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘The government has introduced a CO2 tax on new cars in Norway. The impact of the car park in Norway is small, as Norway still has an old car park. Power for energy consumption, emissions, transport quality and, above all, road safety is high if the fleet can be strongly renewed over a short period of time. The financial crisis is refocusing on this and thus giving rise to new opportunities. What will the Council of State do to bring about a substantial renewal of the car park in Norway as an important part of improving transport quality and road safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e698	It is not right that the government has introduced a CO2 tax on new cars. But from 2007, the government announced the system of one-off charges. The entrance fee is initially charged to all cars except trucks and buses. Before 2007, the level of the one-off charge was determined by the weight, engine capacity and power of the vehicle. From 2007, the cylinder capacity component was replaced by a CO2 component. The conversion led to a more reasonable emission of low-CO2 cars than before, and higher-emission cars were more expensive. The introduction of a CO2 component led to a sharp drop in average emissions from new cars. While new cars were sold in 2006, an average emissions of 177 grams of CO2 per car. In 2007, new cars sold an average of 159 grams per km. km. In comparison, average emissions from new cars in Sweden were 181 grams per year. km in 2007. In order to stimulate further decline, additional tax havens for cars with small emissions and increased emissions for cars with high emissions have been introduced from 2009. The government will continue to use the charging policy to stimulate households and businesses to choose the most energy-efficient and emission-efficient vehicles possible. It is important to note that it is very energy-consuming to produce a car. From an energy and environmental perspective, it is therefore not obvious that it is effective to stimulate a faster replacement of the car park. On the other hand, it is clearly positive that the new cars purchased in any case are most efficient in their emissions and energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e727	At the same time, Norway has a high-average age car park, and Norway is in great need of continued car-based transport. Countries with a significantly younger car park than Norway are now implementing measures within the framework of their package of measures to speed up the economy. In Germany, the wreckage is increased. This has led to new car sales, for example: in February, which is the best in many years. I noticed that in Italy one tries a twist, one connects very high wreckage to how energy-efficient the new car purchase is. My follow-up is therefore: Shouldn't the Minister of Transport be involved in facilitating a much faster renewal of the car fleet in order to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e734	As I said in my main response, there is no indication that a faster replacement is the right answer from an environmental perspective. From a security perspective, getting new cars that can be safer and better than older cars, there is an additional perspective. Today, however, we are discussing the environment and CO2 issues, climate change emissions. Germany, Sweden and some other European countries have enormous car production. It's one of the real pillars of their economic policies. The use of this policy to stimulate the purchase of new cars to secure jobs in the automotive industry is, of course, the same as we set up our package of measures to ensure that we maintain jobs in our industries and in our work area. So it's a slightly different context than the environmental perspective we're discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e742	Taxes and charges on the purchase of a new car affect many conditions. The quality of transport is affected and the Council of State has also pointed to road safety in this last response. It is clear that the purchase of a newer car also provides safer cars. At the meeting of the Transport Committee of some time ago with the Swedish Parliament’s Transport Committee, road safety issues were discussed. Swedish politicians pointed to two main steps to reduce road accidents and road fatalities: safe roads and safe cars. Strong renewal of the car park in Norway can therefore be an essential measure to reduce today’s level of accident more towards the zero vision we all want to see implemented. Should not those who want to change cars to improve safety while reducing energy consumption be encouraged financially and not penalised financially?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e749	I can't agree with the description that a person is being punished financially if he wants to change a car. But there's an incentive for those who want to buy an environmentally friendly car, to do it, even on the economic side. To replace the car park with a more modern car park, I agree with Schwarzevik in that it has a security perspective that goes beyond politics. Fees are a question for the Minister of Finance and not for the Minister of Transport, so we may be moving a little bit over to Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen's field. I should therefore be a little careful with how I respond. But the government has a very clear goal. It is that we should modernise the road network and we should contribute to an environmentally friendly car park. I believe that just recently there will be an important part of the environmental struggle and the fight against climate change in the future, and that we will bring down the number of deadlocks on the roads through a wide range of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e759	My question to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion is as follows: ‘In Nav’s series ‘Work and Welfare’ No. 1 for 2009 refers to the fact that the number of people with disabilities has increased by nearly 3000 in the last year and that labour market developments cause many in this group to have serious difficulties in finding work. There is also a strong commitment to long-term qualification measures, which strengthen their potential when, hopefully, the labour market improves after 2010. What will the Council of State do to ensure a high level of action against this group in 2009 and 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e768	The figures show a decrease of 12 000 to 13 000 people with disabilities from 2005 to 2008. The number of persons with reduced working capacity is partly influenced by the number of people outside the labour market due to illness and partly influenced by the size and content of the rehabilitation effort. This figure must also be seen in the context of the proportion of those involved in labour-oriented measures. The increase in the number of action sites resulting from the recent package of measures will help to maintain the offer to people with disabilities at a high level in 2009. It is the State of Labour and Welfare that assesses the composition of measures within the given budgetary framework, including the focus on qualification measures. The government follows up St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, which address major changes with a view to improving user response and service provision. These include: establish an offer of work-oriented rehabilitation and launch a test of a temporary wage subsidy. These are measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. Persons with reduced working capacity have access to the full range of measures and services in the Employment and Welfare Act. A number of measures are also being taken to increase the participation of people outside or outside the labour market, where the Nav reform is particularly important. People with disabilities have been and are a high priority group in labour market policy. The size of the group’s labour market measures has increased significantly in recent years. The transition to work has gradually increased to nearly half of all those who have completed their vocational rehabilitation. The notification measures are continued at a high level in 2009. The level of ambition of this group should be high. A worsening labour market situation makes it more difficult to get people with disabilities into work. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will therefore follow developments closely and will assess the need to strengthen efforts towards people with disabilities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e785	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The growth rate of the number of unemployed is very worrying. It is necessary to address unemployment through cyclical measures, as already mentioned. In addition to addressing the increased influx of new groups of unemployed, the Christian People’s Party expects the Government to maintain at least the same level of action for people with reduced working capacity in 2009 as in 2008. Can the Council of State ensure that the level of action for this group is at least as high as last year? Yesterday’s interpellation debate found that the action intensity has fallen from 69 pst. to 64 pst. What ambitions and objectives have the Council of State set itself? Should the target be, for example: be 70 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e794	As I said, it is the Working and Welfare Act that assesses the distribution of actions. But I fully agree with what the representative addresses. That is why we have introduced significant new measures into the action package in January, precisely because my starting point has always been that when we need to do a better and bigger job for more unemployed people, it should not go beyond the weak ones in the labour market. Although these measures are now put together as one item in the State budget, it is estimated that there is something about cyclical locations, and something about all the other places, which can now be seen in the context. I can assure the representative that it is calculated that the places that have now been allocated extra will be allocated to cyclical measures, precisely on the basis of the fact that the cyclical problem will not affect the weakest in the labour market. So there I can confirm that we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e801	I thank you again for the answer. All indications suggest that in the second half of this year, the proportion of people who have been unemployed for more than six months will increase as usual. At the same time, the proportion of people with reduced working capacity will increase as a result of the tight labour market. Accompanying companies indicate that they can receive several thousand unemployed persons on short notice. Are there plans for how the Government will solve this structural challenge, which we must recognise requires far more than just maintaining the current level of action? See, for example, the Councils of State. on the recruitment and growth companies as relevant co-players and partners in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e810	Fortunately, we now have a variety of instruments, both for those with special challenges in the labour market and for the unemployed. At each office, continuous assessments are made as to which services are best suited for each user. For me that will be the starting point. So we've made it more flexible to choose between measures. The Storting has agreed with the Government on that. So we've given more of the opportunity to give tailors' swimmers in order to adapt the offer. And then we're going to add up the performance basis. Everything has the common intention of giving users the best offer for them, which we also get for example. through an unlimited wage subsidy, which is a new instrument among more opportunities. In that menu of opportunities, of course, the delivery companies also have their role for them for which it is the right action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e820	‘In the NRK, the Socialist Left Party of the Government stated that they wanted a political solution for the so-called MUFs, those with a temporary work permit without the right to family reunification, so that they could remain in Norway despite decisions by UNEs – Foreign Minister. Does this mean that the Government considers such a political solution, or does it insist that matters be dealt with in accordance with the same legislation as others, as the Government decided in 2006?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e827	It is such that the MUF case is a very special case in Norwegian immigration history. There is one matter that has involved up to several governments – both those who are now in opposition, and those who are in position. Over the long period since the arrival of the MUFs in Norway, there has been a period during which the possibility of returning has been permitted. There has been an opportunity to apply to stay in Norway because one has a job, so now there are some cases to be dealt with in the light of the cases dealt with by UDI in advance of the known UDI case. For my part, it is very important to approach me these questions with the recognition that we are up in a very complicated case. For me, it is also important not to have political prestige in this matter. In this context, I would like to say that there are some of the so-called MUFs – i.e. not all, it is wrong to refer to the MUFs as a group – which could at some point, both in 2005 and in 2006, be expected to receive a residence permit in Norway. For my part, I am concerned that we can assess those MUFs that were either authorised in connection with Solberg's decree in 2005, and later lost it because they lost their job, or those who were given a humanitarian stay on the UDI, but later lost it, or those who did not get their case dealt with, and still remained untreated when UDI dealt with the cases in 2006. I think it would be reasonable if one in that kind of case – where one has given expectations to MUFs – put more emphasis on the fact that the length of the stay has now been very long. I think we'd all be well served that once and for all, we're going to have a point for the MUF case, and that we're also going to assume that for some of those who have been suggested the possibility of staying in Norway, the ten years that have passed since they came, are an extremely long period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e838	This was a very unclear answer, so I have to clarify the question further. In the UNE's treatment of these individual cases, it is considered that they had any expectation of being allowed to stay. In addition, the time they have spent in Norway until the UN decision has been weighted. Then a UN decision has been made that, despite this, they are not allowed to stay in Norway. Does the Government's response mean that the Government is working on, or is thinking about, finding new solutions to give those who have now been rejected by the UN, stay?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e847	I don't think the answer was unclear, but I think maybe it was surprising that a political news is presented that way in the Question Time. What I'm saying is that the government is in favour of greater emphasis being placed on living time than has so far been the case, and as the representative Höie clearly described. That doesn't mean that everyone should be allowed to stay, because there are some assumptions that have been lying there all along. It's that the identity has to be clarified. It is that one should not have committed criminal acts that provide a basis for expulsion. My position on this question is that they will not, of course, receive a residence permit in the future, but there are therefore some in the group we are talking about – perhaps about. 300 people – who have come to believe that they could get a residence permit in Norway and who have lost that opportunity later. For that group, I now think that it is time to put a line, finish the case and move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e863	This means, in fact, that the Government has changed its position since this case was handled by the previous minister who was responsible for this issue, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who clearly stated that these matters should be dealt with in an ordinary manner under the legislation under which other matters were dealt with. My question to the Council of State is: What legislation, and in what way, will these matters which have now been dealt with in the UN be re-examined, as is now the case with signals from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e870	It is a matter that I have taken over not only from the Council of State that the representative Höie mentioned. It actually started with State Council Dørum, and then State Council Solberg and State Council Brustad have also dealt with the same matter. It is precisely the history that we want to set a finish line for this matter. We say that there can be more emphasis on some people actually being here for very many years, unimaginably many years, and at some point it was suggested that they might be. It's a special situation. Thus, they must not have committed criminal activity or an undisclosed identity in order to be able to obtain such a residence permit on the basis of a long period of time. We are now going to start work on the regulation aimed at clarifying the relationship with the MUFs that have at any time been suggested the possibility of staying in Norway, and thus setting the point for the MUF case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e878	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «The undersigned refers to the World Gang on 26 February, where it appears that the Rikshospital will cut in the obesity treatment at the Coast Hospital in Stavern. This offer, as I signed it, is a very good offer to a vulnerable patient group. How does the Council of State address the possible closure of this offer at the Coastal Hospital, and what action, if any, will it take to ensure that the offer is continued, at least as much as it is at present?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e887	Let me start by saying that it's good to see that the committee's head is fresh again. I hope he has received good help from a good health care provider. Many patients with morbidity need long-term treatment and follow-up and often help to change their lifestyle. In recent years, all regional health establishments have established their own centres for the treatment of morbidity. These offer a wide range of treatment modalities. Health South-East prioritises work on health services for people with morbid obesity and its complications. The region has two resource centres: one at Oslo University Hospital, department Aker, and the other at the Hospital in Westfold. Both have life-style change programmes and operational offers. The Southern Hospital has a good offer for the conversion of lifestyles, but not for surgery. I am aware that Health South-East is working on a plan of measures, the aim of which is to establish an offer for patients with morbid obesity that is not to be operated on. There are already several such offers in the region, including: at the Norwegian Institute of Veterinary Medicine at Ringerijke, at the Evjeklinikken and at the Telemark Rehabilitation Centre at Nordagutu. An offer is also being made to children and young people at the Hospital in Westfold and at Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål Department. The former Coast Hospital, or Special Hospital for Rehabilitation, SSR, in Stavern, has been subject to the Rikshospitalet HF since 2003, and is from this year under Oslo University Hospital HF. SSR has been adopted on the basis of Oslo University Hospital. The offer is planned to be split up into the Hospital in Vestfold, the Hospital Telemark and Sørlanden Hospital by 1 July 2009. The treatment offer referred to by the representative Nesvik is a daily offer developed in cooperation with the Hospital in Vestfold, where one is concerned with documenting the long-term effect of the treatment of morbidity. I am informed that the Rikshospitalet had proposed to terminate the SSR's activity in this area in order to reduce costs. It was emphasised that it would be desirable to seek out other funding options to continue the offer. This action plan, which is now being discussed, was discussed by the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital (HF) on 26 February. The Managing Director was asked to continue to work to clarify the SSR’s activities aimed at morbid obesity, in cooperation with health businesses. The Management Board also asked the Executive Director, in cooperation with Health South-East RHF, to initiate a process to ensure the necessary financial clarifications before transferring to the three health establishments on 1 July 2009. When the representative Nesvik asks how the Council of State stands for the possible closure of this offer at the Coastal Hospital, I have to answer that as I experience the matter now, it is stopped by the board of Oslo University Hospital HF. You have to work more, you have to look at alternatives, and you have to evaluate the economy. It's a little difficult for me to consider how I view any cancellation of the SSR before I know what the options are. But I share the involvement of the representative Nesvik in the matter. The matter has also been raised with me in various contexts by other staging representatives, including. Mr Mandt-Bartholsen. That is why I work with the matter, but it has not yet been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e906	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am confident that the Council of State is now looking at this and following the matter. It is true that this offer is temporarily saved. There have been delays in dealing with this matter, the closure itself, the savings measure, to see if there are other ways to do it. The background to my question is that it is important that you have a different offer. There's a very big focus on the surgical piece related to obesity treatment, and then we tend to forget all of the other offers that are important to have in place, because that's not all that needs to be solved with surgery. What we're talking about here is a daily treatment offer. What is one of the main problems is the tariff system, which means that this offer has come into play. The rate associated with the treatment is so low in relation to the cost that it is not cost-effective to maintain the offer. That is why this too came into play. My question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State ensure that it is viewed on the very tariff system, so that we can have a varied offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e919	Firstly, I would like to say that I very much agree with the representative of Nesvik on this matter. In the treatment challenges we have related to morbid obesity, a wide range of services is important. It's not like surgery is the answer for everyone. Neither is surgery unproblematic. It's a major operation, and it's a demanding rehabilitation period after surgery. I fully agree with that. Therefore, I am pleased that an offer is not being made almost on autopilot without making sure that there are good alternatives, so that this patient group is followed elsewhere, if you decide that the SSR should possibly cancel this offer. Part of that debate is treatment tariffs. We have a continuous process where we look at the type of tariffs, including this one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e924	I would like to thank you once again for your answer. But in some of these situations, it's just that when a department comes into play in a lot of ways, you can have problems with what's involved in recruiting professionals, and you also get an uncertainty. It is clear that when you get an uncertainty about whether you have to make a good and well-functioning offer because you are considering starting something new elsewhere, I start to become a little concerned about what is behind the different reasoning. But I hope, as I said, that the Council of State will follow up this matter, so that this very uncertainty may be gone, because it is a well-functioning offer. We have seen a number of suggestions about patients who have stood up and been grateful for this offer. I fully agree with the Council when he says that not everyone should be treated with surgery, and then it is important that we take care of the well-functioning and up-to-date offers that are already out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e931	I don't know if I have anything more to add than to say that some of the things that involve me very much in relation to the treatment of this patient group are close to the treatment offer. So what I think is right to make an assessment of is whether one instead of having this together at the SSR in Health South East, has the opportunity to get an equally good offer with a greater spread, so that the treatment arrangements are closer to those patients who are going to work with lifestyle changes over a long period of time. But now we get a new review of it. Let's look at the results before we take the final judgment. We now have a discussion where we're in the middle of a process, and it's always demanding. It's easier to discuss when we have a proposal for a conclusion on the process to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e941	I have this question for the Minister of Health: ‘The Mayor of Nordre Aker Town in Oslo shouts caution because sick elderly patients who have to have a hospital or supervision at home are discharged prematurely from the hospitals. What will the Council of State do in the short term to ensure that printing practices in hospitals for seriously ill elderly people improve?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e950	That is a good and important question the representative Odd Einar Dørum is asking. I am not going to answer the question first, because precisely these kinds of issues are the main motivation for the interaction reform. We see that the health care system is too bad. The patient group that first made me really understand that there is a need for reform is the patient group Dørum here is concerned about. We see that for many old people there is no need for hospitalization, and that those who need hospitalization often find themselves in the situation that they have been treated in the hospital in themselves – nothing is going to happen to them in the hospital body, and they don't need the hospital's professionalism – but they're not healthy, they need a follow-up after hospitals. In my opinion, it is right that it does not happen in a hospital, because it is not a good treatment offer to stay in a hospital when you do not have to be there, but very often it is too demanding to be at home. We see that this results in poor results, many renovations and dangerous situations. Helge Garåsen, a municipal doctor in Trondheim, has researched this in Trondheim. He is now involved in the entire interaction project and is working for me there. His research shows that it is simply dangerous if the printing is done too quickly and for too poor a municipal offer. Then there is a high degree of mortality associated with the change in the level of government. It shouldn't be like that. That is why, in the interaction reform, we are now based a lot on the knowledge from Helge Garåsen's research and the knowledge from Søbstad health centre in Trondheim, i.e. a professional scandal, I think the representative Dørum understands, between the specialist health service and the community health service, where one can take the great professional step in two, that one is in a district medical centre, an intermediate department, a local medical centre – here, dear children have many names – where you can stabilize the situation after hospitals before being rewritten. The experience from Garåsen's research is that there is a significant reduction in cleaning, that people move home and not in a nursing home, and they do with much less help at home. So it's a win-win situation. It's good for the health company, it's good for the municipality, and not least it's good for the patient. That is why the interaction reform will be very busy building local medical centres everywhere, including in Oslo, also in the city. Here it's going to be a lot of people, at least one in each part of the city, because there are so big populations. But then the representative Dørum probably understood with his question that I wanted to answer this, because it is not a short-term measure. It'll take some time to get this in place. The truth is that I do not have very many answers to the short-term challenge in addition to the following: I have instructed health companies in the 2009 mission paper to ensure that they have good cooperation agreements with the municipality. If you translate it into Oslo relations, I believe it is essential that Oslo University Hospital and Oslo Municipality have a close dialogue on this patient group. It is necessary to establish procedures to alert the healthcare provider that, tomorrow or in two days, a patient will come from us who is finished in the hospital, but who will need close follow-up also in the community health service, so that the care service knows that the patient is coming, has set up the staff after that, that the healthcare provider ensures that the report is completed, that the epicrisis is completed, that there is a security around the medicines on which the patient is going – that is, that all possible practical conditions as far as is possible are rectified. I really have no other good answer to the short-term challenge than that, as long as there is a lack of economic and legal structure in the field, there is reason and cooperation, dialogue, which is the option. So that's what we're adding up to in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e959	Let me start by saying that the Council of State and I have common values here, both emotionally and intellectually, and we have a common description of what the situation is. The left's view of what needs to be done is in parallel with what the Council of State calls the interaction reform. It has some other variations of itself, but I'm not taking it up. I also believe in the grips the Council of State is talking about, with experience both from Trondheim and, for that matter, from Ahus, and will, for my part, put me in the Ahus situation. And to say that to the Council of State, as a local politician in Oslo, I have also helped to strengthen the medical coverage in the city's nursing home, waiting for something to happen. But then to the short-term. In the short term, the Council of State has responded honestly and sincerely to what may happen. I'd feel calm if the councillor, like his predecessor, just took a little extra check that it happens just as well and as neat and really as he described in his reply to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e968	Of course I'll do that. What matters first and foremost now is that I'm going to follow up on Oslo University Hospital. It is clear that what is demanding in Oslo now is that a lot is happening around the establishment of Oslo University Hospital. Both the representative Dørum and I know that when such large organisations are involved in major change processes, things can go wrong. It's enough to mention Nav in this context -- we see how demanding it is. But we have to remember that we in the healthcare system are there for patients, and that's why we don't have to organize ourselves so that we don't manage to follow up patients in everyday life. So I'm going to follow up on Oslo University Hospital Health South-East. I think it is right that a good agreement should be made when we have two parties who are interested in reaching a good agreement. Therefore, it is also important that all good forces follow up with the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e975	The councils and I are like direct-talk politicians on a parallel course, and we understand each other very well when there are big processes. Nav is an example, but we would like to talk about the drug reform for that matter. I know it very well as to what it was like before the Oslo system became part of Health South-East, but I'm not going to take it now. I think what the Council of State took up, namely to make sure that the group of people we are talking about here, are not forgotten, is important, not least because Health South-East has sold – if one used that word – the capital process on the grounds that there is an older wave. Now I don't like that word, I think it's inhumane. I've personally said my name is Odd Einar Dørum, I'm not a tsunami. However, when we leave that word behind, I believe that once it has been marketed as strongly as a justification, it is also a particular responsibility to ensure that even during the demanding changes, the considerations described by the Council of State are taken into account. I trust that the Council of State will follow it up, precisely because I hear the way it is spoken, and as a politician I value it as the representative of an opposition party from a representative of the Government. I think it's going to happen as the Council of State says, and I'm going to base it on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e982	I have no comments except that I take with me what has now been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e990	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The undersigned refers to the situation related to the Adult Psychiatric Department of the Health. The Labour Inspectorate has asked for answers from Health Nordmøre and Romesdal by 25 March on the measures taken to resolve the situation. The undersigned has received signals indicating that the management of the entity is part of the conflict. What will the Council of State do to resolve the situation between employees and management in the Adult Psychiatric Department of Health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e999	Health Nordmøre and Romsdal are in the process of completing a comprehensive conversion process at the Adult Psychiatry Department. The main initiative involves the development of district psychiatric centres, while at the same time building up centralised functions. Over a five-year period, the regional health undertaking has redeployed the funding from Health Nordmøre and Romsdal and to the other undertakings. This has led to extensive downsizing in parallel with the construction of new psychiatry services. The Regional Health Agency’s Management Board is responsible for the proper organisation of its activities. I trust that the Board of Health Mid-Norway RHF will follow up on the fact that the conversion is in line with the legal and contractual work – supported by the social partners. I have assured myself that Health Nordmøre and Romsdal have used tools to avoid cancellations. This year an additional allocation of 14.4 million has been granted. kr, the eartag for conversion. The regional health undertaking has contributed competence to ensure the quality of the processes. I'm briefed that a new functional structure is now in place. The challenge is to ensure the recruitment of specialists and further develop the interaction with the municipalities. The vast majority of those affected by the downpour have received other job offers. Solutions remain to be found for approx. 20 people. Alternatives for these are being worked on, but I have been informed that cancellations must be taken into account. I am aware that the matter has been an impact on the working environment. The Labour Inspectorate, as pointed out by the representative Nesvik, has ordered action to be taken. The time limit has been extended by the Labour Inspectorate until 1 June. I have assured myself that the board of Health Mid-Norway is informed about the matter, and I trust that they are now close to the process. As an employer, Health Nordmøre and Romsdal have to solve these issues. I know that the healthcare company has now sought assistance from the employer organisation Spekter, and that Specter, the Trade Union, the RHF and Health Nordmøre and Romsdal will have a meeting on the matter. I assume that this will be followed up, and that the deviations from the Labour Inspectorate will be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1014	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As a magnificent representative, I think it is special that I have to address this matter in this forum, and could well imagine that I had not done so, because it is also important that we do not – I kept saying – create new fronts in the matter. The background to my question is that as late as three days ago, the Norwegian Medical Association sent a new warning letter to the Norwegian Medical Association. The reason why I deal with the matter with the Council of State is that there is also a conflict between employees and management. The management of the health business is also involved. The same letter also refers to the fact that the undersigned no longer accepts that the HF and RHF management remove the concern of the doctors that this allegedly is only about the trade union's resistance to de-manning in connection with the ongoing conversion process. Will the Council of State ensure that at least a dialogue is initiated, so that one sits around the same table to resolve this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1025	I think it is important for me now to be very clear that the regional health care company has a responsibility to follow up the health care company in such a way that it takes good care of its employer's responsibilities. I believe that it is now important to put the responsibility where the responsibility should be, on the health company and on the RHF. It is clear that dialogue is a prerequisite for a good working environment. Many of the demands from the Labour Inspectorate are just about having good cooperation and conflict resolution procedures and venues. It's in the cards that it has to be in place. At the same time, I believe that the representative, Mr Nesvik and I, should be aware that these kind of changes, which are necessary, are demanding and conflictful. Nor should one become so paralysed when challenges arise in that context that we must intervene in processes that actually need to be resolved locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1032	I agree with the Council of State in that answer, but that is why I also say that I feel it is special that I have to raise the matter here. The background for me to raise the matter is that this has lasted so long. Where responsibility lies for resolving the conflict itself, it may seem that the conflict has been so locked that there are problems with it. When conflicts in the world of work become highly entrenched, it is sometimes possible to get some input from the outside, just to see the conflict not only from the inside out, but also the opposite way. That's why I once again encourage the Council of State to look at – officially or unofficially – what kind of channels the Council of State is using. I think it's important that the responsibility should be placed where the responsibility belongs, but sometimes it can also be good to invite outside input to look at how to resolve conflicts. What's the problem here is that this ultimately affects patients, and that's my responsibility as well as that of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1039	I feel confident that this kind of process is now in progress. As I said in my answer, Specter is now connected nationally, the union is connected nationally, and the RHF is connected. The Labour Inspectorate's report is there, and the deviations pointed out by the Labour Inspectorate are primarily a lack of dialogue and conflict resolution systems. The deviations should be closed, there is a clear message from me. I believe that new things have happened in the process lately. There are new parties in the dialogue within the local health enterprise. I trust that it will now lead the matter into a fruitful development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1051	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions, in this case the Minister of Justice working: ‘In the police district of Nordmøre and Romsdal, there is frustration and disbelief in briefings that these days are given that the county office in many municipalities is about to disappear. This also applies to large municipalities with a population of up to ten thousand inhabitants. The justification is too tight a financial framework. The presence of police and the proximity of the Länsmannskontoret is important for the inhabitants of any municipality. Does the Council of State agree with such centralisation of the Länsmannskontoret as it now appears to be added?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1060	At the outset, I would like to state that border controls in the police and county councils, including police station and county officials' districts, are in each case a matter for the Government, which before the King of the Council of State makes changes to the borders of the offices. All changes in police organisation focus on good dialogue with municipalities. If a police district wishes to promote a proposal for border regulation, it shall make a formal request to the Police Directorate, which shall assess the proposal and, where appropriate, forward it to the Ministry of Justice with its recommendation. The police directorate has not received such proposals from the police chief in Northern Ireland and Romesdal. With regard to the reference to the ‘trampled financial framework’ in the questioner’s design of the question, I would like to inform you that the appropriations for the police and prosecution authorities have increased by NOK 2.3 billion since we took over after the Bondevik administration. Only in 2009 have the appropriations increased by more than DKK 1 billion. In addition, the additional appropriations adopted in December 2008 increased the budgets of the police districts by 52 million. kr. In my opinion, this is a significant strengthening of the police budget. The Directorate of Police shall be responsible for allocating the appropriations to the Police and Liaison Committee. Police districts receive a framework appropriation to cover all expenditure, such as wages and salaries, operations, investments, etc. It is up to the individual police districts to decide how the appropriations are to be allocated internally in the district. In general, I would like to point out that police districts should not set up more annual works than they have a financial framework. The allocation of this year’s appropriations has been the main objective of maintaining the level of operation in police districts at the same level as in 2008. Police districts have been reinforced by compensation for price and wage increases and for volume changes related, among other things. the management of non-residents, the winding-up of the auxiliaries scheme, new posts, the rights of beneficiaries and senior policy measures. In addition, districts will be able to use decommissioned funds by centrally financing DNA analyses. So I don't recognize myself in the picture drawn in the question asked by the questioner. On the contrary, police and officers offices have been significantly strengthened during this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1075	I will first be allowed to thank you for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State says, that there is no formal application for the closure of the Länsmannskontoret, but there has been an orientation round in the Nordmøre and Romsdal districts on the basis of a working group set up, where they propose as a possible alternative to the closure of Länsmannskontoret on the basis of tight frameworks and little resources and resources for the operation of police services. Then there are several people who question how it can be connected that this government grants so much money for the operation of the police and officers' offices and you are constantly being told that due to the lack of resources, the police services that are perceived to be completely natural are not being carried out. I can refer to headlines in the media, for example. ‘Not drunk’. I can also show that there have been road accidents where the police did not move out. Does the Council of State see the imbalance between increased appropriations and lack of resources for call-outs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1084	It is always an important question to ask yourself how to make the best use of the increased funds. This is partly about how police resources can collectively use their labour force. It is about the organisation of work, and of course there is always a discussion about priorities and what tasks are most important. However, in the case of North-Møre and Romesdal police districts in particular, they have increased the appropriations from 2008 to 2009 by 8.7 million. kr – an increase of 146 million. SEK in 2008 to SEK 154.7 million. kr in 2009. In addition, they also received six posts in the action package, which was presented on 26 January this year. And with that, the increase is going to be almost $12 million. In the North Moravia and Romesdal police districts. That, I would say, is a satisfactory budgetary situation in relation to the distribution model in question. Then we also know that we have a sharp increase in the coals of police training. This means that in the future we will also have more trained policemen available for service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1093	I thank you again for the answer. It is clear that it cannot be understood that there can be so much efficient resources when it is recorded at the same time that the police do not have the resources to carry out the tasks that the population has previously taken as completely natural. It is also very sad when it appears in repeated newspaper headlines that the Länsmannskontoret does not have the resources to move out. It then easily spreads the view that there is little control, so even if one commits wrongdoing, one is not taken, because the borrower does not come, etc. Will the Council of State go closer and find out what's really going on when there's no means to move out in spite of increased resources? Does it have anything to do with the distribution between city and country? Does it have to do with organization? Or is there simply too little resources compared to the costs of the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1100	In spite of the enormous escalation that has been made in the current period, we are not finished with the aftermath of what we inherited from the previous government. These include: The reason for the increase in admission to police training – we will have many more trained. Of course, it will be an important task in future budgets to provide room for these to be put into service. We also took an important step, we believe, in the action package, where we created hundreds of new civil positions, just to meet the tasks that civil servants can perform, in order to release police resources as much as possible for operational work. In practice, the action package means that about 280 police officers can be released for operational police work. The police directorate has also carried out an inquiry entitled ‘Police against 2020 – The needs of police personnel and competences’. The 2009 draft budget follows the recommendations in the report on increasing admission to Police College to 552 students. So we do a lot of things, but it's always an important job to make sure that the resources are used in a good way, and that the increase in resources benefits people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1114	‘In Stortinget on 18 December 2006, I expressed my concern that Stortinget had only 14 days to deal with the emergency network issue. This is now over two years ago. In a letter to the Emergency Communications Directorate, DNK, on 31 October 2008, the health director threatened to shut down the emergency network. It was found that DNK wanted the evaluation only to look at the technical solutions, while the Health Directorate wanted to assess the functionality. The letter about this first became known in the Evening Post on 12 March 2009. Will the Council of State put the cards on the table and inform the Government of the facts of the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1121	The investments in a new emergency network are one of the really big steps taken by the Government to improve the ability of all operational teams to carry out their tasks in the best possible way. It's a huge investment, really, that society is now doing. It is not as the questioner puts it that the evaluation should only look at technical solutions. The evaluation is based on and follows up the government's previous decision on this matter. This means that both technical and functional aspects of the emergency network will be evaluated before we go further. According to original St.prp propulsion plan. No 30 for 2006-2007 and Innst. S. No 104 for 2006-2007, Emergency Networks were to be expanded during 2007 and their implementation began in 2008. The evaluation should provide sufficient basis for assessing further deployment after stage 1 of the 2009 budget. During the planning and expansion work, the supplier Nokia Siemens Networks AS has revealed for several rounds that key activities in their delivery will take more time than expected. The introduction of emergency networks into fire services, health services and the police has been delayed as a result of the delay of the supplier. The Ministry of Justice and Police will come back to the progress and consequences of the delays in the revised national budget for 2009, so that the Stortinge will be properly presented. The content of the evaluation is given in St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007 and in the setting thereof. None of the Directorates involved is free to review the Storting decision. It is Stortinget's leadership that we follow up on this matter. Work on the evaluation of the first development area has been started with a view to promoting the issue of the Storting without undue delay. Test and evaluation shall be carried out as soon as practicable, both early in the operational period and after completion of the first stage of development. The measures are implemented in such a way that effective project implementation is taken into account and as part of a process that enables the rapid realisation of a nationwide network without costly delay. This is a web we need. Our operational forces need it, and it will be a tremendous improvement in relation to future work. So this is a project that the government is very concerned about that should be of good quality, have a good price and be of good use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1134	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that this is an important tool for all the emergencies, and that it is important that it comes into place. I think it is a broad and broad support for this throughout the Stortinget. I also think it is good to hear that, in fact, it is the decision of the Stortinges to deal with the Emergency Communications Directorate. But I think the Council of State answered very little in relation to the letter from the Health Director. It's a pretty rough letter because I'm registering, and it's very clear that if you don't get an evaluation, not only of the technical solution, but also of the other issues, the Health Directorate is willing to stop further progress on the emergency network for its businesses. It's very serious. I think it's a little special when you don't get any information in connection with the 2009 state budget – such an important information, which the Stortinget should have known about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1139	I understand the frustration of those who are going to use this network and who are experiencing delays. It's for these users that this network is being built. So listening to the parties involved is important for the ministry. The size gave very clear guidance on what to evaluate, and the evaluation work will be a combination of measurements, internal assessments of the project and in emergency situations and external assessments. This is planned together with the relevant departments and directorates. What we need to assess and evaluate is the use and use of the emergency network to ensure operational utility of the emergency budgets and adequate utility of the emergency network for society. It is contractually attached and tested to ensure delivery is in line with contractual requirements. There are economic analyses to ensure control of the cost development of the project. It is project implementation that is evaluated in order to ensure an appropriate development and deployment by the supplier, state and emergency budgets. And it's an assessment of whether technology choices and technical solutions satisfy the need, and whether there's a need to make adjustments. So it's a set of criteria that the Storting has adopted, and that of course we follow up in our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1146	I think it's very good what the council says. I expect that it will also come into place, and that everything will be fully operational from the first stage of development during 2009. I hope that the Council of State can now confirm and guarantee that this will be done. I have asked questions to the Minister of Justice several times just to find out how the development is going. We see that there are still new postponements. So I hope that the Council of State can now confirm and guarantee that the new emergency network will be completed in the first stage of development and will start in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1153	What I can guarantee is that in the revised national budget we will come back to Stortinget with a good orientation. There have been delays. It's not because of the state's circumstances, it's because of the supplier's circumstances. We have a contract with the supplier. This ensures us, for example: relative to price. But progress has been a problem. Once the supplier has delivered the first stage of construction of the emergency network in line with the contract, an evaluation will be carried out. Then we're going to make a decision for step two as soon as possible. It is important to us that we have a fully-fledged emergency network that ensures the security of society, the public and the public so that the emergency network can facilitate the satisfactory solution of its tasks to the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1162	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Standing several small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, choose to use Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises, NUF, as a company form. The NUF provides an opportunity to reduce claims to NOK 100000 in share capital and audit obligations, an important simplification for many entrepreneurs. The growth of NUF companies increases the risk of tax evasion, social security fraud and other financial crimes. The EU and several competing countries have or will introduce simpler rules for SMEs. When will the Government follow up this development and thus facilitate new jobs and increased value creation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1171	The government is committed to facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway, seafaringly because they represent many jobs and form a large and important part of our economy as well. Let me first point out that a ‘Norwegian registered non-resident enterprise’, so-called NUF, is a legal way of registering a non-resident enterprise in Norway, and the vast majority of these enterprises operate fully legitimately, as I have become aware of it. However, the government is in the process of examining the use of the NUF in order to assess the issues that this way of organising activities can raise. The Board of Appeal has asked the Government to investigate the problems arising as a result of the appointment of the NUF as a company by companies, the requirements which should be imposed on such companies in order to address such problems, where appropriate, and the reason why the use of this type of company is actually increasing. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Finance have set up an inter-ministerial working group working on these issues, where this issue has been raised. The representative refers to the fact that the NUF allows claims to be dropped to NOK 100000 in share capital. As of today, there are no plans to lower this requirement. However, the Ministry of Justice is following developments in Europe in this area and has the observation issue, as it is called. In the context of ongoing work on the EU SME Action Package, the Small Business Act, the EU is working on a proposal to introduce a new European company form, the SPE. Norway is directly affected by this by the EEA Agreement and the Ministry of Justice is therefore following this work. The SPE share capital requirement has not been clarified. If this European company is introduced into Norway, the SPE will become a Norwegian company form, in line with a limited liability company. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is also developing a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, we also establish, as we know, a strategic advice, so that companies can provide advice and input, which I think is very valuable. The government is committed to improving the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway and facilitating jobs and value creation. We are now investigating, as we know, the issue of the NUF in Norway, we are monitoring the work on a new European company form, and we are developing an overall industrial policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1188	I would like to thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I feel that it is relatively easy for the government – almost independently of who is in government – to resort to tightening laws and regulations that generate more forms of business. It will always be the case that administration on an autonomous basis calls for better reporting, and administration is usually closer to government offices than those to report. And it is often the case that policy objectives can be achieved as achieved through reporting requirements, such as: at the time of conversion. Therefore, I would warn against the typical spinal cord reflex in terms of the development of the NUFs, which is stricter regulation. At a time of financial crisis, I would assume that the Minister of Industry also sees the point of being focused on facilitating start-ups, new businesses, so that people who lose their jobs can easily start a new job. Here's a couple of heavy conditions playing. There are stock capital requirements and there are audit requirements. Does not the evolution of the number of NUFs and developments in the EU with simplification for small and medium-sized enterprises mean that these are actually measures that can create more jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1197	I don't want to reject it. I also fully agree with the representative Hansen that it is an objective to ensure that the form field goes down. Because we know, and I feel that we are completely in agreement, that companies have to spend time on what they're going to spend time saying on primary: producing, creating values and selling what they produce. That means that we have a very active policy to get rid of the forms we don't need, but the representative, who has had co-representatives in government for many years, is also aware that it is not done overnight, and there are many who are going to be involved in such work. We are always very busy – and especially now – to facilitate the creation of new businesses. Because even though we are in a very serious and demanding situation, there are also some possibilities in it. Then it is of course important that we do both create new jobs by starting own businesses and developing new jobs in existing companies. We're putting everything in there to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1204	This is about the form field. Measurement of the form field as such is not an exact science. Nevertheless, every year the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade publishes a press release – a relatively offensive one – on how many years industry has saved on the government’s fight against the form field. Recently, we could read the Council of State telling us that the companies had saved 230.5 annual works on the government's fight against the form field. Of course, this should not be overlooked, even though the number of annual works is relatively small in relation to the overall size of business. On 17 March, however, the Financial Newspaper has a case in which it describes how this estimate of 230.5 years' work is produced: it is the individual department that reports to the Brønnøysund Register how much time they think the companies spend on their share of these 767 forms that businesses have to deal with. Only the SSB indicate how much time the companies themselves report that they are using. How exactly does the Council of State think that this estimate of 230,5 years' work saved in the fight against the form field is actually?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1209	There's at least one scale, and I'm glad that the representative Hansen says it's going in the right direction, because it does. – And if he hadn't said so, he should have said so! But, to be very serious, I mean what we say in that press release – that it goes in the right direction when a user uses fewer annual works on this. But we're not really satisfied with that. I mean, for example. that an important tool like Altinn, for which I feel that the representative Hansen is also concerned, is very important to develop. That is why we have concluded new contracts with them to make it a more suitable place for business to use. So I feel that we are completely in agreement. There we are not in the target either, but I am very concerned that we will spend the minimum amount of time on papers, and especially now. We need the business community to spend less time filling out forms and reading forms. That's why we're doing what we can to get it done, but unfortunately it's not done in one day or a few months. But the representative must be sure that we spend a lot of time on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1219	From the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Gassco is now investigating, on behalf of Gassnova, the basis for an investment decision for a 12 inch CO2 capture pipeline from Kårstø to storage in the Utsira formation. Gassco has concluded that a larger pipeline will be a more cost-effective solution. A larger line will also open up industrial possibilities for which a 12 inch line does not have the capacity. Will the Council of State contribute to Gassco’s mission to investigate the use of a larger pipeline from Kårstø to Utsira?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-18.ana.ud2656e1230	This question has been raised. The ordinary Questionnaire is thus terminated. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
