ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e41	In order to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council of Vilnius on 26 and 27 November, an application has been submitted by the Højres Storingsgruppe to the representative of Per-Kristian Foss. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Afshan Rafiq, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the Per-Kristian Foss leave of 26 and 27 November, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates, Kristin Vinje, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e66	Kristin Vinje is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e116	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 6 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 135 minutes, Advance Party 85 minutes, Right 65 minutes, Socialist Left Party 25 minutes, Center Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes and Left 10 minutes. It is proposed that the change of the Rules of Procedure be arranged as follows: six replies will be received after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and four replies from speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as from the speeches of the other state councils within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e127	On 13 October, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen presented the State budget for 2010. The budget is well adapted to the economic situation and contributes well to the meeting of increasing unemployment next year. I can't imagine any other task that is more important than making sure that as much as possible has a job to go to every day. And for Norwegian jobs, no action is more important than order in the economy. The importance of a broad welfare system for future growth is also well documented. It is simply not right that a large-scale tax-funded welfare state inhibits economic growth, which may give the impression of some. Within the framework of oil money use and an unchanged level of taxation, the Government has given priority to strengthening Community solutions in the fields of health, care, school and kindergarten — as well as major investments in roads, rail, research and environmental measures. I am convinced that Norway's comprehensive Community-based welfare sector is one of the reasons why the world's economic downturn has not hit Norway in the same way as other countries. Let me give some other examples of what the majority of the Committee supports on good proposals from the Government's budgetary proposals in the vote: Knowledge is important for the future. Norwegian schoolchildren need better learning conditions. In the State budget, therefore, government parties propose to increase school tuition hours by one week, broken down by 1–7. Steps and the introduction of an offer of eight hours of free lessons of lessons. Municipalities account for a large proportion of welfare production. The government proposes to increase the total income of the local government sector really by NOK 8 billion. Health enterprises are strengthened to increase their activity. The waiting lists shall be reduced and the Norwegian health service shall interact better. In addition, the Government proposes a total of DKK 1 billion for targeted measures to reduce poverty in 2010. Crime is to be combated, and police and prosecution authorities are to receive historically increased appropriations of DKK 1.3 billion in plus. Government parties are committed to good business conditions and propose many measures to promote this in the budget, as suggested in the vote. Among other things, the state budget for 2010 is the largest ever in research. Norway is a good country to operate in, and the industrial policy of the Government has produced good results in the last four years. We've had stronger growth in recent years than for example. The EU average and Norwegian enterprises are competitive in a global market. We who live in Norway are privileged and have a unique starting point in relation to most other countries. It is therefore important that we show solidarity with others and also take responsibility for climate change. Government Parties propose to increase the allocation of climate and forest spending in developing countries by around 650 million. kr. For various measures in the field of CO2 management, almost DKK 3.5 billion is proposed, which is DKK 1.6 billion more than in the aged budget. Was there anyone who said that the red-green government was not concerned with the climate? I think there's going to be something hollow. We want a fairer tax system that promotes employment, secures Community income and balances income differences. When we took over in 2005, the wealth tax had significant weaknesses and many loopholes. We've been doing something about this for years. In the 2010 budget, we continue this work, and the majority of the Committee supports the proposals for new valuation rules for dwellings, so that all dwellings in the country are taxed equally and more fairly also for those who are in a position to pay taxes on wealth. At the same time, a unanimous committee supports a significant increase in the asset tax base, from NOK 470 000 to NOK 700000 and almost double in the case of married couples. This means that eight out of ten people who pay taxes on wealth today will receive tax relief. Although it is a unanimous committee that supports the large increase in the capital tax base, it must be allowed to ask: Who would have thought that it was an Labour Party-led government that was far removed, or reduced, the wealth tax for ordinary employees, pensioners and many small business owners? Norway has experienced the financial crisis with Europe’s lowest unemployment as it now looks. We're gonna be proud of that. There are now clear indications that economic activity is on the way up again, following a very weak trend at the end of 2009 and into 2009. Yesterday, the new unemployment rate came from the Central Statistical Office. They showed that unemployment has remained stable in the last three months. That's good news. Nevertheless, the estimated growth in gross domestic product for 2010 is lower than the trend growth in the economy, and the Ministry of Finance forecasts show that unemployment is expected to increase from this year to next year. In other words, the economic downturn continues to affect the Norwegian economy, and the uncertainty is high, both in Norway and internationally. The government has therefore found it appropriate to add up to a weakly expansionary budget for 2010. This is supported by the majority of the Committee. Work until all are jobs. 1st@item: inlistbox Although we have much lower leave than our neighbouring countries, we do not intend to sit still and see that unemployment increases in 2010. As a starting point, the use of oil money is well justified next year. But the use of oil money requires a fine balance. I believe that the government has found the balance. The action room we provided by holding back in good times, we are now using to meet increasing unemployment and lower growth. But when growth and employment gradually return, because we have to hope for that, we have to be ready again to lower the use of money. We must then gradually move back to the 4 pst. path of the return of the oil fund. We have shown that we have managed to tighten up the use of money in the past, but this is going to be demanding. I would therefore challenge the whole of political and organisational Norway to participate in this work in a constructive way. Because in the future, in the interests of Norwegian jobs, this will have to be done. One point in the position of the Financial Committee has received, deserved or unearthed, more attention than other things, namely the Government's proposal to impose a car diesel tax on biodiesel. The proposal is known to introduce half the biodiesel levy in 2010 and the full 2011 levy. There are several reasons why we think this is right. I have had the dubious pleasure of working with taxes for several years. It's both exciting and challenging. I can only say one thing: fees are never going to be particularly popular. No one takes the wave when you argue that charges must be made. But they have to. The fuel charges, for example, provide the community with 16 billion kroner a year and are in line with the polluter-pays principle, not the community. We need all the money for a lot of good suggestions in the years to come. At the same time, there is also an international debate on how environmentally friendly and sustainable biofuels are. The UN just issued a report on this, which shows that not all biofuels are climate friendly. Six environmental organisations in Brussels have now also submitted the report ‘BIOFUELS trade with care’. Organisations are seriously concerned about the negative effects of bet on biofuels and doubts about the actual level of climate benefit. In my view, there is good and bad biofuels. That is why it is absolutely right when the Government now announces an increased sales ban on biofuels – that it should be accompanied by clear rules and product standards for which biofuels are to be marketable in Norway. No matter how we turn around and turn this question around, in my view, it is a wrong priority to subsidise car traffic through tax breaks that can in the long run cause income losses in the billions class. This is money we need for different climate and environmental measures that can produce even better effects, for example. railway, cycle path or Mongstad test centre for CO2 capture and storage. Therefore, we in the Committee believe that it is absolutely right and important that the State contributes to the development of 2nd and 3rd generation biodiesel, which is sustainable, environmentally friendly and forward-looking, rather than to grant tax exemptions for all types of biodiesel. We do that by giving, among other things. development aid granted to undertakings which develop and commercialise these biofuels. A new scheme in Innovation Norway will receive 140 million. kr to use, among others. to measures such as this. At the same time, as mentioned earlier, we will also support an increased sales ban for biofuels. This is also how we will ensure a comprehensive market for the marketing of biofuels that meet the sustainability and climate performance criteria in the future. Summary: Fee or no levy on biodiesel has been a demanding question for many. We have to respect that. But I believe that, through the examination of the matter and our proposals, we achieve the things that are necessary. We are now facing tighter economic times with regard to Norwegian jobs. There are still many unsolved tasks in Norwegian society. In conclusion, I would therefore like to say that I am absolutely sure that we will need every single tax and tax credit both from car traffic and other sectors in the future if we are to meet the demanding challenges facing the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e195	We have recorded that the government budget presented was clearly as well anchored as you now want to give the impression. We have recorded in the media that government councils have said that they did not fully know what to do when they went in for this biofuel tax, and we have recorded that it was clearly not clear in the big groups of the government parties either. There's been a lot of wedding around this, and so it's pretty good done by the chairman of the committee to give the impression that here you stand very well together about that part of the state budget. When the budget was presented on 13 October, the representative, Ms Mikalsen, said: ‘There will be an exciting harvest, with an exciting political budget presented.’ My question is, was it perhaps exciting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e207	I think it was driving well said by the undersigned. I pointed out how exciting this political harvest would be, and it has been. To the question: I believe that this is quite correct. With regard to the choice between spending a few billion kroner – the fuel tax takes, for example, 16 billion kroner, which I pointed to in my contribution – to subsidise car traffic in Norway, as we know will increase emissions, because if you make it cheaper to drive a car, people drive more cars, and to spend money for other good purposes, I have pointed out how I and the majority of the committee want to prioritise. At the same time, when we point out that there will be a comprehensive market for the marketing of biofuels in the future, with clear guidelines on how and what kind of biofuels to be marketable, I believe that we have found the solution to how to introduce more climate-friendly and sustainable fuel types in the future. So yes, I mean it has been an exciting political harvest, but no more exciting than we can bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e216	The head of the committee made a great point of the importance of Norwegian jobs, which I of course agree with him. However, in order for employees to have a job to go to, we also need employers, and employers depend on long-term sustainability. I think this budget, especially with regard to what has been pointed out about biodiesel, shows that the government doesn't look long-term at all. It is not useful to send out signals that investors will make large investments in eco-innovations and then eliminate incentives without notice. Several company owners have made large investments in order to use biodiesel. Several investors have invested, and they feel pretty tricked right now. I understand that very well. Does the chairman of the committee not understand that there must be predictability to make investors invest in reasonable tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e223	Since I arrived at Stortingen in 2005, I have in different contexts each time we propose changes, for example: to make the tax system fairer or other changes to the tax system, heard from representatives of the Right that we are almost scaring investors and people who want to create jobs out of the country. I feel that I'm getting a little tired of it. Norway is a very good country to operate in. We were previously appointed by the World Bank this year to the tenth best country of 186 countries to operate in. We have higher growth than the countries we compare with in Europe. We have also created a huge number of jobs and come out of the financial crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment rate. So I believe that the criticism of the fact that it is not possible to create jobs in Norway falls on its own unfairness. Rather, the right should be more concerned with supporting good distributional proposals in the tax system than with countering them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e228	I have to draw attention to the fact that the representative Svendsen represents the Progress Party. But the representative, Mr Gundersen, who is now to have the floor, represents the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e231	I'm sorry! It's not always as easy to see the difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e236	It was good the president made it aware. Now the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman is doing the same thing as the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister has done in the past: he connects SEK 16 billion in tax losses with the biodiesel decision. He can't believe it himself. It requires a momentary adjustment to the market by all moving to biodiesel simultaneously and immediately. That's not happening. It is obvious that investors from Norway are being scared away here, and jobs are also being scared out of Norway. We've seen more reports about that lately. The tragic thing about it is that politics loses credibility, and that credibility does not afford those who are going to lead us into a climate-friendly future to lose. So my question to the Labour Party's fiscal spokesman is: does the Workers' Party like green taxes as long as they don't work, and as soon as they start working, do you reverse them?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e246	The answer to Gundersen – from the Right, I understand – is as follows: In the case of green charges, and giving a tax exemption to road traffic, as the representative here suggests, is to completely turn the issue upside down. Green taxes are for me to pay the polluter, and when you drive on Norwegian roads, it means – whether you like it or not – that you are involved in somehow damaging the environment. It has to be paid for. This is the way we have put forward a scheme in which, for climate-friendly fuels, we still do not have to pay the CO2 tax, and in addition, we have arranged that we now double the market for biofuels in Norway. So I can't understand, when you add up to a doubling of a legal market for what you want to achieve in terms of biofuels, how that market is going to disappear overnight. I have a very hard time understanding that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e256	I think this case had been served with a little time-out where the government could have lowered its shoulders a little, had dialogue with the experts, with the companies, with the environmental organisations and found a solution that made people still willing to invest in green technology and environmentally friendly fuels, so that consumers could still know that acting environmentally friendly is worthwhile. I mean, obviously like Torgeir Micaelsen, that the polluter has to pay. But if you pollute less, you also have to pay less. Therefore, the Right, together with the other opposition parties, is today promoting a proposal to allow Stoltenberg to keep its taxes on the biodiesel that is legally imposed but to remove the levy on the biodiesel that is to compete with the diesel that pollutes. Is it a proposal, is it a compromise, which the government parties may be willing to look at and discuss, or is it the achievement that is now to force through an increased levy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e263	The answer to the last question is no. This isn't about prestige. It's about factual, good arguments for the polluter to pay. The answer to the other representative, Mr Sanner, is also no. The reason for this is that we believe that non-performing instruments by providing development support to those companies that want to create tomorrow’s climate-friendly and sustainable biofuels by doubling the sales mandate are good enough instruments to introduce this in Norway. No matter how you turn it around and turn it around, I can't believe that even with high blended biofuels, you're going to give tax advantages for road transport, as opposed to rail and maritime transport. It's not green in my eyes. It's not climate friendly. And it's not environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e268	For the sake of order, I represent the Christian People's Party. The representative, Mikalsen, said that he had had the dubious pleasure of working on fees. I believe him. At the same time, he said that the budget means fighting to preserve Norwegian jobs. It is then a great paradox that one of the decisions relating to the biodiesel tax contributes to the lay-offs of Norwegian jobs – that is to say, contrary to the claims made by the representative of Micaelsen. With the reason that it will cost to drive on Norwegian roads, there is also a clear signal that there will be charges, for example. on electric cars. That must be the consequence of the Chairman of the Financial Committee now taking place. My question is: does the representative Micaelsen agree that there is only a formal majority here in the Chamber who support the Government on this point? In fact, this proposal does not have a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e277	As head of the Financial Committee and as a major representative of the Workers' Party – and as part of the majority – I have always been concerned that there is an overall government, consisting of the Centre Party, the SV and the Workers' Party, which has promoted this proposal. The proposal has been to normal treatment and is normally anchored in the mainstreaming groups after a majority government has proposed something for the Storting. I believe that the proposal is factually justified, but it has been a demanding matter. Respect should be given to differences in views on how to introduce different types of climate-friendly fuels in Norway. One should also have respect for those of us who stand up and defend that there should be polluter who pays, and who also defends the noble intention, which I believe it is, to raise money for the community, money that we are going to spend on child protection and investment in roads, railways and other good purposes. That in itself is a good enough reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e284	After the budget was presented, a number of contributions have been made to the committee, both of which we are in. In addition, we have conducted hearings throughout two days, where, in my view, there have been some objections to which it has been useful to listen and which have been factual and well thought out and argued. The opposition has also made a number of contributions to the government parties. What does the Chair of the Financial Committee consider to be the point of conducting two full days of consultations on the State budget if it is not intended that anything should be changed? What are the figures during this period and the days that have passed since the budget was presented, heard and done something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e289	I believe that the days we have had consultations in our committee – and I guess it has also been in many other committees – have been useful. There are very many competent organizations – and I would say – good, competent lobbyists who have a noble cause, in the sense that they are promoting their interests in meeting the elected people here in Stortinget. I do not believe in any way that it has been of little use. We have e.g. demonstrated that when uncertainty was created as to whether there would be a large market for biofuels in the future, it has, inter alia, recording resulting in the Government sending, at the hearing, a proposal to double the market with regard to the turnover directive. If you read the cancellation, the government has asked for investigations related to research into and development of biofuels. In addition, we have also asked for a review of the framework conditions for the waste sector in Norway. Finally, I would like to add that even if things are not accepted right above the table after consultations in the financial committee this autumn, it is clear from the government parties at least that we have received many good suggestions and input that can be used in the work on next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e296	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e299	The government's proposals for the government budget and the commitment of the majority of the finance committee are marked by a lack of clear priorities, despite the fact that more oil money is spent on the government budget than ever before. With such an expansive use of money, one should expect to have managed to solve some of the major challenges facing the welfare community. But the government is obviously more concerned with managing than with renewing. The Progress Party considers that the submitted State budget is not fit to meet the challenges now facing Norway. In particular, it is strange to argue with such an expansive use of money that one should just rectify and help export-oriented business, the business that will wear off next year — and then the government's proposal for a government budget is chemically free of measures that can help that business. The Progress Party therefore proposes clear re-priorities in this State budget. We are promoting budgetary measures where the aim is to reduce the negative effects of the international financial crisis, which are still there. Furthermore, in the Progress Party, we have clear priorities so that better provision can be made in the municipalities, health services and the school sector. Furthermore, the Progress Party will strengthen its defence and investment in infrastructure. Our budget commitments include the construction and maintenance of infrastructure with a focus on roads, railways, school buildings and nursing homes. Through such a commitment, Norwegian infrastructure will be given an extension, while such public projects will be able to employ workers in the construction sector who may otherwise be at risk of being permitted or unemployed. As part of those budgetary measures, the Progress Party further proposes that tax reliefs be given next year, focusing on those with low and medium incomes. In order for these measures to have the desired effect, we propose that tax relief be granted through increased minimum deductions and increased deductions. We also propose a reduction in property taxes and the abolition of inheritance taxes, so that more enterprises and individuals can use their capital to reinvest in business. The reduction we propose in the taxes on wealth is the first step in the process of abolishing this strange double taxation. We have come into a situation where the Progress Party proposes a slightly less use of money over the state budget than the Government. We note that the government’s submitted government budget means that the rule of action as a fiscal governance tool is no longer relevant, because the government announces an oil money use that goes well beyond the financial crisis in 2009. We do not comply with the Government's rule of action and want an alternative rule of action. Otherwise, in the budgetary process, we are dealing with the economic situation in which the country is actually in. We are therefore promoting proposals for amendments in a number of areas. Norway, with its oil wealth, has opportunities for many other countries to envy us. Nevertheless, this should not be a sleeping cushion. But we are going to make good, sensible and necessary investments now, which will provide better framework conditions for today's citizens and those who come after us. Norway has a large public sector. This requires, in the view of the Progress Party, that we critically review public operations in order to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as wisely and efficiently as possible. As elected representatives, we manage the money we have available on behalf of the population. That is why, through our alternative state budget, we have systematically gone through all parts of public administration, bureaucracy and subsidy schemes. This is what we do, among other things. in order to release funds to be able to prioritise more strongly in the areas we believe the Government is doing too little, and we do so in order to be able to cut taxes and taxes collected by the State. We want most people to keep more of their wages and pensions, so that it is possible to live on their own income, and that you should make choices for yourself and your family to a much greater extent. We are still reminded of the situation for patients in hospitals and in the care of the elderly. We are looking at developments with great concern. The waiting lists are increasing, and it all testifies to a situation that is out of control. In the area of care for the elderly, there are considerable differences between municipalities, and everyone should really see the need for a vigilance for better care for the elderly. But the force of the Government's warning is absent. The Progress Party believes that we should provide better quality services to people in the care and health of the elderly, but more resources must also be allocated. The Progress Party therefore proposes a clear commitment to patient treatment and a strengthening of care for the elderly. We do this by proposing system modifications by using private offerings as a supplement to the public, but where the public pays, as well as more money earmarked for hospitals, patient care and elderly care in our municipalities. Once again, the government's poverty effort has proved to be inadequate. The government has not used the means to remedy the situation. We therefore put in our alternative state budget a number of proposals that will help reduce unemployment and increase productivity and efficiency in working life. If we're going to solve challenges for those who have little to walk with, it's about giving people the opportunity to cope with their own income. We are therefore proposing tax cuts that will benefit them with low incomes, and we are proposing a clear lifting for all minimum pensioners, which will allow a decent income. Drivers, travellers with public transport and business are reminded every day of the lack of investment in infrastructure. Our proposal is therefore in this budget today a long-term major effort on road development, we want to stop the use of toll collection, and we want to establish sustainable and predictable financing of these development projects that are so necessary, both on the road and on the rail/collective. This is what we do, among other things. by proposing the construction of an infrastructure fund in which returns are earmarked for real investment in transport. The government's budget proposal will not improve the security of most people. Unfortunately, the situation seems almost out of control, and many feel insecure. It is therefore necessary to do far more than what the Government does, including in the field of justice. We will therefore significantly increase the police operational budget next year, in order to ensure that even more police officers can be employed. We also want to make it even more possible for older, experienced policemen to have a sufficient offer of further service, and we will provide the police with an investment budget of their own, which is badly needed. The Progress Party believes that Norway should aim at the country’s education system being at the top of the world in terms of quality and learning outcomes and reflect that future jobs will to a large extent be knowledge-intensive. The government's draft budget puts too little emphasis on education and research in relation to the stated objectives. That's something we've seen repeating over several years. The main priorities of the Progress Party in this area are clear commitment to higher education and research, better quality of initial training, adapted education, camp schooling for all pupils and strengthening the supply of pupils with special needs. The Progress Party's alternative state budget, which we have promoted through the decision-making process of the Financial Committee, shows an alternative way of addressing the challenges facing society, and not least the challenges facing the nation next year, with continued international and national turbulence and economic turmoil. We are not over the crisis we have experienced in 2009. In particular, the budget decision we are going to take in this Chamber today should provide for better framework conditions for Norwegian business. The proposals of the Progress Party provide for predictability, better working life and contribute to job security. Finally, I am addressing all the proposals that the Progress Party, alone or together with others, has promoted through the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e341	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e346	In the best years of Norwegian business that we had before the financial crisis, with low unemployment, high growth and high pressure in the Norwegian economy, the Progress Party thought we should use 10, 30, 40, yes, it was a little unclear sometimes how many billions the Advance Party would spend, but at least much more oil billions than the Government provided. They did so despite the fact that the governor warned that such a policy would lead to an increase in interest rates and thus to problems for the export industry. Now we are in an economically demanding time with lower growth and increasing unemployment. I'm not an economist, but everything I've heard and read about economic theory suggests that you give a little more gas. So, despite some of the funny suggestions for the introduction of the Progress Party, the Advance Party is now making a point that they are using less oil money than the Norwegian government. I need to have a reading instructions on how to find out that in the best times in the Norwegian business life it was reasonable to give much more gas in terms of more oil money, while it is now the reverse, one makes a point of the opposite. What kind of seminar was it in the Progress Party big group that came up with this idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e354	When Torgeir Micaelsen talks about giving a little more gas in times of crisis, it's a cross of thought that the government's parties are giving so much gas that even for the Progress Party it's too much money. But the situation is that for us, it's how you might use something extra oil money, which is important. I know that Mr. Torgeir Micasen as a member of the Financial Committee has been looking at the budget of the Progress Party for the last four years, and then you'll see a clear device. We have proposed to spend extra oil money on tax relief, investment in infrastructure, knowledge and research, i.e. clear investment in the welfare community, which will make our welfare society better equipped to meet downtimes as well. That's what's been the whole point. Instead of just making a profit, as the Government has now experienced in 2009, with crisis measures, it is more sensible to make some investments that will keep us going against downtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e361	What does not come out of the answer is that it is not the Progress Party’s big group or Ulf Leirstein who determines the level of interest rates in Norway. That's what the governor does, and he's been pretty clear in his talk about what kind of consequences such a policy would lead to. But now leave it. I want to follow up on the case that has dominated the news image over the past few weeks, because in Political Quarter last Friday, the Energy and Environmental Policy spokesman of the Party of President Solvik-Olsen said that it would be right to impose a tax on biodiesel in the future, and on NRKs Here and now the same day party leader Siv Jensen was confronted with this, and she replied, «In the long term – and that is what he and I agree on.» After, what do we say, the comprehensive baluba or criticism of the Progress Party has launched against the Norwegian government related to this issue, the representative agrees with party leader Siv Jensen that it is right to impose a tax on biodiesel? Is it the famous environmental exposure of the Progress Party that is the background for this not to happen now, but instead when most people may have started to run on pure biodiesel?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e370	It's interesting to comment on the fact that it's the governor who determines the level of interest; it's absolutely correct. But I'm recording that while the government parties were very busy giving the Bank of Norway the credit or the blame for all these interest increases that they received in the last growing period, one was quite quick to say that it was the government's profit that the interest rate suddenly went down sharply. You have to decide who is responsible, but then you may also have to take responsibility in bad times. With regard to what has been said by my party president, it is quite natural to set up a type of charging system, but this is about predictability. It's about predictability for business, investing and investing, actually taking the same business on board before making big changes, and phase-in over time and creating a sustainable system. What you're doing now, like lightning from the clear sky, is suffocating these investments in the start-up phase. You can see the consequences: people are at risk of losing their jobs, and you have problems getting international capital to invest in Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e377	The representative Lunstein says they've gone through the budget and cut unnecessary things to spend the money on what's important, and then it's a little hairy to see that it means tax relief to people with million incomes and cut to the poorest. [[muttering in the hall]] Why is that necessary? Why does the Progress Party propose that the tens of thousands of the most disadvantaged in the country lose their fixed income and small increase in income by participating in the qualification programme, which can get them to work. The representative also believes it is important to give people the opportunity to manage their own income. Not enough of that, they also cut the support of lonely caregivers in order to be able to take education. The training aid works. People get into work, and thousands of kids don't grow up in poverty. It is old-fashioned politics: whip for the poor, and carrot for the rich. What is the Progress Party actually having against lonely dependants and people who are disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e382	The floor will be given to the representative, Mr Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e388	Thank you very much, Your Honor! There has been a slightly special start to this financial debate. Here you forget the name, here you forget party membership, so what's next? We'll see. How exciting it can be to see if you forget how to actually vote later this evening! The party of progress is definitely taking the weakest seriously. I think it is something special that the representative Karin Andersen, who had to ask his party leader to apologize to the poorest, stands and accuses the Progress Party of punishing the poorest. On the contrary, we have added to a budget where our tax relief benefits those who have the worst, most useful. We also make sure that we get more people working. Then we can lower some of the estimates on some budget lines. We get more people working, so that fewer people need the spaces for action provided by SV. We want people to live on their own income. It gives dignity. The Progress Party is proud that we are taking action that will improve the situation of many of the poorest countries, and unfortunately today's government does not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e399	The representative, Mr Leirstein, makes a total error in the budget of the Progress Party. The people who go on the qualification program don't get tax breaks. They are not working, but they are inside a scheme that allows them to get to work. These are among the most labour-oriented measures available to the most disadvantaged. The reason why we've given them increased income, fixed income, is because it's going to calm down around a difficult life situation, and to be able to get back to work. Lonely caregivers need education, so they can not only get a job, but they can also be in a job. It is a direct job-oriented measure for some of the most disadvantaged families in this country, which can bring these families out of poverty and into working life. Why can't the Progress Party afford these simple measures, when you have money for everything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e408	If you look at what we in the Progress Party are promoting through the labour and social part of our budget, there are a number of measures in which we use Nav in particular to get people back to work. We are making sure to promote a number of budgetary measures, a number of actions to make Nav also work to help these people. There are lots of individual measures that help the individual. But this was what Nav was supposed to do. It was Nav who wanted to find out what the individual needed to do to get them back to work, or get them on proper arrangements. Unfortunately, we now have a situation with a Nav system that doesn't work. A lot of enquiries to us depositors are just that this system has actually gone down – we have to take that! The Progress Party is promoting actions in its budget where these people will definitely get help through the Nav system – if Nav starts to work – and we hope that we can do that very quickly, and this Government should be committed to solving.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e415	In the Progress Party's own presentation of its alternative budget, one emphasizes that the Progress Party spends less money than the Government does. But it is also the case that the Progress Party has chosen a number of creative solutions to hide its money consumption. Among other things, the Progress Party chooses to cancel the toll due in the new era of the 2009 budget. It would be fully possible to close the tolling stations on 1 January 2010, even if it was inside the state budget. Is it, then, that the Progress Party has not been able to find money for this in the 2010 budget and therefore has to use this kind of trick, or is it that the Progress Party believes that the impact of budgetary money on the economy depends on the budget it is charged with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e422	The party of progress isn't trying to make any big point that we're using less than the government. On the contrary, we're trying to make good points about what we spend the money on, because that's what needs to be important. It's really a problem for today's government parties, who spend as much money as you do now, while the finance minister is flying around the country and the beach and telling you to spend a lot less in 2011. I'm happy to see the aged budget coming in a year. So to this so-called creative budgeting in relation to the deletion of tolls: it's nothing more or less creative than when the bulk of the population in its time cleared the debt associated with the Gardermoban. It was done with a pen stroke. That is also what the Progress Party is proposing. That's why we're adding to the new age that it's completely possible to erase the toll debt in this way. Then we make sure that the country's drivers don't pay tolls. Given how many new toll projects are in progress now, I think Norwegian drivers would be very happy about this, rather than the big bill that is coming next, and coming, years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e431	The party of progress is making significant cuts in transfers to agriculture. At the same time, the party stresses that it wishes to free the farmer and that the farmer should be regarded as an ordinary trader. The Christian People's Party proposes in this budget to increase depreciation rates for agricultural buildings from 4 to 6 p.m. Agricultural buildings have a higher rate of impairment than other production buildings, and the tax depreciation period, as it is today, is 100 years longer than the operating economy and 100 years longer in Norway than it is for similar constructions in Sweden and Denmark, according to the Agricultural Team. The low depreciation rate inhibits the ability to invest in Norwegian agriculture and creates a high liquidity burden in the case of larger investments. Why will the party not support this well-founded proposal when the party votes in favour of all possible other proposals regarding tax relief to business and individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e441	I hear that we supposedly vote for everything else of tax cuts. I have been on the news today early and explained why there are some things we have not been on, which the representative Andersen Eide has probably also brought with him. That's how we prioritise our tax regime. We are very much in favour of making major changes in today's depreciation system – also in the rate and the balancing group mentioned by the representative – but we have chosen to give priority to balancing group d, which runs on machines, and which is perhaps the most important one. It was also part of the action package for the current year. So we don't disagree that these are measures that help. As far as agriculture is concerned, all our other tax-related cuts will also help the farmer and those living in District Norway. When we remove the property tax, it will mean something. When we want to step down and remove the wealth tax – as we agree with the Christian People's Party to remove, at least on working capital – it will also help farmers and self-employed people. We also agree – and we propose – that we remove the inheritance fee. So we are doing a number of actions that would make Norwegian farmers, who are self-employed, much more free to cope with their own everyday lives in relation to the business they run.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e450	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e453	When we were together one year ago to discuss the 2009 budget, the financial crisis was on the agenda. The debate was very serious, and it was marked by uncertainty as to how the financial crisis would impact on the Norwegian economy. Today, we are pleased to say that Norway has come through the financial crisis better than most of us feared. Unemployment has risen less than predicted before the summer, and growth in the economy is expected next year. It has been acting in good cooperation between big business, government and the Bank of Norway. This has helped to improve Norway’s response to the crisis. At the same time, it has become evident that Norway and the Norwegian economy face three major challenges. The first challenge is that we can see a stronger two-way economy, where the protected sector and the public sector are doing well, and where those who work there will experience great job security and better economy in the year we go into. On the other hand, many local communities, especially along our coast, live by competitive activities, will experience job uncertainties, that many companies will go bankrupt, and that people will lose their jobs. The manager of Norway’s Bank, Svein Gedrem, has warned of what he calls Dutch sick people, a situation in which the protected sector is emerging, and where the competitive sector is being reduced. The second main challenge is that expenditure growth is out of control. Economic policy is not sustainable. When we spend more money on our common wealth today, it means less to tomorrow. In that case, whether taxpayers pay more or beneficiaries of well-being in the future, less. The choices don't get any easier by pushing them in front of them; they're going to get tougher. The third major challenge is that we see quite a hole in our welfare community, where others fall outside. Behind the billions of people who are in the process of falling out, or who have fallen out of the labour market – not all because of illness, some because of lack of skills, or because they did not get help in time to get back to work, come back to the labour market. It is also possible to address this challenge. These three main challenges characterise the political debate, but are almost absent from the Government's draft budget. During this fall, government councils and red-green rhetoric have been replaced. Before the elections, we were told by then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen that it was not to be on the money, and the political success was very much measured by the size of the appropriations. Now we hear from the new Minister of Finance that we need to tighten up the lifeline, and the new Minister of Industry says it can't go on like before. I agree with Giske and with Sigbjørn Johnsen. A new course is needed to secure jobs and create lasting well-being. The government's draft budget for 2010 is too expansive for a period when interest rates and crown prices are rising and the financial crisis continues to deteriorate in the export companies – companies that have both increased taxes and weakened competitiveness each year under red-green governance. Too much money is spent next year. The government's own figures show that the economic space has been used up far by 2018. I think that's serious, because the decade we're going into should be the decade when we really should invest in the future – in infrastructure, in knowledge, in research – to have a robust business life, so that we can bear the welfare challenges that come after 2020, where there are more people who need to bear a heavier burden, because there are more pensioners and fewer people of working age. The right considers that the policy needs to be reformed. You can choose to start with a gradual change in 2010, or you can choose to push the problems ahead until 2011. We're taking the first steps in this budget. We're reducing oil money consumption by 2.3 billion in 2010. But what is more important is that we promote reform proposals that can contribute to the reduction of oil money consumption every year so that there can be greater room for investment and greater opportunities to bear the welfare of the future. We provide greater room for growth in the private sector — yes, we reduce public spending on business transfers and on administration to lower taxes, so that there is more room for job growth in the private sector. We believe that there must be greater room for job creators in the private sector. It's worth your while to work. We need to ensure greater growth in the private sector. This also meant the current Minister of Finance when he was the last Minister of Finance, at the beginning of the 1990s, when he pointed out that it was not in the public sector that the challenges were in terms of job security. It was in the private sector. At that time, Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen argued about the need for lower taxes on wealth in order to safeguard small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that Sigbjørn Johnsen will bring with him the current red-green government on such a policy, because it is necessary to lower taxes in order to secure jobs. The right turns public expenditure from operation and administration to investment in knowledge and in transport. That's what we promised in the election campaign, and we're going to do in this budget by putting on a level playing field for the teachers, and by facilitating road construction. We promote proposals to get more people from social security to work by making increased demands for activity and targeting measures for people who fall outside. We are promoting proposals for reforms to contribute to a more efficient and less over-administrative state. These are reforms we think are important to get started now, so that we can get more room in the budgets in the future. And we are promoting proposals to ensure both diversity and the spread of power. We believe that the welfare tasks facing Norwegian society must be resolved in an interaction between public and private actors. It is a public task to ensure a decent care for the elderly, modern hospitals and good schools, but it cannot be a public task to decide that it is only the state and the public that are to solve the problems. There we want an interaction between public and private and non-governmental organisations. So some words about the matter that seems to split the government and collect the opposition. The biodiesel business is about more than a few tax credits in 2010. It's about the predictability we're going to give to those who are ready to invest billions of dollars in green technology, in green jobs and in environmentally friendly fuels. It is about the confidence that consumers should have in us as politicians – consumers who want to act environmentally friendly, with which many have already started. I agree with Mr Micaelsen’s representative when he says that ‘polluter pays’. Yes, the polluter has to pay. But it must also mean that those who pollute less have to pay less. As politicians, we also need to facilitate the entry of new environmentally friendly products into the market, as we did when we were to get more people to choose unleaded petrol. Then we lowered the fee on unleaded petrol to make the environmentally friendly choice more favourable to consumers. The paradox is that today we are going to adopt something that the Storting is really opposed to. In the last few days, I have had a lot of problems finding someone on the Stortinget who really is in order to impose a tax on environmentally friendly diesel. The Labour Party is drumming this matter through, and then I hear the Workers' Party Party Secretary say on radio that the Workers' Party is an open, listening and democratic party. Well, in this case you have well shown everything else. You've shown a pretty high degree of arrogance of power. What I think is the problem with this case is that you make it harder for companies to have confidence in predictability, and you make it harder for consumers to choose environmentally friendly. That's why we want you to get out of the trenches and try to find compromises. And that's why we're putting on the table proposals that say yes, Stoltenberg is going to keep the tax on the biodiesel blended into normal diesel, while the environmentally friendly product biodiesel, which is going to outstrip the pollutant, is going to drop the tax. I think that is a compromise to which the Government should also say yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e489	It'll give rise to a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e492	A lot could have been said about the last thing Jan Tore Sanner talked about, the biodiesel business. I just notice that the Right with both rhetoric and suggestions now moves away from the polluter-pays principle, because no matter how you turn it around, it becomes cheaper to drive a car if you do what the Right proposes. But leave it. I believe that the representative Sanner started his post very well. He describes the challenges facing the Norwegian economy and working life. Like Mr Sanner, I am concerned about expenditure growth, the situation in the export industry, the workplaces, etc. But I think it's going to be something special that right-wing government parties are going to teach about oil money when you put just $2 billion below in your own alternative budget. It's 0.01 pst. GDP next year, so it's marginal. In addition, the Right has run the country many times and knows that many of the containment proposals in their own budgets – among others. the agricultural agreement must be terminated in the middle of the year – it is not the way to govern the country. How does the representative, Mr Sanner, feel that their budget is better able to safeguard the interests of the Norwegian economy than ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e501	I explained that in my article. We are taking important steps to better facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises, for the value-creating sector. And we're starting the reduction in oil money usage. As a conservative politician, I am not a follower of the sudden throws, but of gradual changes. What we're proposing is a careful reduction in oil money consumption to next year. Then we are promoting a series of reform proposals to contribute to a less over-administrative state, which will help us reduce public spending, which will help bring down the food transfers. If we are to be able to achieve a more sustainable economy, we must both reduce public expenditure growth and stimulate growth in the private sector. It is the last working party that is fundamentally failing, because what they are doing in the 2010 budget is actually picking up the last proposals that were directed at private enterprises, among other things. better depreciation rules for the currently struggling industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e510	Jan Tore Sanner said something else that is not right: the taxes have to go down to preserve Norwegian jobs. I do not agree with that. I would like to challenge the representative, Mr Sanner, on how he thinks it might be that over four years, Norway with a red-green government, where we have repeatedly heard of anti-tax proposals for small and medium-sized enterprises, has to reintroduce the stock discount into the wealth tax, among other things. The right-hand side suggests, and that leads to people with 3 million. Tax relief in the 70 000 SEK class – that is classic Right-wing policy – can have higher economic growth than our countries of cooperation, that we are in position. 10 of 186 countries in the world where it is best to conduct business, with such a tax policy? It almost sounds like we can only close the door and throw the key if the government's tax arrangements are adopted. All the other reports say it's the exact opposite. How does the Right-Representative Truer explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e517	When the budget was presented, I got big headlines saying that Norway is a good country to live in. I'd like to repeat that. Norway is a good country to live in. At the same time, I am concerned that we are in the process of getting a two-fold share of the Norwegian economy, where the competitive sector is struggling. There is no doubt that in a situation where the market is going up, businesses can tolerate very high taxes. However, in a situation where the market is falling, it is obvious that the companies that have become less competitive each year with red-green governance, the companies that have received higher taxes each year with red-green governance, are more vulnerable. I note that the current Minister of Finance obviously agrees more with the Right than with the Chairman of the Financial Committee, at least the 1993 edition of Sigbjørn Johnsen, where he argued for lower taxes on wealth in order to secure jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. I forgot to do it instead, so let me deal with the proposals that the Right has promoted in the financial position and here in the Stortinget, either alone or with other parties, that are not already taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e526	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e529	In the draft budget that we have presented, we have a comprehensive transformation of the value of the equation on housing. That proposal has been welcomed by all the parties here on Stortinget, from the Progress Party to the Left, and of course by ourselves, SV, who have presented it – except for the Right. Right is not included. The conversion of the value of the equation into the property tax will mean that all, most people have to pay less property taxes, and a few people have to pay more. In Oslo, I guess we're talking about that 92 pst. is equal to or less. It's a conversion that's deeply fair, because today you have an apartment on Frogner that will have a market value of 19 million. kr, the apartment will have an equation value of approximately NOK 200000, while an apartment on the east edge with a market value of less than SEK 3 million. kr, will receive a significantly higher Equation Tariff. Jan Tore Sanner, why don't you join the fair conversion that we propose?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e534	It's simply because the right is against the property tax. We're against property taxes on businesses and jobs, and we're against the property tax on housing. What the Government is now proposing is replacing one unfair system with another unfair system. There are many examples of unfairness in the new system as well. We see no reason to agree to adopt a new unfair system to replace another one. Secondly, it is also that with the system we are now creating, where all the country's owners have to report to the state how large they have, what kind of housing it is, and when the housing was built, the government makes something that can be a real dairy cow for the future for red-green politicians who want to gradually increase the housing tax even more. We know that the representative Heikki Holmås really wants the owners to pay more. It doesn't want to be right. We want to escalate the wealth tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e542	This isn't right, it's completely wrong. Overall, we give a tax relief in the wealth tax to make sure that the conversion we're making is actually a tax relief for most of the people who have a dwelling today. But I notice that the Right's sense of justice is that people who live in $20 million Frogner apartments and people who live in expensive villas are going to get away with a low wealth tax, while people who live on the east side of several fairer apartments are going to pay a lot more in property taxes. It's a little strange that Jan Tore Sanner says that one has a goal of removing the property tax, when in the four years they've been in position, not one of the state budgets has the ability to eliminate the property tax. So, over the four years they've been in government before, they haven't been able to get rid of the property tax at all. Then it's strange that they have a measure that's so big and so they're completely impotent in their implementation of this goal. It certainly shows something about that they are more to take care of their nuclear electors in Inner Frogner and in Bærum than to provide justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e549	The last thing I didn't think was a very serious entry in this discussion. When the Right wants to remove the property tax, it is because we want to secure jobs in Norway. During the summer and autumn, I have traveled from business to business, which has told me how they must now drain their business for capital to send tax money into the state – to Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg – money that could have been used to secure the jobs. That's what this is all about. The representative Holmås is trying to get the debate on property taxes to be about some landlords at Frogner. That's not what this is about. It's about jobs, it's about securing jobs in Norway. We propose in our alternative budget to cut the property tax by DKK 2.5 billion. That means we have the opportunity to remove it in four years. That is what we believe to be the right and necessary measure. I record that the current Minister of Finance, when he was Minister of Finance last time, agreed with the Right that reducing taxes on wealth is important in securing jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e558	We know about taxes on wealth and the right. What is not said is that if the property tax is removed from the right, it will be the same system in Norway as in all other Western countries, namely property taxes, which are even more unfair, and which are even stronger than what the right here says. But there's something that the Right does not say. I want to draw attention to Innst. 2 S, page 106, where the Right and Total Opposition have a note and a proposal regarding 2nd generation biofuels. It's a direct transcript of a lobby game, which I've also received. It is not directly trusting in showing your own ability to get involved in the matter. My question, however, is: the government parties are proposing 140 million. in State aid for investment aid for environmental technologies, for private business, of which 100 million. kr earmarked for 2nd generation biofuels based on wood, i.e. the wood processing industry. Right's not on it. Why doesn't the Right agree with that? Is it because you're too business-neutral in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e565	The right has proposed to increase the appropriations and increase the appropriations more than the Government does for the development of environmental technologies. We believe that this is a good proposal. I am pleased with the commitment of the representative Lundtigen to the further processing of wood to the second generation fuel. That is when appropriations for research and development are good. But the company also needs predictability. It is necessary to have framework conditions in the market to ensure that the product is competitive. Therefore, I had hoped that the representative Lundtigen would have stood by what he has said to the media, namely that he is opposed to imposing this levy on biodiesel. Then we could give predictability and security to invest in green technology, green jobs and environmentally friendly fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e575	I want to start with the big picture, as it was presented by Kristin Halvorsen when she submitted the budget on 13 October. The big picture is about a financial crisis, climate crisis and food crisis created by greed, lack of regulation, unfair allocation of world resources, over-consumption and speculation. Let me just say right away that some people have not learned anything from these crises – the Progress Party continues to criticise us for an ambitious climate policy, not least in front of Copenhagen, while cutting dramatically both in agriculture and aid and in the institutions to ensure control and supervision of financial markets. The ones about it. We have recently found that the Norwegian economy has managed well through the financial crisis, for several reasons, including: because we have pursued an active and expansive counter-cyclical policy, and because we have a comprehensive welfare state and a fairly good regulation of the financial sector. This has led to much lower unemployment in Norway than in other countries it is natural to compare with. Low leave is the most important thing for our government. Nevertheless, parts of the business are still struggling. In addition, we've spent so much oil money to get out of the crisis that we're going to have a big challenge in bringing down oil money. The financial and food crisis remains acute in many countries. The climate crisis will come more and more, and shape and threaten the Norwegian economy perhaps forever. We are now discussing how to get down to the 4 pst. path, because we are responsible for sharing our wealth with future generations. Let's be honest: there are only minimal differences between the batches in terms of oil money usage in this budget. Right, which spends at least – 2.3 billion less than us – was many billion above the government's plans in revised – 6.2 billion, to be accurate – and also proposed 5 billion more in the package of measures last year. In addition, they have many unprofessional cuts, including: they take a few billion in funds from which we are bound under the agricultural agreement. It's not very serious. The Christian People's Party boasts of spending less oil money than we do, but how much? Well, less than 0.1 billion less. There are only symbolic differences here, which at least would not have anything to say for the pressure of the economy. It's the climate crisis that's going to be what's putting us on really big tests ahead, sail if none of us need to imagine the council under water with diving masks, that Maldives' government members recently conducted. They would show how part of the islands of the world will get it if today's unfair emission policy continues by the world's states. We have to ask ourselves sail if we will leave an insurmountable problem to the next generation and let the bill grow larger for every year that goes. This is a bigger problem than getting down to the 4 pst. path. The financial crisis has mobilized violent force from international government leaders. However, the climate crisis is at least an equal threat to the economy and the well-being of the world’s countries and peoples. It is depressing that the Copenhagen negotiations seem to end up in much less binding terms than we had hoped from the Norwegian side. We have worked for a legally binding agreement, put money on the table for rainforest and development, a funding proposal that has received a lot of support – not least from u-country – and offered us to cut 40 pst. of own emissions by 2020, if this could contribute to an offensive agreement. We also recently received a applause for this in Bangkok at a preparatory meeting there. We have also started important work, including: by the Ministry of Finance, under Kristin Halvorsen, to raise awareness of climate change threats to the economy, including the State pension fund – Foreign. It is set up to establish a new investment programme aimed at environmental investment opportunities. The Ministry of Finance participates in an investigation project together with other investors in which an investigator examines how climate challenges can affect financial markets and how investors should act accordingly. Through the exercise of ownership by the Bank of Norway, more clear expectations are placed on the management of climate change by companies in their own activities and in the supply chain. We are now investigating the impact of climate change on global capital markets in general and on the portfolio of the State pension fund — abroad in particular. Hopefully, we will find answers to the impact of the different scenarios on the capital markets and the vulnerability of the funds to climate risk. The Norwegian economy is oil dependent in many ways. We are wise to reduce this dependence and focus on more renewable industries. In North Norway, they have created a small solitude, and are in the process of getting a bet on tidal power, thanks to subsidies from Enova and pressure from, among other things. SV. The supplier industry has good opportunities in the future if we are able to facilitate offshore wind power. About 95 pst. of our national wealth is in our heads and hands of our inhabitants. That's why it's also so important to focus on knowledge and research. After the climate agreement, we have had a huge effort on climate research, and we are now also setting up an environmental technology programme. Next year, we're going to spend billions of dollars on CO2 management, which is an example that we can get a big boost if we set some limits on polluting activities. CO2 management would never have been a bet area for Norway if we had not received the gas power case that put it all on the head in its time. Similarly, it would be unwise to continue to invest in oil extraction in increasingly vulnerable areas along our coasts, instead of changing and showing that we are serious about climate policy. This should also be borne in mind by the Right Party, which warns against oil dependence in the budget setting, while at the same time ensuring the fastest possible opening of our most vulnerable sea areas, including the Baltic Sea. in Lofoten. A CO2 tax on the domestic use of gas for heating in barley is introduced from next year. This is a long-lasting charge that can help to strengthen the competitiveness of bioenergy up against fossil gas. Here, too, I want to say that it's strange to see how the Right Act is, for this fee they want to get away, sail if it's important to strengthen the bioenergy industry. Schools and adulthood are important for the SV and the Government. From the fall of 2010, the teaching hour is increased by one week divided by the first to the seventh step, and we introduce eight hours of free lessons at the SFO for students at the first to fourth level, which was an important election campaign for SV. During the period, we will have one hour of free SFO daily for all children in the first to fourth grade. We have research reports that indicate that participation in the SFO provides better learning. Teaching help is important to provide equal opportunities for all. The SFO is therefore also concerned with dithering. The fact that the Christian People's Party, which says they're concerned with poverty – and defrosting, I think – goes against this, we think it's hard to understand. The government is engaged in maintaining the welfare state as a spice layer, all of which provides the community’s capability. It requires that we have confidence in the tax system and that the most powerful contribute. The wealth tax is the main source of taxes from the wealthiest in society, and it contributes large revenues to the community – just over 12 billion in 2009. Therefore, it is important to maintain wealth as a tax base, but at the same time to make the wealth tax fairer. We have secured a more real and equal valuation of different types of wealth, and we have removed some of the opportunities that the most wealthy had to reduce the wealth tax. In the 2010 budget, we follow up with proposals for new and more accurate rules to value dwellings. As the representative Heikki Holmås was just inside, we can record that it is now only the Right who is able to fight against this proposal, while the others support us in that we need a more fair valuation of dwellings. We think that's good, because the opinions were both strong and uninformed when Kristin Halvorsen presented the budget. A few words in the end about the biodiesel debate that has fallen: When it was clear that it was not possible to reach an agreement on the biodiesel tax, we threw ourselves around from SV to try to find other solutions that will help us to continue to phase biofuels into the Norwegian car park. It is important because, in addition to green industry, which has been the focus of many people, it is also about reducing emissions from road traffic. Then we need an effective instrument, which is a sales obligation, and we also need sustainability criteria to ensure that biofuels are actually sustainable and actually provide climate impact. From 2011, we will bring down Norwegian car fleet emissions by 200,000 tonnes more, given the increase in sales orders that we will now receive. I want to challenge the opposition to support this, so that we get to this ambitious proposal to increase the trading order to 5 pst. and not fly around and spread doubt if this is actually feasible. SFT confirms to us that this is completely possible, but it's ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e614	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e617	It was interesting to listen to the representative Thorkildsen. It almost seemed as if you had come into the annual meeting with Bellona or another environmental organisation, but this is the financial debate. Since she is so happy to talk about climate and the environment, I thought that today you have the chance to turn rhetoric into politics. So I'm going to be very precise and very concrete, so you can't talk about the answer. Does the representative of Thorkildsen think it is right or wrong to impose a tax on biodiesel on 1 January 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e622	However, I would like to start with a little visit to the Progress Party and Tybring-Gjedde, because I really think that the Progress Party should be pleased, if both the climate and the Norwegian economy were taken seriously, that I spent so much time on what is actually the really big challenge that we are facing in a generation of accounts too – or perhaps not least in a generation of accounts. To the question, I've been very clear on it in the media. If Tybring-Gjedde has been joining the media lately, I don't think it comes as a surprise that SV's downhill group had primarily wanted us to reverse parts of the fee that are now being imposed, i.e. the part which relates to pure biodiesel and high-intensity biodiesel. But we have always insisted that it is right to impose a levy on the part dealing with the sales order, because then we have another way to phase in biodiesel. When it became clear that we were not able to do that, we raised ourselves around to increase the sales order, and we have now received that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e629	The Government has presented its ambitions and objectives for this period through its Government Declaration. Among other things, I register that the Government, among other things, will have the primary task of ensuring the opportunities and rights of poor countries to participate in economic development. The government has also stated that economic development should be ensured by strengthening their ability to produce goods for their own use, but also through trade, as we in the Progress Party have said for all years. In order for poor countries to be able to increase trade, especially with the Western world, it is very important to remove the high customs barriers. That is why the Progress Party proposes to eliminate customs duties on goods from all the developing countries in the world. Unfortunately, we're not getting through to this. I noticed that SV is trying to give the impression that you want better conditions for Palestinians. The same applies, for example: U-country Pakistan, your actual candidate from S.B. is going to run an election campaign. But lifting a finger to remove customs duties on goods from these countries, you won't. Why does Inga Marte Thorkildsen not seem to be from e.g. Palestinian administered areas and Pakistan should be exempt from customs duties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e638	Just as far as the Palestinians are concerned, I think there are other instruments that would have a little bit more importance for their development than if we were to eliminate customs. For example, a wall that is highly concrete, could help the representative Rytman to try to do something with it, a wall that is also incompatible with international law. On the issue of customs duties from developing countries in general, we have worked to remove customs duties from the least developed countries and from some of the poorest countries, while some of the developing countries are large producers and will not need the same protection as the least developed countries want. But we also have a responsibility to protect our agricultural industry, and we are concerned about that. It's not just the center party that's concerned about it, we're also concerned about securing it further. We understand that the Progress Party is not concerned about, and that is why we are also proposing to cut NOK 6 billion, I think it is, in the agricultural support for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e646	After SV made a poor choice, it is quite natural that SV loses almost all the important things in the Government. We think that in the Right is quite ok and largely good for the country. In the Financial Committee, we have had almost 100 written feedbacks on the State budget, we have held many hearings with important organisations for the country, and many have hoped that the Storting should improve the Government's budget proposals a little bit. In our entire alternative state budget, the right has worked to create a more environmentally friendly industry, more environmentally friendly fuel and a more environmentally friendly car park – we have a number of proposals for it. The representative of Thorkildsen is aware that an action plan for electrification of road transport has been drawn up in Norway. On the right, follow up this plan, we give NOK 30000 in support of anyone who buys electric cars or rechargeable cars until there are 50,000 such cars in Norway. The question of Thorkildsen and SV is: Why will SV not contribute to an increase in the sale of electric cars by supporting the Right proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e651	I think it is a very bad idea to give cash support to people who initially have enough money to afford to buy a car, in order to choose the most environmentally friendly car. We actually think that's very bad. I have registered that one fortunately from the Christian People's Party, and I also think Right, side has changed some policy, so that now at least one does not go for cash support also to the best fossil cars, which are at least environmentally hostile, to say that, and that one has also gone away from proposals, which are completely meaningless, to allow these cars, which have less than 120 g of CO2 in emissions, to use the collective field, park free of charge – have all the same instruments that we are now using in relation to the electric car in order to phase it in. Cash support for someone who can initially afford to buy a car, what we don't think is the proper use of the community's resources. I also think that some will ask why in all the world they should not get money, for example. for the use of public transport, which is much more environmentally friendly than the use of cars in any case. So I think this is exactly what we should do, and rather look at more accurate tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e663	It is interesting to listen to the representative of Thorkildsen when she boasts of the great environmental ambitions of the Government, especially because Norway in the European context must be said to be a slowdown in national action. I therefore face a more powerful policy. Interestingly, when Erik Solheim was at P4 this week, he said that the directors and industry are leading with high climate ambitions while the politicians are heading for it. It must be said to be a rare moment of self-intelligence from the Council of State. But I also think the representative Thorkildsen has the gift of fear when she says that she hopes the opposition will support the proposal for 5 p.m. incorporation in the case of biodiesel. It's in the climate deal. It's been decided. The only thing the prime minister has notified is that it's going to come a little later than he thought. But there is a proposal for voting in the hall today on high incorporation of biodiesel, for which Thorkildsen has just said she is in favour. Will the representative of Thorkildsen vote in favour of this proposal? If not, why?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e674	I think I would say that the representative Astrup is excused as a new representative when he believes that it has already been agreed to increase the sales order to 5 pst. That's not true. The representative has to go back to what's in the climate agreement. There was an intention to increase the turnover obligation to 5 pst. This year, but this was pushed on as early as December 2008. The climate agreement was concluded on 17 January 2008. In May of the same year, his colleague travelled to Astrup, Dagfinn Højbrätten from the Christian People's Party, a party with which he likes to cooperate closely, an interpellation here, and he also wrote a chronicle in which he asked us to scrape the entire biofuel effort. The right also had an interpellation in May the same year when you raised the question about, among other things. food crisis. It's legitimate, but in the light of the situation that was, you chose to push this, and it was all agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e681	There was a lot to do here, first the government's foundation for an increase in the rate of biodiesel in the state budget that lies here. So the Government shows the climate agreement, where one agrees to escalate the trading order to 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. What Thorkildsen said before, I'll at least claim to be a good bluff. When we first talk about sales restrictions, I'm going to say that in diesel, one blends in biodiesel, and in petrol, one mixes in bioethanol. Bioethanol is known as alcohol. For three years, the industry has been waiting for a clarification on how to import alcohol without having to pay an alcohol tax. They've got lumber and lumber. We have done the same in the Christian People's Party, most recently in 2008, when we were promised a clarification during October. But the clarification came first three weeks ago. Of course, the clock of damage has not chosen the industry to invest money. They don't know where the government will jump. Therefore, they now say that it will take 18 months for tankers to be in place. What has taken so long, and how should the Government achieve its goal when they have not achieved any clarifications before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e688	Firstly, it has not been in the climate agreement to introduce 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. It's been an intention, it's also, after you pushed what was originally, to introduce it in 2009, and it turned out to be impossible, among other things. for the reasons on which the representative has been involved, but also because there was uncertainty as to the contribution of biofuels to, among other things. the food crisis situation. That being said, I had a discussion today with, among other things. The Norwegian Petroleum Institute and the Right, relate whether it is possible and realistic to get 5 pst. from 2011. It's possible. The SFT confirms that it is possible today. One of the things that you might have to press the industry to do until you get the ethanol infrastructure in place is to give you a better price for high blending of biofuels and pure biodiesel, so that you actually get to sell it. It's the industry that's out of line, but it's completely possible to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e695	The representative of Thorkildsen is reasonably concerned with the environment, and I want to challenge her on something that hasn't been the topic here yet. This applies to investment in rail and public transport. The reason for this might be that there is a long way to go until the Government's own promise in NTP and Soria Moria is reached. The SV programme even promises that ‘SV will escalate investments in the railway to DKK 10 billion per year’. If this is to succeed, I recommend the representative to vote in favour of the Left's proposal instead of the Government's proposal, but it will probably not be. We have also proposed a tax shift in the Left-wing programme of about DKK 4 billion, and that is what SV wants. My question to the representative of Thorkildsen is: Hasn't SV had an impact on its railway policy and on the transition to more green tax policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e704	Both when we were outside the government, and after we got into government, we have had an influence on transport policy and how much money we are going to spend on rail. We made a settlement before we got into government, which we continued in government, and we got with the new national transport plan an escalation, a historic increase to the railway. So both Left and SV are especially concerned with trains and the railway – and that's good. I think it's nice that the left would still have pulled on the railway. We also want to – in alliance with others on the outside who are concerned about this. Also in the climate agreement – which I want to draw up – there was an increase to the railway that was already in the first year of the budget. It is true that we are not going to vote in favour of the Left's draft budget. Then, among other things, we had to: have also voted in favour of a tax bill for the richest in Norway – those with more than 3 million. gross income NOK 70 000. We do not want that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e716	In the financial debate, we will see the budget in a context where we too look ahead and invite to debate what the parties want with Norway, and the place of Norway in the international community in the future. In the debate on 12 November this year on the economic policy of the Government and the practice of the 4 p.m. rule of action, I clarified the main line of the Central Party in the economic debate. In this brief five-minute speech, I would therefore like to focus on the most important issue in today's public debate, namely climate and biodiesel. This is necessary; the issue concerns much less than a thousandths of the budget. First of all, 1 litre of mineral oil yields about 3 kg of carbon dioxide during combustion. Only plants over water and underwater organisms bind carbon dioxide or – in a practical language suit – eat carbon dioxide. My profession is something so rare in this room as being a farmer. Several in my home country, Buskerud – especially Left leaders – believe that a farmer is incapacitated when he or she talks about understanding and exploiting photosynthesis, thus producing renewable carbon as a vitally important response to the challenges of adding less CO2 from fossil carbon to the atmosphere. I believe that we, who have our experience and education in biology, are the hafile in this matter. Politics must be based on professional fact. Then political discretion and vision are put on this basis, so that the job of the elected people – through a political change of words – is to propose and adopt the societal solutions of the future based on the needs and ways of life that one believes give people a safe life. This is leadership responsibility – just as we in my culture are going to deliver the farm in better condition than when we took over. Renewable carbon from plants may replace fossil carbon from oil, gas and coal in almost all products containing carbon. In all our houses and clothes and in all our technical equipment that we surround with, we have carbon. This is important to everyone. So by processing plants and trees into these necessary products, we can become carbon neutral. At the same time, it provides the basis for long value chains called green business, because we are processing renewable natural resources. For this necessary shift in societal governance — in order to reduce our real emissions of CO2 to air in practice — different and new instruments are needed. Research is crucial as continuous, long-term investment. Project and development must follow. New forms of production must then be supported by an active country, through state grants for investment, in order to reduce the risk to private operators, and thus to make it economically viable for those who will invest in the future. Secondly, it is necessary to facilitate a market that is growing for future environmentally friendly products. In terms of both investment and the market — which is maritimely closely linked to each other — there is a need for any political leadership to make a strong demand for predictability. Biodiesel as a fuel for internal combustion engines in vehicles requiring high power is undisputed in the foreseeable future. In the financial situation of the red-green government parties, 100 million. kr earmarked for the conversion of our wood processing industry, so that we can start building several plants for 2nd generation biofuels based on wood. In the wood processing language, this is referred to as 2nd generation biodiesel or timber diesel and bioethanol or wood spirits. This is good, and it's a cautious start to a new epoch from the Government. These products are far more expensive to produce — everyone who has experienced the facts knows — than to bottle and refine mineral oil, but at the same time they have a greenhouse gas reduction effect of about 90 pst. Therefore, both consumers and countries need to take increased costs – state in an introduction phase and consumer in an ordinary operating and market situation. To develop a market for e.g.: According to the opinion of the Centre Party, biodiesel is the best way to use several instruments, both lower fees and incorporation requirements. On this basis, the Center Party and I have worked for another solution in the development of the biodiesel market. Everyone here is familiar with that from the public word change. When we do not take up or vote for other proposals here today, it is because we know that today's red-green government and its entire budget are a better option for our social values than a government led by – or supported by – the Right. However, a government that does not arouse enthusiasm and hope for the future of the many propagandists of the alliance will be wriggling rather soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e756	The representative just wanted to keep the post within the speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e762	Lundtigen has an exposure to biodiesel. It says respect. Something that doesn't stand so much respect for, is how he's dealt with that commitment. He was concerned with the farmer’s stability when it came to carbon and green business. The biodiesel management does not create precisely predictability. It scares investors away from investing in something that is a huge need – possibly with the exception of the investor and the farmer Lundtigen. Investors are therefore being scared away from investing in green technology in the future. My question is: Is Lundtigen comfortable with the way the Labour Party in the government – and not least in Stortinget – has run this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e769	Since I had a little bad time until the end of my main post, I will repeat it – so that it sits well: ‘On this basis, the Centre Party and I have worked for another solution in the development of the biodiesel market. Everyone here is familiar with that from the public word change. When we do not take up or vote for other proposals here today, it is because we know that today's red-green government and its entire budget are a better option for our social values than a government led by – or supported by – the Right." That's the point of a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e781	In the election campaign, Per Olaf Lundtigen from the Centre Party, together with his famous twig, argued for better framework conditions for increased production of 2nd generation biofuels. The dispute has even brought Lundtigen here in the Stortinget eloquent chair. I see the twig is no longer here with Lundtegen. Government Parties are now proposing the introduction of the biodiesel levy, as proposed in the State budget. I wonder if Lundtigen can understand that very many voters and businesses – especially in Lundtigens and my county, Buskerud – feel directly deceived by Lundtigen and the government parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e788	I can't believe they're tricked by Lundtigen. Mr Lundtigen has argued in the public change of words and from Stortinget's pulpit for his and the party's point of view, and at the same time I have made it quite clear exactly why we vote like we do here today. I can assure the representative, Rytman, that I am going to take that prognosis several times, because I notice in the public vocabulary that it is a frightening lack of knowledge as to how to solve the climate issue. Almost no one knows that one litre of diesel gives, at the end of use in an internal combustion engine, 3 kg of carbon dioxide. And there's almost no one who knows that the only organism that we have over water that can bind CO2 or eat CO2 is green plants. Its greener plants are, the more of them it is, the more of the products we use in our lives, the better it gets. In view of the future, I wonder if the Progress Party could soon understand biology as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e799	After running several election campaigns with Per Olav Lundtägen in Buskerud, I have learned a little about biology and photosynthesis from the representative Lundtägen. It's hard not to learn when you hear about it in all articles. [[Laughter]] Nevertheless, it must be premature for the representative of Lundteigen today to have as his sole straw that the government's proposal is bad – as he says. But a government led by the Right – he thinks right here, I see; we were supposed to lead a government, and that’s great – had been a worse option. He says to Drammen's Official Journal yesterday that "he will analyse the contents of Stoltenberg's play before deciding what he does when the Stortinget votes on Thursday". So now he's concluded, but I haven't heard the analysis yet. How do Lundtigen Stoltenberg's performances analyse interference and no fee exemption?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e806	I think my post was reasonably clear at that point. The analysis is that biodiesel is too poor, and it is different from what the Centre Party Group wanted. But in the situation you're in, the choice is easy when the option is a government derived from, or with the support of, the party Right. I've previously said in the line change after the representative, Sanner, that right-wing abilities don't even have the sea to write a note that's on his own, but only takes a blue copy of what a lobby organization plays, and that should be good for the representative of Greece to be able to correct, if he's learned biology through many meetings. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e811	Now I understand at least why the representative of Helleland is light awake every time we discuss the biological cycle in the Right Magnification Group – he's very involved. But it must be a small patch on the wound for Lundtegen that research is to replace the unprofitableness of the product. This will mean that there will not be much investment in biodiesel in Norway in the future, as long as the tax decision that is there today is maintained. I also thought that I would turn it over to another tax decision that is inside today, and that is the garbage burning fee. Now that trucks are no longer going to drive on biodiesel, it is no longer very climate friendly to drive all the garbage to Sweden. We know that there is a tax decision there that will allow about 15 000-20,000 trucks to go to Sweden with garbage from Norway, and many waste incineration plants in Norway will be shut down. Does Lundtigen think that is also a sensible climate decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e818	I do not very much appreciate being presented with statements that are directly incorrect. The representative, Gundersen, says here that the centre party is responsible for research replacing the unprofitableness of production, which is factually wrong. What I said was, we're going to have research, we're going to have development, we're going to have investment aid, and we're going to have a market. That's exactly what I said, it's connected as a whole, and I'm proud of what the government's got, that's 100 million. kr earmarked for 2nd generation biofuels. That's what they say. Furthermore, waste incineration. Government parties have taken that challenge seriously. That's a complicated question. It has been very difficult for us at the hearing to get an overview of what is actually happening, because what we've got in the garbage industry, it's garbage contractors who buy and sell garbage, which is such an inconspicuous terrain that it's necessary to look at it until the revised national budget. It is a really predictable treatment of an important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e825	The harvest budget has taught us a lot about biology and a good deal about democracy. In yesterday's Evening Post, Harald Stanghelle wrote the following: ‘The debate on the biodiesel tax has evolved into an absurd political theater.’ I would also like to congratulate the Centre Party on the fact that, according to the evening post today, they have now been in government 42 days longer than the Christian People's Party. After all, the Christian People's Party also has experience sitting in coalition governments with different programs, making compromises and then standing united behind the proposals that are being presented. The new work from the Center Party here is that a distinction has been made between sitting in government and taking responsibility for the whole thing. Lundtigen has clearly stated in the media that this case is formally in Stortinget, in fact the matter has been in the Government. The question for Lundtigen is therefore: which parts of the budget we are adopting today can the centre party stand behind, and what parts can the centre party not stand behind? There is a useful clarification in the light of the opinions related to the biodiesel tax in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e839	Obviously, the Central Party is behind all the proposals that we are voting for today. There's no doubt about it. It's only through a reconciliation that shows which proposals you're behind. However, the representative, Håbreek, is the extent to which the Magnitude today has the power to change in relation to what comes from the Government. It's no surprise when I now say that the power of change that the Storting has in this budget is considerably less than the power of change it has had in previous budgets. It's the Center Party and I the first to complain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e846	Then we have been told that all the government parties are behind it. Some are relatively far behind. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e850	Now there's an opportunity for me to follow up the previous question. Here is my specific question: Which of the following proposals, which have been programmed by the Centre Party, will Lundtigen and the Centre vote for today: raising the free-card limit, raising the BSU limit, increasing depreciation rates for buildings, using tax policies to promote the sale of biofuels, reducing business fees, extending the tax ceiling for FUNN and giving tax deductions to people investing in newly established knowledge establishments. All of this is the proposal of the Centre Party. What proposals will the Central Party be voting for today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e855	Based on what I have said, and if she had followed along, such a question should be unnecessary, but I will answer. It's, like, short and simple, nobody, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e860	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e863	When the president summed up the change of lines with the representative Lundteg, he said that “some people are relatively far behind” the government’s proposal. Then it must also mean that someone is pushed in the background. That, I think, is a good summary of what we have seen about one particular matter in this budget, namely the biodiesel tax. I'll come back to that. It was also strong to hear that Lundtägen regretted the process that had been on the part of the Government in that particular case. If we go back one year, the main problem was when this budget for the current year was dealt with, that interest rates were going down and that we were facing a financial crisis. The picture is quite another one a year later. The interest rate is very low, and we are about to get out of a financial crisis, perhaps. As others have pointed out, there are niches in the economy, and not least export-oriented industry requires political vigilance, so that we have framework conditions that ensure that jobs can survive and not be laid down. Now, when we spend 150 billion pounds of oil, 50 billion dollars more than the mechanical rule of action, it's clear that you have to ask yourself how we spend this money. Do we use them to calculate a large number of budgets, or do we use them correctly? For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to get a more social budget in place through the treatment we have had in Stortinget. I must also say that more than 100 hearing bodies and a change in the budget of 40 million. kr gives rise to certain reflections. It is quite right that Lundtigen was involved: never has so little been moved in budgetary terms. For our part, it has not least been important to have a stronger fight against poverty. We are increasing the appropriations for poverty measures in Norway by DKK 1 billion. It is essential to focus on getting people back to work, targeting those who need the most, getting more social assistance rates, more intervention sites, lower self-esteem for those who are low-paid. The introduction of income-rated parental benefit into kindergartens will also make a positive contribution in this way. We have also been concerned that we had to do something about the real government cut off the world's poor. It is a fact that with the Government's proposal and the decision we are making here today, poverty-oriented aid goes down. Growing up for children and young people is perhaps the best investment we can make in the future for our welfare society. Then, in the Christian People's Party, we have a different profile than the Government. We increase the one-time benefit by birth and adoption. We want to give parents who have not earned parental rights a better chance to spend time with their child in the first place. We are increasing the cash support, which has now been on site for too long. We want to strengthen the prevention work aimed at children and young people through the strengthening of child protection and family protection. In the case of school, we're betting more on the teacher than the hours. More teachers give better quality. It's just looking at Finland to see that it's a better way to go than just talking about increasing the number of hours. In the election campaign, the Christian People's Party presented an action plan for life support. This plan is being followed up in our alternative budget with proposals for increased appropriations in a number of areas, such as: the construction of 500 more hospitals than the Government's proposals, and more hospice sites for dying patients. So we're going to take 100 million. for those who need treatment for their drug problems. So it's still the way this government chooses to sit still and watch the institutions shut down, while many are waiting for treatment. It's an unworthy situation that should have ended a long time ago. Then you're not just going to distribute money, but you're going to create something in this country as well. We want a change in depreciation rates, we want to halve the employer's fee for apprentices, and we want to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme, all in order to contribute to growth in business, which in turn provides jobs and in the long term also more tax credits. We have also put in a black economic package to ensure that the community gets what is necessary, by strengthening both the Ecocrime, the tax haven and the customs tariff. So to the individual issue in the state budget that has created the greatest debate both inside and outside these walls, namely the government's proposal to remove the exemption from the car diesel tax for biodiesel. The proposal has also created an enormous debate within the Government. There is no real majority for this charge – it has been clarified by the debate. The centre party and SV openly say that they are opposed, while the Workers' Party is standing on it, at least outwardly. The parties to the Government vote today for a fee that the majority of the majority of the Grand Duchy opposes. It is a cross of thought, not least in relation to democratic principles of popular rule, power distribution and parliamentaryism. So to the realities of the matter. The Christian People's Party believes it is important for our credibility that we are able to implement national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions from road traffic increased on average by 2 pst. every year since 1990, and today stands for 20 p.m. of the total greenhouse gas emissions. Increased use of biofuels is one of the simplest and cheapest climate measures in the transport sector in the short term. On 3 December 2008, the parties to the climate agreement agreed that the marketing obligation should be increased to 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. The climate agreement also requires further work on the green conversion of vehicle-related taxes and charges and other regulation promoting low-emission and zero-emission options. In our opinion, today these points are broken in the agreement, and without talking to the parties to the agreement in advance. What is perhaps most surprising is that the Prime Minister is trying to produce the horse trade to sharpen the sales order to 3.5 pst. in 2010 as a winner of the SV and the Centerpartiet. But the government's justification for the government's bill in the state budget shows that the parties to the climate deal agree on 5 pst. in 2010. So the truth is that the government is weakening the investment in biofuels in two areas at the same time. They thwart the market with fees and weaken concluded agreements to tighten the sales ban. With this, we can get job closures. Planned billion investments in Follum are absent, Schenker, Posten, Router and others are venting the investment in high incorporation of biodiesel on their vehicles. The working party has started to argue over the last few weeks with a lack of climate impact and food safety considerations as the basis for the biodiesel tax. This argument is not to be found in the rationale of the state budget, but has apparently become very important now. From the Christian People's Party we have been concerned about this issue. In spring 2008, Dagfinn Højbråten promoted an interpellation in which he addressed the ethical challenges of large rural areas being taken out of food production to produce biodiesel. We challenged the Government to immediately establish a reporting system with sustainability criteria for biofuels pending the EU-notified certification scheme. This debate in which the Christian People's Party was strongly involved provided the basis for the agreement reached between the Parties to the Climate Change Agreement on 3 December 2008. It is stated that sustainability criteria will be introduced in 2010. But there we have not seen anything from the Government in that way, and they will not vote in favour of the proposal on this today either. Finally, oil companies have now been blamed for not being able to achieve a trading order, as it was previously produced today. Then we must remember that when, on 9 October 2008, the Minister of Finance asked for regulations on how this was to be done, she replied that it would come in October 2008, probably one year ago. It came three weeks ago, over one year after what you said. Then it's no wonder that oil companies don't understand how to live up to expectations you can't, when the government doesn't deliver. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e901	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e906	The Christian People's Party calls its alternative budget 'More Social Economy', and it wants a more social budget, as the representative pointed out in his statement. And it is gratifying to see that the Christian People's Party, unlike the other bourgeois parties, does not have tax relief for the richest at the top of its priority list. Will the Christian People's Party guarantee that, in any government cooperation with the Right, they will also go for a more social economy, as indicated by the title of the alternative budget, rather than tax relief for those who already have the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e913	I understand that the Irene Johansen of the Workers' Party is concerned about the future, and I can assure you that the Christian People's Party in any government cooperation will be crystal clear that we are going to have a social economy. That's what we're going to do – whether it's going to be with one or the other. But I think maybe there's more reason to go into the budget we're going to adopt today for 2010, to look at where to improve the social protection system for 2010. Unfortunately, it has not been possible because the government parties have had no room for action to do anything, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e918	The next representative is Torfinn Opheim. – It might have been less confusing for the representatives in the room if the one who is to respond to the reply is ingesting the pulpit that is usually used for it. I fully understand that the representative Syversen often takes a reply, but today he will also reply to a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e921	First of all, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party is the opposition party which has a draft budget that is closest to the government's draft budget for money use. I believe the difference between the proposals of the government parties and the proposals of the Christian People's Party are under 1 pst. In it it is that the distance from the other opposition parties must be greater. At the same time, the leader of the Christian People's Party, along with other party leaders, has recently gone out and speculated that today's government has a short life span. That means that the Christian People's Party will probably be involved in forming an alternative to today's government. My question is then, in relation to the other draft budgets that have been presented: what budget proposal will the Christian People's Party claim to be closest to the draft budget of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e928	First of all, it's a little unusual for me to look to the right when I'm going to respond to lines from the Workers' Party and SV, so I'm sorry! With regard to the draft budgets, which Mr Opheim had in mind, it is clear that we are basing our own draft budget on promoting it in opposition, just as the Labour Party has done. I am pleased that it has been registered that the Christian People's Party has submitted a social budget. It's a nobility mark for us. What we would like was – not least when you see the fact that institutions dealing with addicts are shut down – that it was possible to talk to the majority parties about this. But the door has been closed when we wanted to talk about it, about biodiesel or what it might be. I would therefore like to reply by saying that the day the Labour Party here in Stortinget, although they are in government, is interested in improving the budget, I hope we can do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e937	With the government's big effort on full child care coverage, I think it's a little strange to record that the Christian People's Party repeatedly calls for an increase in contact support. Cash support is a dead end in Norwegian policy. It is the right-hand side's payment that you should not avail yourself of a public offer. I believe that full child care coverage, which provides safety and predictability for families with young children, is more important than cash support. Freedom of choice is to allow both sexes to participate in a professional life — have a real wage income and earn their own pension rights. In addition to being gender-sensitive, cash support is an anti-inclusion measure because we know that most people receiving cash support have a minority background. Does the representative of Syversen recognise the problem of continuing the cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e947	Now the representative speaks from a government that actually has cash support on the program next year. It is therefore a violent criticism of the self-government representative now delivering. As far as I know, the Centre Party is also – commendably – still a clear defender of the freedom of choice of families. I am fully aware that there is a big difference between SV and the Christian People's Party in family policy. SV will control others. They know what's best for families, and they're not willing to have some kind of freedom of choice. The Christian People's Party believes that kindergartens, but also cash support, are important to give freedom of choice, which means that parents themselves can choose the form of care that is right for them. We don't have to take that choice for them – on the contrary, that trust should be shared by the parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e954	Today’s Evening Post states that the Center Party now has more seniority than the Christian People’s Party in government offices. When one looks at the Christian People's Party's draft budget, which is so close to the government's budget, one would almost believe that it is a desire to get credited government seniority from the opposition's position. For there is no doubt that this budget is closer to the Government's budget than it is to the Right and Advance Party budget. For the government parties, this budget is a major first step towards achieving the objectives of Soria Moria II. If I were to try to sum up what is in the Christian People's Party budget, the government is going to achieve the goals of Soria Moria II in four years. One might get the impression that the Christian People's Party aims to achieve the goals of Soria Moria II in three years. My question is: Does the Christian People's Party still feel at home in companies with the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e961	I understand that there is a certain degree of pride in the number of days you have been in government, so I get to hurry and congratulate the Center Party! I was a little in doubt when I heard the representative from Lundtegen about how well you really felt in government, but after listening to Pollestad, I realize that you still expect to sit there for a while. Christian People's Party is a center party. We have submitted a budget in line with what we said in the election campaign, in line with our programme. I am very pleased that the government parties see that there is a lot of good social policy there that they might have supported themselves, but for which they have unfortunately not had the authority or the framework to do from their heads of government. If this is an attempt to say that we have something to talk about, for example. In order to improve the response to poverty, we would like to join in a conversation about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e968	I will continue where the previous representative from the Senterpartie left off. I'll quote from the financial position. Christian People's Party writes that ‘there is a broad political consensus on very much of the content of the State budget. Many of the priorities that have been made will be agreed by the Christian People's Party.» It's very nice, and it's very good. Then I can quote another party in opposition. The Progress Party writes that: ‘the submitted State budget is not suitable for meeting the challenges facing Norway’. Earlier in the debate, a representative of the Christian People's Party took a line on the agricultural policy area, where we see that the Progress Party wants to cut over NOK 6 billion, and the Right wants to cut over NOK 2 billion, even if the agricultural agreement is concluded. If we read on in the budget, the Christian People's Party wants to increase the aid budget further, even though the Government has increased the aid budget vigorously. How can the Christian People's Party – without going along with the Red-Greens – be able to make an impact on its policies, when we see that the other two parties, the Right and the Advance Party, which are those who have any power in the opposition, fundamentally disagree with the Christian People's Party policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e985	First of all, the increase in aid must be corrected. What's happened is that for the first time in many years, you really cut to the poorest in the world. There should have been much more attention, because it is a great paradox that we should not least cut support for the poorest in Africa. Then it's no big surprise that the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have a slightly different agricultural policy. I guess that's also what was reflected in the succession between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party earlier today. We have had that disagreement, we have it today, and I will not be surprised if it is there in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e992	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e995	Three major challenges requiring national reforms have been identified in the 2009-2013 RP of the Left, which, not least, require a completely different political will to address the major challenges faced by the Government and the government’s budgetary arrangements. These challenges are: taking the step into the low-carbon society to build the knowledge society to reform the welfare society The 2010 alternative budget of the Left is the first significant step towards changing its course in such a direction. We have clear priorities that point out a willingness to bet on the future. We are consistently giving priority to a multi-worker effort, especially in the eco-innovation and climate-friendly business. We do this through a targeted tax system in a more environmentally-friendly and business-friendly direction. We do this through a series of measures to make it more attractive to be self-employed, and we do so with a targeted focus on instruments to stimulate a more environmentally friendly business. Overall, the alternative budget of the Left involves more than DKK 7 billion for various measures to increase employment. Furthermore, the priorities of the left are a strong commitment to innovation, research and higher education. The government is trying as hard as it can, with rhetoric that there has never been any more effort, but the truth is that the government has still not come out of the rest cut that both research, higher education and innovation have found themselves in the last four years. Overall, the Left proposes approx. SEK 2.2 billion in extra measures for a targeted commitment to research, education and innovation. The left also proposes a continuous strengthening and focus on environment and climate-friendly solutions, with a special focus on rail and public transport and a powerful tax shift from red to green taxation. Overall, the Left suggests almost $1 billion more for the railways and 320 million for the railways. kr more for public transport. In addition, the Left proposes a tax shift from red to green taxes of approximately NOK 4 billion. Unfortunately, the government's tax policy is, rather, based on going from green to red tax. And last but not least, the 2010 alternative budget of the Left has targeted efforts against poverty among children and young people. We are proposing various measures that will add up to a total of approximately DKK 1.8 billion compared to the Government's proposals. The main single measure is what everyone agrees on is the best and most effective, but which the Government does not want or will be able to implement, namely to increase social assistance rates up to the level that SIFO believes should be the minimum level. We had a very interesting round here in Stortinget exactly 14 days ago about challenges for the Norwegian economy in the future. Among other things, the Minister of Finance said that only since the perspective communication in 2009 was presented, the need for coverage in a generation context has increased from 3.25 pst. until above 6 pst. by mainland GDP in 2060. This means that, in the longer term, we need to implement measures of this magnitude to limit expenditure in the public sector, or to make things smarter and different, so that things are done more efficiently, or that revenue is increased. What the Minister of Finance really said between the lines is that the state budget that is now receiving a majority is not really well enough adapted to the economic situation and the challenges we are facing. In this way, it becomes like a never so small déjà vu from last year's budgetary procedure, where, as you know, it was announced on the same day that a package of measures would come in a short time, a budget revision. The left has therefore chosen to provide a budget line that, in total, amounts to well over DKK 1 billion less in oil money use than the arrangements of the Government and Government Parties. Together with a net tax relief of 442,5 million. The alternative budget of the Left would appear somewhat less expansive in the Norwegian economy and thus in itself contribute to job security through less pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. Finally, I seem to spend some time commenting on the many and strange explanations of the government's tax on biodiesel, but I get that back to later in the debate. Finally, I will address the proposals to which the Left is co-rapporteur – and which have not already been addressed – or are changed in the vote alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1020	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1025	Half of the property tax is paid by the 2.5 pst. the richest people in Norway. Here, the Left will contribute to the relief of taxation. At the same time, left kindergarten prices are increasing, which will make it more difficult for both children and young children’s parents. Left Cutter in the Cultural Spaserstick, which is an offer aimed at the elderly who otherwise have problems with participation in cultural events, and the Left Cutter in the Fruit and Green System in the School. My question to the representative Tenden is then: Why has the Left chosen to give more priority to the richest at the expense of children and cultural services for the elderly? Is this the contribution of the Left to the renewal of the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1032	I would like to go into each of these cases, but I hope we can come back later. I am surprised that a representative who I know is very concerned about research and education, does not see what the Left is doing in that field, and rather takes up things that cut in the offer of children and the elderly. What we're doing in kindergarten, to take one of the things you brought up, we're just doing because we want more quality in kindergarten. We just want it to be so that it shouldn't be the minimum price. We want those who have the worst money to actually pay less. We want a more needs-tested kindergarten payment. And then it's like we're going in for a $442.5 million tax bill. kr. It is not much, but it is in the Left's view enough to secure jobs, and that should also be the concern of this representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1037	Although the Left has about the same use of money as the Government, there are different priorities, including: before distribution: smaller taxes for those with high incomes, i.e. SEK 69 000 for those with more than 3 million. kr in income, and almost nothing for those with low incomes. In order to cover their priorities, they have used different savings measures that are not in fact in line with good budgetary practices. I only mention reduced daily pay, 3 200 fewer places of action resulting from lower unemployment on the left, the estimated effect of coordination measures on health care agencies, fewer AFP pensioners and the sale of property, which is only a one-time income. I really want to ask the representative Tenden how the Left would have prioritised if they were to put forward a real budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1043	I'm very proud of Left's alternative budget because we want more tax on consumption, health and environmental behaviour, we want less tax on work for more people to work, and we want to convert from red to green tax by NOK 4 billion. I'm actually very proud of that. So the representative said it with poverty, if I don't remember wrong. There's actually how we're increasing social assistance rates, and, as I mentioned instead, we're going to have graduated parental pay in kindergartens, which leads to those who earn the least, being able to pay at least. So it's like we're also spending a lot of money on drug treatment. That should also be the concern of this representative, who comes from Akershus, where we have major challenges in the field of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1048	It's interesting to hear the representative from the left when she's talking about the railway. Now they've become very busy on the railways after they came into opposition. Under the previous government had the Left Minister of Transport. If we look at what left did when they sat with the government, they did then say nothing on the railway. If you look at the budget space, you'll see that they've over doubled, up to 180 pst. more to railway now than four years ago. There's been a huge investment on the railroad. More projects have been started. Why don't the Left do some things when they're in position? When they're in opposition, they talk, while it's the Center Party and the Red-Greens who act and manage to get speed on the railway development. The main challenge now in the railway sector is not a lack of money. The main challenge is that there are so many projects that it is the professionals it lacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1053	This was a very predictable practice from the Center Party. I've been sitting on the Stortinget for four years, and I've heard nothing but the Central Party talking about the previous government. I think that's very offensive. I might have thought, when I came in this time as well, that we could start, and maybe together, looking forward. But I'm going to answer that representative's question. We have more money to spend now. The center party has more money to spend, and the left has more money to spend. That's why we prioritise the way we do, and we've spent more money on rail and public transport than the Center Party. It's actually also that we're after the NTP that we treated in ours. I think that is quite serious, especially given that the Minister of Finance is warning us that we need to be tightened up. I'm going to follow closely if the Center Party keeps the promises that are in the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1060	From the point of view of SV, there are some elements in the budget from the Left that I think are very good and deserve boasting. But I do not think that the representative Eldegard responded well to the question from Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, who was concerned with some of the cuts that the Left makes that particularly affects children and the elderly and their quality of life, and that also helps to increase the differences, not least between children in Norway. If you want more quality in kindergartens, you can give it priority instead of prioritizing, for example. a purposeful tax haven for the richest. That's $69 000 for those who have over $3 million. kr in gross income, and at the top of the removal of the inheritance tax, which is also very targeted at increasing the differences between people in Norway, and which go in particular to those who have the most. How can one defend it with the space of action that we have, after all, had, why has the Left not given priority differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1065	The President assumes that the representative is the Tende to answer the question, and not the Eldegard to which he was wrongly referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1068	I mentioned Kristoffersen, she had a question instead that I followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1073	I think the trend is going to be able to answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1076	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1081	Thank you so much for that. I'm glad of what the representative said. We have a lot in common, SV and Left, in environmental policy. I am very pleased with the brilliance I got initially. So it's this thing of tax relief, which was mentioned here several times. We're different parties. We believe that what we have done in fiscal policy will create more jobs. The left is concerned with entrepreneurs and creating new jobs. But then we have to fix this, then we actually have to do something about the framework conditions. We have to do something about the TaxFUNN scheme. It has to be increased. It's been a success. We started with it under the Bondevik II government. Fortunately, this government has continued with it. The left has proposals for a CapitalFUNN scheme. The left has proposals for many incentives to create jobs, but the situation needs to be facilitated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1086	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1089	The Norwegian economy has experienced the strongest international setback in many decades. We've managed to get through it well, and there's also something that's being noticed outside the country's borders. But at the same time, there are still major challenges waiting for us. We are one of the richest countries in the world. That makes us lucky. Oil resources have helped us get to where we are now. But this isn't just about oil, it's the workforce and the people who are our main resource. It is the efforts of the individual, both from our ancestors and from those who live today, that have made possible the development of our welfare society. A key challenge for economic policy is to meet the generational contract. We who live today must meet our needs without destroying the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Not only our children, but also those who come then and after that again, will be able to grow up in a safe and good society. It requires that the resources we have received from our parents and grandparents be managed in a good and sustainable way. Those who fought the National School, the popular fear and national control of the natural resources made choices that benefit us today. Compared to other countries, Norway has a high standard of living, low unemployment, extensive Community solutions and a steady distribution of income. This is what characterizes the Norwegian model. Now it's up to us to take care of and further develop this model of society, as more people get older and the revenue from the oil business starts to fall. If we are to be able to fulfil the generational contract, we need to keep the economy in order and manage our resources in a good way, not least the labour force and the oil wealth. We manage a society and a wealth upon which it rests. Just as we have been able to build on the foundation of our ancestors for us, we have a duty to lay the groundwork for our descendants to have it as well as for us. This is our generation contract with our children and those who come after. The policy of the Government shall be based on compliance with this contract. We are pursuing a policy for stable and sustainable economic development, with low unemployment and high employment. The framework for the budgetary policy action and saving through the pension fund supports this. The government considers it particularly important that this framework be continued. The budget we are discussing today takes good care of these considerations. The 2010 budget is a good budget. It's a good budget in many ways. In addition to addressing the challenges we are facing in the future, we are committed to ensuring the well-being of people. We promote several measures that strengthen areas that are essential for a good welfare state – care, health, school and kindergartens. In addition, we are increasing efforts on transport, the environment, development and research. Differences in living conditions are balanced, which is important to ensure a good society for all. This budget shows that the Government is pursuing a policy based on justice and community. The budget we are discussing must be seen in the light of the situation in the Norwegian economy. We've been putting behind us for a difficult year. The international financial crisis has put policy to the test. Both during the crisis and in the past, Norway and the Norwegian authorities have made choices that have helped us to deal with the difficult situation: We have good and coherent regulation of the financial sector. We have a large public sector that helps stabilise the Norwegian economy. We have money on the book. It has given us a freedom of action that we have chosen to use in this situation. In addition, the activity of the oil industry has continued. This benefits businesses in mainland Norway. All of this made us well equipped to meet the challenges posed by the financial crisis. But the crisis is not over. Part of the competitive economy remains in a difficult situation. Some Norwegian enterprises, jobs and sectors have been hit harder than others. In particular, some export-oriented establishments have noted the fall in demand and the prices of their products in the last year. When the profitability of these enterprises is reduced, it becomes more difficult to bear the high wages in Norway. Therefore, it is important to bring down the cost increase. Here, the social partners themselves must contribute to a cost growth in Norwegian business that is sustainable over time. We have made that clear before, and we have to do it again. The cooperation in income policy and the Norwegian wage negotiation model, where the competitive sector first negotiates, facilitates this. That's what we now have to learn to take advantage of in the future. Fortunately, the outlook for both the Norwegian and international economies has improved recently, but the uncertainty remains significant. Unemployment is much lower in Norway than in other countries, but although economic growth in Norway is expected to rise in the future, it will not be enough to prevent unemployment from increasing slightly from this year to next year. Unemployment is now lower than expected, but at the same time employment is falling. This shows some of the challenges we face in the time that comes. In order to avoid permanent exclusion and loss of competence, it is important that we take care of the labour force in times of crisis. This has been a main task of the Government for the last year. We need to facilitate value creation and high professional participation. It is a quality in itself for society, because if we are to succeed in the challenges ahead, it is important that we succeed in a renewed line of work. The lower the number of social security contributions, the lower the level of public expenditure. But not least participation in the labour market increases the well-being of individuals, both in terms of income and social development. The 2010 budget is supporting the rise in the economy. The budget is well-founded and in line with the rules of action. It's actually been there ever since the oil came and it says that oil revenues are going to be used to balance fluctuations in the economy. The use of oil revenues has been raised to a high level. The active use of fiscal policy in times of crisis requires that we remain in budgetary policy when things go well. As the outlook improves and the growth of the economy rises, the use of oil revenues has to be brought back to the 4 pst. path for the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. I am the first to admit that this becomes difficult and demanding, but it is both necessary and possible. And we've done it before. The opposition parties have submitted their alternative budgets. We have different views on the priorities, and on what societal developments we want. The government disagrees with the opposition's proposal to lower the general level of taxation for them with the highest income and wealth. For the Government, it is more important to spend the large amount of money on strengthening well-being rather than giving tax relief to those who have the most of them. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a broad disintegration in the Great Britain on the framework established for economic policy and that the action rule should be followed. There is also support for us to come back to the 4 pst. track in a reasonable time. That's a good promise. The opposition parties, in their budgetary options, provide about the same oil money use as the Government makes in its draft budget. Some even make it as a lower use of money than in the Government’s proposal. So it's probably the case that the various parties' proposals for concrete containment in some cases are very airy and sometimes partly absent. Some have based on temporary income from the sale of property. If one now assumes that the budgetary impact of the proposed tax reliefs has to be calculated on an annual basis, it seems that the total use of oil money in the alternative budgets is slightly higher than that in the Government's proposal. The budget is well adapted to the challenges we face in the coming year in view of the aftermaths we will see from the financial crisis. At the same time, it is important to remember that the challenges we face in the coming years are difficult and hard to address. It is a political responsibility to circle around and secure the future financing of the Norwegian welfare model. It's a while until I get retired and fall for the age limit, which for my part, as a countyman, is 70 years old. Hopefully that day there will be thanks to Hamar, as it is and should be for an outgoing county. But really, I just want one thank-you speech that day, and it's that junior, Jens Åge, gives a speech to his father and says, "Thank you and your generation for making it easy for my generation to handle the generation contract." This is what the development of the Norwegian economy will be about in the future. That is why we need to pursue a responsible economic policy so that we can ensure a good welfare state for our children and our grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1150	It's going to be line change. Line Henriette Hemdal had taken over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1157	I realized to the Minister of Finance that he had no faith that he would sit as Minister of Finance forever – and that is a good starting point. There'll be a choice in a few years. When I listen to the Minister of Finance, I almost get the impression that he's not quite comfortable with the state budget he's defending here today. It is not he, as Minister of Finance, who presented this State budget, it was another Minister of Finance who did. Why do I say that I feel that he is not comfortable with it? Yes, I record that the Minister of Finance is very concerned about what will happen from 2011 onwards – whether or not to bring down the use of money in the state budget. Then it's funny that you have a government budget today where you spend a lot of money, and distribute it for a lot of good purposes. It's going to make the job of getting money down a lot more difficult from 2011, which the Minister of Finance is busy with. Is it, then, that with this budget, as the Minister of Finance now recommends, the job of cutting costs in 2011 will be easier or more difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1166	It wasn't a warning about a pending departure, but when you turn 70, it's probably time to retire. I think this is a good budget. Today, we have received the latest unemployment figures which show that the registered unemployment rate in Norway is 2.6 p.m. This is an expression of the functioning of economic policy. Our trading partners have an average unemployment rate of 7.8 pst. – i.e. three times as high – so I think this is a good budget. But there is no doubt that there is a budget where we spend a lot of money, which makes it difficult to bring down money and reduce the growth of spending in the years to come. We have to! But it will depend on a lot of things, among other things. the evolution of the international economy, the evolution of oil prices, and the gradual withdrawal and control of countries that have now used significant funds to combat the financial crisis or whether they do so overnight. There's a lot of work to do to get this done, but we're going to do that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1173	In fact, the Council of State is raising itself above the realities of the Norwegian economy and of Norwegian policy. He talks most about the future, what it's like when he gets 70, and what it's going to look like when he retires. What matters is how it is now, and that is the policy that the Council of State must support. The government often tends to point out that Norwegian unemployment, as we were told today, is at 2.6 p.m., is estimated to be the lowest in Europe. That's good! At the same time and in the same breath you should say that 25 pst. of all the Northmen between the ages of 18 and 65 living on public transfers. There are twice as many of them as in the countries with which we compete. So my question to the Council of State is, does the Council of State mean that this distribution of people looking for work, and people permanently out of work, is a health sign for the Norwegian economy? Or would the State Council have preferred higher unemployment if this had meant a reduction in the number of different social security schemes? So, as it is in our competitive country, they have the opportunity to create jobs and get people back to work. We can't do that in Norway when we only have 2.6 pst. who is actually looking for a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1180	It's true that our reality is right here and now. So, we are in 2009, and today we are discussing the 2010 budget. But at the same time, we who are in this room – both those who will vote and the others – have a responsibility to manage the opportunities and values that Norway has, so that the generation will benefit from it. That's what politics is about. That's what politics has always been about, ever since we started building the Norwegian welfare state, that generations after us will have a safer and better future. The representative then points to something that is a major challenge in the economy, namely that it is about. half a million people in pre-employment who are permanently or on a shorter basis out of work. So one of the big projects in the years to come is how we're going to take better care of the workforce, how we're going to build up under and not erode the workforce. Because it's society's most important and largest resource – much, much bigger than oil. So it's going to be a formidable political task, and I'm looking forward to the continuation here, too, of that very question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1187	When the finance minister talks about the future, I almost get horn music in my chest as a Right-Man. When it does not end with a hallelujah, it is because there is a little distance between the analysis and the measures and the concrete policy that the Minister of Finance defends. In particular, I find that there is a difference between the analysis given by the Minister of Finance of the post-crisis after the financial crisis for the competitive sector and the budget presented, for the Minister of Finance said that the budget is based on the situation in the Norwegian economy. If it is considered that the competitive sector is struggling, it is striking that the Government has taken all the concrete measures taken to provide assistance to the competitive sector, whether in the case of innovation loans, research or better depreciation rules. All those proposals are gone, while at the same time having a budget that helps to increase the pressure on interest rates and interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1194	Overall economic policy is the most important factor for competitive business – the ability to pursue an economic policy that leads to low interest rates, which leads to a low price pressure on the krone price, which leads to a total of good competitiveness in Norway and investment in education and training, etc. If we look at some concrete proposals, it is that in 2009 we have proposed significant increases in the GIEK guarantee framework, we have invested significantly in research, and not least we were out quickly last autumn – about a year ago – and have ensured the building of a protection of soundness around the Norwegian banking system and the Norwegian financial system. It is one of the most important things we can do to create a good basis for business. I am absolutely convinced that the effort to build up under the Norwegian financial services and financial markets is perhaps the most important step we have taken to ensure that there are opportunities for Norwegian companies to compete and to produce.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1199	Now the Minister of Finance is talking about the past. I was talking about the future, the proposals that were then included in the budget for 2010 and beyond. If we agree that it is the overall economic policy that is most important for the competitive sector, it is not linked to the fact that the Minister of Finance attaches such importance to the fact that the budget builds up under the situation in the Norwegian economy, because it becomes more demanding for the competitive enterprises. We know that competitiveness has been weakened every year since the red-green government came to power. We also fall into the World Bank statistics on countries in which industrial activity is beneficial. It has fallen from sixth place under the bourgeois government to tenth place under the red-green government, and we also know that the cost competitiveness of Norwegian industrial workplaces has deteriorated. It is demanding in a situation where the international market falls. Then, as politicians, we have to tackle the means with which we can do something. We cannot do anything about the market, but we can do something about the framework conditions, and we can help to ensure that we do not increase the pressure on the competitive sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1206	As I said before, making sure that we have a financial system that works well is essential for our companies to do well. If we look at the budget for 2009 and 2010, it builds up a policy to ensure that unemployment does not get stuck in Norway, that unemployment is low so that in a time of crisis we can also ensure that the skills of the labour force remain there. So it's clear that if we look a little bit further in the future, it's important that we get a paycheck in place for spring. As I mentioned in my post, the front pages have to sort of get into the foreground. It is clear that income policy will also build up under the competitiveness of Norwegian business, and when the interaction between financial policy, monetary policy and income policy works at its best, it is what really helps to ensure that there are good conditions for producing from Norway and selling abroad. So that's essentially some of the most important government going to work with through the 2010 budget and in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1213	I have the sense that the Minister of Finance also sees the 2010 budget for a generation. It reminds me well of what is written – I don't know if the inspiration comes from there. It says that ‘Everything has its time’, and from 2011 onwards I understand that there is time for tightening, tightening and tightening. That's a lot right when you look at the oil money usage for next year. The finance minister says, quite correctly, that the use of oil has to go down, we have to approach a 4pst. path. We've done it before, and then he's probably aiming for the last time he was Minister of Finance. The difference was that the number of older people went down at the same time as you had to tighten up. That's the opposite that's now happening in the future. So my question is, how does the Minister of Finance view the possibilities of tightening up, and in what areas does he think it has to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1220	I don't think I'm able to go into detail now, but I can give you a couple of considerations. One is that the challenges we see today are slightly different from those we had in the early 1990s, if you're going to go back to that time. A very big difference is that then we had little money on the book – they came in 1996. Now we have a pension fund of NOK 2 600 billion, so it's clear that the wealth of money in itself in Norwegian society probably makes both expectations bigger and tighter. But this should not only be about reducing the growth of expenditure, but it should also be about policies such as: to make it easier for a small minority who are not doing so well in Norway — children with child protection, children who fall out of school, drug users and others. We're also going to use this period to build something for those who haven't been able to participate in prosperity development like the rest of us. Then something happens from 1 January 2011, namely the pension reform, to which the Stortinget has contributed – and that is very good. It is an important element of being able to reduce expenditure in the years to come, when the wave of old age gradually sets in across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1228	I'll talk a little bit more about the close stuff. I want to challenge the finance minister a little bit on biodiesel, which is very pop-up a day. The Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has admitted that there was an accident at work. Now I would like to hear with the Minister of Finance: Does the Minister of Finance agree with the Left that this matter could have been handled a little differently, that perhaps one could have received a notice earlier, in the revised, about what was going to happen? As it is now, it is set up against the railways, against the poor – yes, the arguments change from day to day. Does the Minister for Finance agree with the Left that it could have been managed differently and more predictable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1235	You get the impression that this is something that has come almost like Christmas Eve on the bitch. But if we go back to, for example, St. prp 1 for 2006–2007, the so-called tax proposition, says the Government that: ‘on a principle basis, all road users should pay a charge equivalent to the costs incurred by society in the form of accidents, queues, noise, emissions to air and road wear. Most of the costs of using a passenger car are related to accidents, queues and noise. These are costs which vary slightly with the choice of fuel’. So it's basically not entirely new thoughts that come into the 2010 state budget – a proposal that I put myself fully behind. Just as a small comment: It is not the first time that fees have created a dowry in Stortinget. I remember a debate that was in this Chamber in April 1986. Then there was a question of increasing the fuel tax by 5 cents. The correct thing is 35 cents. Although there has been a lot of noise now, there was a lot of noise at the time, and as we know it had a big impact – consequences that we do not see in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1251	The government has provided a good budget for 2010. It's adapted to the economic situation. It's a budget to keep people in work and to ensure good welfare services. Nevertheless, over the last few weeks, there have been high-level discussions on the draft budget, especially on the subject of biodiesel. Many have expressed strong opinions, and the Workers' Party has on several occasions been accused of arrogance of power. It has also been repeated from the opposition parties here today. Of course, we have to guard ourselves to be arrogant, and we have to bear in mind that the Workers' Party, as a large party, gets this search light on itself. At the same time, we could say a lot about the arrogance charges that come against a party that has been the largest since the war, but which has entered into binding government cooperation with two other parties, and has also made a comparison with the opposition in several areas of the previous magnification period. Nor is it the case that arrogance must be confused with the ability to control, the will to take responsibility and the spine needed to stand in a storm – and the awareness that the decisions we are making now have a bearing on what society will look like in a few years' time. This does not always bring short-term benefits to the polls, but steering the country is about thinking in the long term, and standing up for measures that do not receive standing applause here and now. We know from the past that we have lost the excitement of facing unpopular but necessary reforms. For example, our changes in the VAT system in 2001 were largely maintained by the subsequent bourgeois government, probably in deep gratitude for the fact that the Workers' Party took the noise. I do not expect them to say loudly here today either. The budget we are about to adopt today also contains unpopular proposals, and in particular the introduction of normal car diesel taxes on biodiesel. There are several who have distanced themselves from the proposal in view of the fact that the motivation ‘only’ is to provide revenue to the country. When did securing future income for the community become a inferior and almost dubious motive? For the Workers' Party, this is directly at the heart of our great project: a further development of the welfare state and a society that includes everyone. Income to the community is a prerequisite for a high-quality, free and high-quality common school. Income to the community is a prerequisite for a health service that does not ask, like in the United States, what you have paid into a private insurance premium before you can get treatment. Income to the community is a prerequisite for upgrading roads, railways and ports, and income to the community is a prerequisite for the growing number of elderly people in need of care to receive a decent and well-suited offer to their needs and needs. When the biodiesel case has taken up as much space in the media and in the opposition as it has, it is probably also about the fact that the state budget has been rarely received well. The budget makes strong efforts to get people to work, in municipalities, in transport, in hospitals, in research, in culture and a number of other areas. This is absolutely necessary in the times we're in. The financial crisis is still not over. The latest confirmation was made on Monday of this week, when the NHO presented its last quarterly report. A survey showing that of the 2241 Norwegian companies interviewed, one in four companies planned to cancel their employees in the next three months. Work for everyone is and becomes a heart issue for the Workers' Party and our Government, and we follow the textbook on how to ensure this. In the first three years of the previous period, when the growth was historically strong and the enterprises were unable to provide labour, the use of money was held back. The government parties had to endure a lot of criticism for this, not least whipped up by the rhetoric and overrepresentation of the Progress Party. But it was crucial for the competitive industries that the pressure on the economy, interest rates and exchange rates were kept in check. Without this discipline in economic policy, industry had been less equipped to meet the tough times that came afterward. When the financial crisis came to an end, the government increased the use of oil money to counter rapidly increasing unemployment. This is called countercyclical policy. It's effective, and it makes sense. Unfortunately, you cannot say that about the line of the Progress Party, as expressed in this Chamber today. In the years of widespread labour shortages and strong economic pressure, the Progress Party has consistently proposed adding tens of billions to the Government's budget proposals. Now, when there is still a risk of high unemployment, the message is that less money should be spent than the government spends. Understand the one who can. Nevertheless, I think it is important to distinguish between what the Progress Party says and what they actually do in their alternative budget. It may seem that the Progress Party is betting on the ‘wow’ effect when they put themselves under the government’s oil money usage, while at the same time saying that they want to bury the rule of action. The progress party has obviously had a desire to brighten the Right in terms of oil money use, but when you go closer to the containment proposals, the barely Right People are still satisfied. In reality, many billions are missing for the expenditure increases made by the Progress Party in its alternative budget. So far in the debate, the Progress Party has spent a lot of time talking about predictability, but neither predictability nor clarity characterise the alternative budget of the Progress Party. As the Minister of Finance was involved in his speech, we must prepare for years to come with tighter frameworks. The rule of action is at its best, and we are going back to the 4 p.m. course of action after we've been through an extraordinary situation, the biggest setback in the world economy since the 1930s. The rule of action is about taking care of jobs in Norway, and it is about solidarity between generations. We want the oil wealth, even when it's turned into a financial asset, not to be used up, but to be thrown into joy for ever-new generations. Norway is internationally recognised for the way we have managed the oil wealth and the oil economy. There is hardly any country that has the power to combine oil and gas revenues with the further development of the mainland economy, as Norway has done. The burden of proof therefore lies on those who will change this foundation and this policy, not on us who defend it. Norway remains the world’s best country to live in, and the challenges of tighter budgets are small compared to the problems facing most other countries. However, there is every reason to prepare for criticism and harshness when priorities will gradually become tougher than before. We should not ignore the fact that the political turbulence that has preceded this debate will shine as a message compared to what we are waiting for. But it is about doing what is needed to keep unemployment down and further develop the Norwegian welfare state. The working party is prepared to take responsibility and stand in the storms that may come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1292	I noticed that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader said in his speech that fees are available to secure income for the community. In all previous contexts, when the Workers' Party has defended charging, the argument has been that it wants to change behaviour in different areas. It has been said that maintaining alcohol or tobacco taxes is to influence people’s consumption. Then it becomes a little strange that when you are about to introduce a biodiesel tax, which has a completely different effect, it is not to reduce the driving that you are doing, and it is not to achieve any environmental benefit that you are doing this. What you end up doing is encouraging the drivers to use as much of the most polluting fuels as possible. Then I have some problems in following the logic of the Workers' Party when it changes depending on what fees we are talking about. Then my question becomes to Helga Pedersen: What is the real reason why the Workers' Party imposes taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1299	Through the tax and tax system, we will ensure income for the welfare state in the future. I note that the leader of the Advance Party has also made it clear that it would be right to introduce a biodiesel tax in the long term, and I cannot see why we should push a decision that seems difficult in front of us. The charging system should also help to promote the desired behaviour, but it will be very, very strange if in four to five years we have a situation where we spend more money on subsidising biodiesel than we do, for example. to build rail and to promote maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1304	Now that Helga Pedersen has come to the Great Government, I hope that she is also a little worried about the principle of power distribution in society. Indeed, it is a principle that fewer and fewer people in our society – even those with a high level of education – are able to explain when we have now had far more than four years with a majority government. You get the impression that the Government is not only the executive, but the legislative power and soon also the judicial power. I think that's a problem. It should also concern the Workers' Party, which has at least historically been concerned about taking care of these values in our society, and which is a fundamental element of our governance system. What will the Workers' Party do to take greater care of the principle of power distribution and to show the Norwegian people that it is actually the Stortinge which is the legislator and takes the final decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1311	We're going to ring about the power-allocation principle. When the Government provides a budget, it is among other things. on the basis of broad processes involving our aggregates. It's also happened in this context. Then we have noticed the debate and criticism that have come against the biodisease since the budget was presented. We have also met many of the critical comments from, among others. the opposition lots in this context. Therefore, we have invested more money to promote second-generation biofuels in Norway, and we have announced that we will increase the sales ban so that the market shares of biodiesel will not decrease when the biodiesel tax is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1318	I understand that the principle of power distribution is not as important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1323	It is well that the Storting is not the party's big group, but this hall and all of the selected big ones. There you might be able to clean up a little bit in the power distribution mindset. My question to the representative concerns something else. The biodiesel business is really about three different things. One is about the substance, namely the promotion of a proposal that will contribute to a more polluting fuel in Norway, that there will be more CO2 emissions. The second is predictability for investors who have believed in politicians and who experience that the framework conditions change overnight. The third concerns the relationship between the Government and other parties on taxation in the transport sector, on biodiesel, and where the settlement partners believe that what has been proposed is a breach of the agreement. Then they ask the Prime Minister for a meeting before this matter is dealt with in the Chamber, but do not hear a break. What does the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1334	The principle of power distribution is established. But it is also the case that the Norwegian people have elected a majority in this process, and the Workers' Party and our partners, SV and the Center Party, have obligations towards their voters to pursue red-green policies. Something else would be a betrayal. The introduction of the biodiesel tax is among several things also about the polluter paying. Those driving on biodiesel will still be exempt from the CO2 tax, even if they still emit CO2. With regard to the investors, I believe that they can live very safely, breathe calmly. We've invested a considerable amount of money, 100 million. kr, which is earmarked, and 40 mill. kr to be used to develop 2nd generation biofuels in Norway. The State contributes. In addition, we have introduced a trading order and announced that it should be stepped up, in line with what was agreed in the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1347	I understand that at least the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party agrees that what has now been promoted as a new proposal is really just a postponement of something that we have agreed on in the earlier conciliation. There is an explanation in relation to previous debates here. But my question is, how does the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party view the fact that her predecessor signed an agreement with three other parties last year? Then there were changes in these questions. Then it was called up for calls at Erik Solheim's office. We saw each other in our eyes and said it was okay that the government needed longer time, and that we could postpone the interference order from 2009 to 2010. This year we won't get one word back in response to a letter to the Prime Minister about a conversation about these questions since they are within the framework of the conciliation. My question is again: what does the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party think about it? How did she intend to repair this? Does she intend to initiate a process in which we can agree on how to ensure that emissions in the transport sector in Norway are reduced when the Workers' Party is now helping to destroy its chances of doing so with its proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1354	We have a great deal of respect for the climate agreement, and of course we are behind it. We stand by it and follow it up with the conciliators also in the continuation. As far as I am aware, there was nothing in the climate agreement about a fee. It was stated that consideration should be given to increasing the turnover of biodiesel based on the consultations to be conducted on biodiesel. This came to many critical remarks, including those from the opposition parties. There has been a dialogue between the Environment Minister and the settlement partners about it. We step up the trading order until next year and maintain the current market. I hope that the other conciliators are satisfied with that. Then we have announced a further escalation from 2011. I hope that our partners are also concerned that the business community will have a few months to adapt to it, and that we have proper sustainability criteria in place, so that we ensure that the biodiesel marketed in Norway is good, both for the climate and for the world's poor who need food on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1361	The Christian People's Party is party to all the conciliations entered into in this house under the red-green government. As a party to all of these similarities, we're concerned that they're being followed up. We are committed to it, and we expect it from the Labour Party. That is why we were very surprised when the Prime Minister went out last week and said that the sales order should be shifted in relation to the agreement we entered into at that time last year. I must remind the representative Helga Pedersen that we had a round a year ago, in which all the parliamentary leaders agreed on what is on the agenda, which the Stortinge treats today: ‘The Parties to the Climate Agreement have agreed to escalate the trading mandate to 5 p.m. from 1 July 2010.’» It has been unilaterally changed by the Prime Minister in his speech to the Trade Union, without talking to any of us. Is this a loyal follow-up to the climate agreement? Is that how we can expect the Government to deal with the parties to the climate deal in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1371	The Government and the Workers' Party have great respect for the climate agreement. I believe that we have also followed up the climate agreement at this point. We have also noted the critical comments of the Christian People's Party leader and parliamentary leader in this area. We would like to come back to discuss the follow-up in more detail, but I hope and believe that the Christian People's Party's growing group is also concerned with combining a stepping-up of biodiesel with the introduction of proper sustainability criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1376	The great parliamentary similarities in the Norwegian uprising are perhaps one of the things we can be most proud of on behalf of Norwegian politicians – the fact that we sit down and agree on major, important issues across the broad lines of policy. The latest developments in the climate deal have not been well seen in the light of that tradition. I notice – whether I should follow up on the representative, Højbräten – that the important speeches made by the Prime Minister on the follow-up to such an important settlement are not held in this Chamber, but for the various trade unions acting as sponsors of the party's election campaign. It's the important arena for the Prime Minister to announce it. We now have a number of breaches of the agreement. It's on the follow-up, it's on the whole petroleum sector, it's on green certificates, it's on the fossil energy action plan, and it's on energy use in both public and private buildings – a lot of breaks. We don't get into a dialogue, and we feel that the important thing isn't being done. Why is this conciliation not important for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1383	I do not agree with Mr Grande's conclusion. The climate agreement is important to us, and we are very happy that we got a deal in place in this important area. Over the last four years, we have strengthened Norway's climate commitments. In the budget, there is a strong commitment to environmental technologies. We've been following up on green certificates, which have been a theme for many, many years. We are offensive in relation to a test centre at Mongstad, carbon capture and storage, and we are a propellant in relation to the summit that will soon be in Copenhagen. We're also following up on biodiesel, which the Left Party is busy with. Then we'll come back and discuss in more depth the other follow-up of the climate agreement, but I feel sure that the Left too is concerned that stepping up biodiesel should be accompanied by strict sustainability criteria, so that we're actually quite sure that it gives the desired climate effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1388	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1391	I note that now that all the parliamentary leaders are going to the pulpit, the Prime Minister has not found it worth listening to the debate. That may well be a sign that what the Stortinge says is not as important to the Prime Minister of a majority government. So what remains as the debated footprint in the 2010 state budget is that it is now more expensive to drive a car on environmentally friendly fuels, and that the Government does not intend to implement it, including setting down a company that has also received support schemes through state agencies, despite the fact that the Minister of Finance and a number of other representatives of the Government assure us that this is a budget to reduce unemployment. It is not related, and I understand that it is unpleasant for the Government to be confronted with this. Having said that, I think it is sad that this budget debate is essentially about a tiny, tiny fraction of what a government budget is all about. A government budget is about what kind of future we are going to offer the inhabitants of this country, the business community in this country, and what positions Norway should have in relation to the world around it. It would have been quite appropriate to have a more comprehensive debate on where it was of the Government's impoverishment, on where it was made by the Government's promises in the election campaign to get a more dignified elderly care for all the thousands of sick, elderly people in our country who now have to compete with schoolchildren when municipalities are going to settle their budget. So there's a totally unreal situation in what's called the world's richest country. A government budget debate should, of course, be about the goals and visions we have for this country, about how we are going to solve the unresolved problems. Instead, this is only about biodiesel, and it is about an autopilot government that has put all the targets and visions in the drawer. The Progress Party, on the other hand, has shown in its alternative budget that it is possible to make priorities that solve the unsolved tasks and that release the individual from many of the coercive streets that social democrats like to pull their ears down. Reducing the tax and tax burden means that each family is given greater freedom to have its own economy. It's about dignity, it's about pride, and it's about assigning priorities to the individual instead of taking it from them through a very high tax pressure. It is that we want to enable our business – or unborn businesses – to transform good ideas into new jobs. Then we have to give them opportunities through good incentives, instead of punishing them when they are actually in the process of success. Our alternative budget is also about investing in the unsolved tasks — bringing down health cows, getting more valuable care for the elderly at a faster time than the government provides, making a sensible use of taxpayers’ money by reducing red tape and reducing the increasingly comprehensive public administration that could have been beneficially more efficient and lessened. It's about tightening up the asylum flow, which I heard the government was busy doing something about when it was election campaign, but it's not possible to track down in the 2010 budget. When estimates in the 2010 government budget are that there will be at least as many asylum seekers in Norway next year as in the year, which was a record, voters have been fooled when it has been said that there will be tougher measures to reduce the influx of asylum. It's worth noting, but with a significant degree of abstinence, because it's four years until the next time the voters have the opportunity to do something about it. There's a proposal distributed in the hall from the four opposition parties, and I'm going to deal with it. I would just like to say briefly that when I heard Lundtigen's contributions, the impression was that one could not vote in favour of this proposal because one would then vote against the Government's budget. That's wrong. There are two changes made from the opposition. One is to remove the proposal to impose a levy on biodiesel. The second is that you finance it by reducing the cross post. All other proposals put forward by the Stoltenberg Government in this budget have been covered by this subsidiary proposal. This means that if you are taxed on biodiesel, you can safely support the opposition’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1408	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1413	I record that the representative Jensen in his post took self-criticism on behalf of the opposition for his somewhat unilateral focus on biodiesel. She should in and of her own accord have praise for that, also because she draws up slightly different and broader perspectives in her post. Significant parts of the containment proposals that the Progress Party has in its budget appear to be somewhat airy and creative. I think that's very bad because we can't see what the real priorities of the Progress Party are. On one point, however, the Progress Party is not to be misunderstood. On one of the most targeted measures we have to get people out of work and out of poverty, the party cuts 80 pst. of the Government’s proposed allocation. The representative, Leirstein, was challenged earlier in the debate on this, on why we cut the qualification programme. We did not get a good answer to that. Can the representative Jensen explain why the Progress Party will delete the qualification programme in Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1421	Firstly, I would challenge Helga Pedersen to be a little more concrete when she makes claims about the so-called airy and creative containment of the Progress Party. I would like to know what it is that is airy and creative in the invasion of the Advancement Party, because I don't think Helga Pedersen has evidence to claim that. So how to get more people to work. Well, now we've had a red-green majority government for four years, and never before have more people been on the outside of work. Then it might be time for us to start looking for new tools, which help to get more of those on the outside knocking on the door, but who don't let in, to get to work. So it is 92 000 people with disabilities who are asking for the possibility of an organized job so that they can use their skills in the workplace, but it is better for the government not to be involved in unemployment statistics, but instead to come up with disability statistics. It should be a mess for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1428	One of the unrealistic suggestions made by the Progress Party is to cut the appropriations for the disability area, or SEK 5.1 billion, without reducing the benefits. Can the representative Jensen explain how the Progress Party will make many thousands of untapped Norwegians healthy and able to work in the five weeks remaining before the 2010 budget comes into force? So you cut out the qualification programme, you almost completely erase it, but without the representative Jensen here being able to answer how to get these people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1433	I'd like to give you that answer. Helga Pedersen assumes that everyone who is currently receiving unpaid pay is sick and unable to work. The truth is the opposite. We receive daily reports on people who are defined into the queue for the Workers' Party, who are healthy, or who have at least a significant residual working capacity that they want to offer Norwegian business. Their problem is that they don't have a chance, because of an inefficient hub, because of square legislation, because of rigid bureaucracy. Then also Helga Pedersen should look into his own government and advise it to think anew about how we can free these people from a lasting existence like disability, when all they want is an opportunity to participate in the working life in line with all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1438	As a rule, the Progress Party proposes massive tax cuts in its alternative budget, mainly to those with high incomes from before, but under rhetorical cover of the opposite. At a small glance in the distribution tables of who will actually get the tax credits, one can easily see that on average people who feel less than 150 000 dollars will get about 150,000 dollars. 100 kroner in light with the Progress Party's arrangement, but one person who has more than 3 million in mind. kr, will get approx. 107 000 kroner in tax dollars. What I want to ask you is, why my Advancement Party that it's right that one should get more than 1,000 times that much in tax dollars if a dime is more than three million. kr, which if one has a low income and has poor advice and perhaps is thinking $100,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1443	First of all, I am pleased that Bård Vegar Solhjell is now adopting the idea that it might be wise to also give tax relief to those who have low income in this country. There is a possible new settlement in Stortinget, which I gladly contribute to. In the Advance Party's alternative state budget, we do more things. We provide tax relief to business, for example: by maintaining depreciation rates as removed by the Government, which will be important once we have still not come out of the financial crisis. But then we give tax relief to broad groups of the people. We provide tax relief at the bottom that will contribute to those with low and medium incomes. We remove the inheritance fee, which will benefit everyone, rich or poor, the day they lose their loved ones and will inherit their abandoned assets. We have begun the liquidation of the property tax, on which the Progress Party went to elections. So there's no secret that we're going to take it away, and that will give the effect that both those who have little, and those who have a lot of income, will be able to benefit from not having to pay property taxes on income they've already taxed several times in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1450	The party of progress ran a campaign in which they were able to create great enthusiasm for some popular tax cuts on petrol and alcohol. When we see the proposal that is now in place, the Progress Party is proposing a cut in fuel charges of 50 cents, but it also says that the Advance Party accepts a price on the fuel of over 11 cents, even if they want it to be 4 to 5 cents cheaper to drive a car one kilometer. In the case of alcohol, the Progress Party supports the Government's proposal, and then my question is: Is this an expression of a new and more responsible alcohol policy on the part of the Progress Party? And will the representative Jensen confirm that the Norwegian level of taxes on alcohol makes sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1457	The answer to that question is no. And now we have just heard the Labour Party's parliamentary leader explain to us that there are no taxes on alcohol in Norway because you want to influence people's consumption, you have it because you want to fill the state fund for various purposes, and I ask the representative of the Central Party to note that when he is going to assess in the future government budget the level of the levy on different products.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1462	I want to follow this a little further, because when I read our country today early, there were two things that made me happy. The first was that the Progress Party no longer wants to reduce alcohol taxes, and the second was that they have called in all of their large-scale representatives to vote in favour of a high level of solidarity. But then I read on in the article and see that a fiscal spokesman in the Progress Party, Kenneth Svendsen, says: ‘Nothing dramatic has happened except that we have had a financial crisis. Because of this, we have chosen to adjust the fees differently from before. [[...]] When the situation normalizes, we will have enough priority to reduce alcohol taxes again.’ So my question to the representative Siv Jensen is: why is high alcohol consumption and abuse more dangerous during the financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1474	It could actually be a very good question if it were related. Let me say this: the starting point of the Advance Party is that the Nordics are not very different from the peoples of the rest of Europe. Over time, we want to harmonise taxes in Norway with that of other European countries. So yes, our goal is to get the fees down, because we have a general confidence that the individual Northman is fully capable of having a good time with alcohol. Then it's important that in such a situation we are also concerned with preventing abuse and using resources against those who can't do it. We experience that in a lot of situations in society. But that doesn't mean that every Norwegian has the potential for a gross abuse of alcohol. I think we're going to assume that most of us have a nice time with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1481	I have a question for the Progress Party that concerns an area where the Left and the Advance Party are usually not so much in agreement, and that is the immigration field – and here it is more surprising from my side. For as I have understood the policy of the Advance Party, it is believed that an applicant for asylum to Norway will be allowed to come in, to deal with his application as quickly as possible, and then to clarify it in relation to a legislation on which we then disagree. But then I am very surprised at the draft budget, because the draft budget dramatically cut it off. The whole immigration field was dramatically cut. And from my understanding of what that leads to, there must be huge asylum recipients, with an incredible number of thousands of people sitting waiting to get their case dealt with. I meant to believe that according to the logic of the Progress Party, one should increase the processing capacity of the UDI, ensure that matters actually go faster, and rather support the Left's proposal, which means that you get a faster clarification of who will be here or not, and not just help to make a whole break with people sit forever and wait for their applications to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1488	I fully agree with Mrs Skei Grande that it is important to bring down the UDI procedure, but she is skipping many of the other proposals that the Progress Party has in its alternative budget relating to asylum and immigration policy. So we believe in our own policies. We believe that if we had adopted and implemented our tightening proposals, far fewer asylum seekers would have come to Norway. And of course, it has to be reflected in lower budgets where, otherwise, we spend enormous amount of time and capacity on an excessive influx of refugees to Norway, which is based on a somewhat naive way of dealing with this from the sitting government. Now it is to be added that we also believe that the Left's approach to asylum and refugee issues is naive, and if we were not tightened up soon, Norway would end up being the only country in Europe that has liberal rules in this area, and then we are at full speed into a disaster that we cannot control.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1498	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1501	Today, the size is collected to find out if two representatives of the 86 red-green representatives are more concerned with the climate than with the tax revenue. So that's how you could point out how the majority of this debate goes, but that's also the case we're going to get to the end of the evening, when we finally see how it goes with the proposal we've put up with relating to biodiesel. You can vote in favour of the entire government budget, with the exception of one thing: you can ensure both jobs and the environment through the continued tax exemption on biodiesel. But this debate is of course about more, and should also be about much more. I think it is good for the Minister of Finance to look ahead and look forward to it. I think that's a job all politicians have all the time: to be sure that every step we take is a step in the direction of the society we want, and solutions that help our children experience a world as good or better than the one we've experienced. And that applies not only to our children, here in Norway, but also globally. That is why it is important to ask the critical question: are we on the right track with the policies included in this budget? I also believe that we need to establish, as the Government does in the national budget, that we are taking the wrong steps in this budget in relation to the generational accounts. You use more than you can save for the future. You go wrong. Generation accounts go in the wrong direction for the second year in a row. That is why it is also important to take seriously – and it is going to be right – the signals from the Minister of Finance that we need to quickly return to sustainable economic development, represented among others. with the rules of action. But it's not, as we say in Bergen, "a fat" what you spend the money you have. Much of the question of whether you are taking care of society for the next generations is about the content of the budget – what you are betting on and what areas you are taking. That's why we believe that we need to grasp more fully the things that raise the long-term growth capacity of our society. We must have better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have to do something about the tax burden on the companies that are privately owned. Employment taxes are now rising seriously, and this will make more jobs unprofitable and increase the rate of change. We need to focus more on knowledge, innovation and innovation. That's why we're very critical that when the government takes away just a little bit of the package from this summer, they're essentially choosing to take away everything that's directed at that part of the business that's still struggling, that's export-oriented industries. Then we have to bet on school, competence and education. We need to do more in the transport sector. For we have 10 years in the future – the 10 years from 2010 to 2020 – where there will still be room, both in terms of oil revenues and yields, before the burden on the expenditure items associated with the elderly is going to be so great that it is difficult to invest in growth capacity in the future. The second thing we have to do, in addition to focusing on the growth capacity of the actions we are doing, which the Right has put in its budget, is to make sure that the biggest expenditure bomb is now being reduced – the biggest challenges for individuals in Norway – namely the large and growing exclusion of people who get social security but who are not allowed to contribute to our society as they themselves would have liked. That's why we have to do something about sick pay, and we have to do something about social security. That is why we have also produced a report on a comprehensive strategy related to how we can address and stop the large amount of people being sent through the sick leave system and into disability. We have to do more than just look at the sickness pay system. We also have to look at how we get the instruments within our sick pay system to work. We have an invitation to the Labour Party – like the entire Government – to discuss this more closely with us, not just with the social partners. We're going to do something about this. But it takes something. This requires, for example: the main challenge is the lack of skills among many when transitions take place in the labour market. Norway is a great country, with high costs and high productivity. The problem is that those who are not productive enough, those who do not have sufficient competence, fall out quickly. It is nice that the unemployment rate has not increased so much, but it is a danger signal that, during a period of unrest, sick leave has nevertheless increased, and there are 16,000 more annual jobs on sick pay in the second quarter. There may be a signal that sick pay is now being used for direct transition to disability and that there will be no unemployment period. The problems are in front of us. I hope we can take some common thanks to do something with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1530	First of all, I must be allowed to comment on the remarkable fact that the Prime Representative of the conservative economic policy in Norway does not have the power to take on the amazing results of the government's policy, which is of the highest international character, not least in the management of the financial crisis. The right always requires responsible budgets, affordable enough. This year, the Right has criticized the Government for spending too much oil money. Their use is approx. NOK 2.3 billion less than the government has added. So, when you go through the Right Alternative Budget, many of their containment proposals are in conflict with the demand for realistic budgeting. For example, tax receipts from seniors are calculated at work, without specification, and are also charged to break the agricultural agreement in the middle of the period. In other words, the right does not tighten the use of oil money. If the right is really busy tightening up, why don't you use the option?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1539	I understand that in the Workers' Party it is that if you don't stand with the glorified tribute of what the Workers' Party is doing at any time, you haven't understood the realities. In fact, over the last four years, more and more people have fallen out of work. Even though it's very nice – we've seen the best economic situation in the world, and we've also got more people working – we still haven't been able to get more people with disabilities into work. We have a lot of big social problems, and I think the Workers' Party should take a look and look at it. Then I want to say that we voted in favour of all the measures that concerned the financial world. We voted for most of what the government proposed, but we thought that in some areas the device should be more towards those who are now struggling the most: export-oriented business, which is at the heart of future value creation in mainland Norway. That's the bottom plan of what we're going to live on after the oil age. It is those who are now taking the burden of the government's policy, and I am going to criticise it until the government realizes that they have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1546	In this debate we have again heard very clearly the Right's view of the wealth tax. There are well-known arguments that have been repeated. Right will remove the tax, which is the most redistributive tax we have in our tax system. We heard earlier in the debate Right fiscal spokesman, Sanner, say that they would not vote in favour of the Government's proposal for a fairer valuation of housing in the property tax, because they were against the whole tax. That, I would say, is a mildest to say very strange approach. The right-hand argument against taxes on wealth is that it is bad for business. But the question is, is it right that as long as we have the property tax, it should be as unfair as possible? And does the Right really believe, as Mr. Sanner suggested, that the taxation of dwellings, as the Government has now proposed more fairly, is a threat to the development of Norwegian jobs? Is that really right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1553	We don't think that the new tariff system of the Government is necessarily going to be fairer. We don't think that's necessarily going to be more sustainable. You're going to get a lot of new examples that this is unfair with the way you put it up. The last time the Labour Party tried to create a tariff system for housing in Norway – which was voted down in Stortinget at the time – they could not force a majority to kneel, as they can do with a majority government now. Then we have the principle position that we want to remove the property tax. When we want to increase the point of entry – and are going to increase the point of entry significantly in the years to come – and remove the wealth tax on working capital as the first two steps we would have taken if we had been in government now, injustice related to housing taxes would not be a problem, because it would not be a wealth tax to pay off ordinary dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1560	Let me first follow up the last theme here, because earlier today, the representative said that property taxes were not about justice. Now the representative says that Solberg would not have solved the problem of our changes. But what's a little interesting here is that here's also a party with a very different view of wealth taxes – from what SV sees, to what Right View has. Everyone supports the currently proposed conversion, except for Right. And to the question of justice, if we look at it, it's like for homes that have a translation value of over 10 million. kr, the mean value of the equation in 2007 was approximately. 10 pst. of it. For those under 1 million. kr was the average equation value three times that high. So it's a deep wrong. My question to Erna Solberg is: why does the representative Solberg want that right to exist? Why won't she lower the wealth tax for people who live in Oslo east or in Rome or in Follo?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1567	The fundamental injustice of taxes on wealth is that it is not a tax on what you earn, not on returns, but for example. on which dwelling you happen to have. That means that no matter what your postal address may be, the person who lives in the dwelling does not necessarily need to have the type of income that the housing address should indicate. That's why we know that the wealth tax for many is a burden. This means, for example: that keeping a dwelling for people with low incomes may be more difficult. That means that you can have difficulty keeping a cabin that you inherited, if you're dissatisfied, because you can't afford to pay the property value of that cabin, because it's incidentally in an area that's become very attractive. We're thinking a little bit different, we're thinking a little bit different. I think there are some good values in people's lives that will also make it possible to keep your childhood home, or the cabin in which you grew up, even if you have difficulties in life. That's why we think it's equally fair to say: we're removing this property tax. Then we tax what we have profit on, and then we tax what we have income on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1574	A theme here in today's debate has been the climate agreement, since the Right and Left yesterday announced that they think – it's a little unclear whether they're going to go out of the climate agreement – that the 'climate agreement is dead', according to, among other things. VG-net. Erna Solberg is quoted as saying that the proposal for a biodiesel tax leads to ‘the objectives of the climate agreement cannot be achieved’, despite the fact that what is now being implemented is a follow-up to what is agreed in the climate agreement. Then she goes on to say: ‘That means that we don’t have to be bound by the rest and can lead, for example, to go against the rush rate if it comes up, or we can go in to lower the petrol rate’. My question to Erna Solberg is: is it that if the climate agreement is an agreement with the Government, it is good environmental policy to have a rush time tax and a reasonable high level of the fuel tax, but if there is no agreement with the Government, then there is bad environmental policy, and one will not stand for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1584	I didn't say the climate agreement was dead. It's not a quote from me. But I have said that the government has broken the climate agreement. And I think it's very arrogant of the Prime Minister – it's nice that he's in the room, so he can hear me say it again, I said it instead also – not to reply to a letter from the three parties with a wish to meet to discuss the biodiesel tax system before this treatment takes place, considering that last year we were associating with Erik Solheim and negotiating to postpone the little change from 2009 to 2010, at the government's request, because we couldn't achieve the goals. To answer that, I thought I had been a respectful way of dealing with people who have gone into an opposition. I have pointed out two points in the climate agreement that are difficult for us. We thought it was ridiculous with 25 extra cents. It didn't mean anything, but we realized that it was SV's little disciplinary action that the Right should have to vote for something they really weren't for, and that we should give something in the climate agreement. We are in favour of an active climate policy, but we are also for propriety in Norwegian policy when entering into and signing it. As the parliamentary leader, I would suggest that Mr Solhell speak with the other two parliamentary leaders on his side, and now the other conciliation partners are inviting us to a meeting so that we can clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1592	Right wants to appear as a responsible economic party, and places great emphasis on a user about 2.3 billion less than the government parties in the 2010 budget. I have to focus on just one number, and the number has a range of 2 146 million. kr, which is part of the agricultural holding in 2009. According to today’s negotiating system, of which the Right was a member of the Government, a negotiator was due in 2009 and it would have a binding financial impact on the State in 2010. This is how the negotiations have been conducted. It's a minimum grant. The State is obliged and the decision is taken in the decision-making forums, and the industry has been given this as part of its ability to earn. Are there several industries in which the right has an equally unpredictable view of the framework conditions that it will not apply even for one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1601	We voted against the agricultural negotiations and the agricultural performance, because we thought it was too large and too much. But in our alternative budget, we have shown how the Right's policy will turn out in the right direction. Among other things, we want to reduce agricultural transfers by about SEK 2.1 billion – a lot on red tape, but also in direct transfers. It's a consequence of a policy that's very predictable to the Right. You can go into every budget in the last five years, read them and see that it's been Right Policy. It's predictable, it's implemented. It's clear that some things you can do differently if you're in government. Then you can, for example, not enter into such an expensive agreement with the agricultural organisations over the State budget. But we can't take all the assumptions for misappropriation made by the Government and put them into the budget. In fact, we have to put our own policies into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1608	I am fully aware that the Right has a different opinion on the appropriations for agriculture, among others. It's completely parallel to the fact that the Storting has parties that have very different opinions on different issues. But finally, a decision is taken, a decision that obligates the State. What's special here is that the right is breaking the commitments made by the state through decisions in this room, and trying to say that it's responsible budgeting and is containment, which it can't be. This is the right ‘responsible’ budgeting in this central area. The size is about the same as the right-hand so-called saving in the entire budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1613	It's an interesting exercise to discuss whether we're going to put all the premises from what a government is doing in a year that we're voting against, and in which we might have made changes if we put in government, into a de facto, and then we can't do other things to make visible what we would have made of bets in a budget. We have chosen to create a different budget where we make visible how our priorities would turn out. We have therefore voted against the agricultural agreement. We think it's wrong, that it's too high. We believe that agricultural bureaucracy is too big. But what we also think is that we have many opportunities to make it better to be a farmer in Norway by taking away some of the regulations, the petty regulations, for example. for co-operation for which the centre party has been at the head. We can create a more dynamic and viable agriculture in Norway if we give more freedom to farmers instead of the detailed regulation they are now subject to. Then there would also be a significantly greater chance of survival and survival on the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1623	Overseen the debate on the state budget that has dominated the last weeks, I believe that the budget for the next year and to the extent that the last budgets of the Government and the crisis packages that have been adopted earlier this year show two things very clearly. One is that Norway has achieved better than almost all other countries through a financial crisis that has been massive and has done enormous damage internationally. We have had – and have – our challenges with her in Norway. But the new unemployment rates of 2.6 pst that came yesterday, which have been referred to here before, make politicians and people in other countries almost without exception envious of what we have managed to achieve through the financial crisis. It's an impressive effort that the Government has made, and the basis we've managed to lay for the future. At the same time, however, in the budget for next year and in the previous budget, we have turned the policy towards the left and implemented important policy changes step by step. We are implementing the greatest welfare reform in recent times, with kindergartens and a grand lift for care and schooling. We take back the path of international climate policy in this budget, for example. a large forest bet. We are pursuing a much more active foreign policy. We've realized the goal of using 1 pst. of GNI for aid and above it. And we are gradually implementing a fairer and fairer distribution policy in this budget through changes in the valuation of housing in the wealth tax. There are politically clear and distinct differences between a common opposition. The distribution policy is a very clear and clear difference, for the opposition is implementing, to a greater or lesser extent, large tax credits to the richest in Norway, which weakens the potential of the type of welfare lift that the red-greens carry out. Of course, the commitment to well-being versus tax havens is another dimension of it, and there are other political differences. But I think it's very clear to see how little the opposition is still in the fall when it concerns the direction of important political questions. It is not a climate policy option that is presented. There is no common alternative policy on welfare, care and knowledge presented. There is no new common direction in foreign policy, in integration policy. On the contrary, we still see one perhaps even more divided opposition in important fields. Climate policy, which has dominated the debate today, is perhaps the clearest example of it, because in important areas central climate action from the opposition is not being implemented. What would have happened if there had been another plurality on the Stortinget, was that the three parties that have been on an important rise through the climate agreement, would draw on a large millstone called the Progress Party on when to implement their alternative climate policy, which they claim to have. Therefore, perhaps the greatest difference where the opposition stands — in addition to biodiesel — is the characteristics of the Government more than an alternative course. To date, we have been able to prioritise knowledge, climate and distribution both in time and through the financial crisis. I think everyone has to admit that it might be even tougher to do in the years to come. But it's also going to be even more important. It becomes more important to make sure that human capital is developed, to bet on people in Norway through tough times. It's also going to be more important with the green conversion that's absolutely necessary when we're going to go down on money consumption. Not least, it is vital to protect those who have the least, those who have low incomes, those who live in poverty and those who are out of work, through the process we are going through the next few years. The biggest challenge is renting Norway through the rest of the financial crisis and reducing money use, but in such a way that we still invest in knowledge, climate and fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1644	SV is a hot follower of all kinds of taxes, now also a tax on biodiesel. That's not the price of biodiesel I'm going to ask for. EN is, among other things: also a very hot defender of the inheritance tax — or a death tax, as some have called it. It makes the state a joint heir to all the people who live in this country. The money received by the State on the inheritance fee is not very much, so the proceeds are relatively small in the context of the state budget. The inheritance fee is politically or ideologically justified. Then I would like to ask the representative, Mr Solhjell: on what ideological basis does the representative, Mr Solhjell, defend the inheritance tax – a tax on already taxed funds, which goes from one generation to the next?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1651	It's true that it's not the big proceeds. However, there are a number of taxes and taxes that, in total, allow us to maintain the comprehensive well-being, and not least develop it further. It's also part of the taxes and charges that have a significant distribution effect, because we know that the generation effect here is important to consider. It is such that inheritance continues to distribute unfairly to new generations. Therefore, a basis for the levy is that it has a significant distribution effect, as well as that if we are to have a tax system that can finance welfare, it is the sum of very many types of income that can achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1658	That really means that SV believes that if someone has and does not have others, it is unfair in principle. But what I'm after is the principle of justice in charging already taxed and saved funds. As an example, a childhood home that goes to the next generation, let's say it's worth 3 to 4 million. In that case, the State shall have approx. NOK 300000 – 400000. What is the basis on which the state deserves this money? What kind of justice does SV have, when they think it's fair that just because a person experiences grief in the family, some die, and the next generation takes over, then the state should be co-heir in this settlement? What is the ideological basis behind it? The representative Solhell tried to justify this on the basis of the need for the money, because all the monks are leaving – you take it, you take it. But it won't last. You have to have an ideological basis for why it's right to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1664	It's because, unlike the Progress Party, it's true that those who think much should contribute more than those who think little, and that those who have greater wealth should contribute more. A little look at the Progress Party's alternative tax regime shows that the effect of this is that a person who has income of more than 3 million. kr, on average, will have more than a thousand times more to pick up than the one that is charging NOK 150000, with that tax bill. Therefore, different taxes and taxes that can ensure a fair distribution are correct, because they transfer resources by paying more from those who have the most, which can be used on welfare schemes, but which also means that those who have less pay less.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1669	It hasn't been that long since the election campaign. The representative, Mr Solhjell, campaigned for election as the Council of State and the Minister of Knowledge. He stated at a large debate meeting – I think it was at Lillehammer – that he should be personally the guarantor of an extended study funding, that is, 11 months of study support. Now the representative is no longer in the Government, but I wonder if this personal guarantee still applies. There is nothing about the extended study support in the Soria Moria Declaration, nor do we find it in the State budget. But the representative still has the ability to exercise influence, I believe. The question then is whether he is still a personal guarantor for this to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1674	The debate meeting was not at Lillehammer, it was at Rome's Folk High School. I don't want to say that it was big either, it was medium sized. But it was recorded on video, it was. It's absolutely right that I said something in that direction. One might say that I went a little far in relation to what I could keep. I'll admit that. When it comes to the matter, there was no consensus about it in the negotiations on Soria Moria II. She's not listed there. There is also no proposal in the budget. That means that SV, and others who are concerned about that question, must continue to work on it, without the Government committing itself to it in Soria Moria II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1681	Those who are at the root of problems in the Norwegian export industry will hardly agree with the pan-egyrian considerations that Solhjell's representative gives in favour of resolving the crisis. They find it strange that some of these measures included in the package of measures in February, such as increased depreciation, improved loan frameworks in Innovation Norway and, for example, in the United Kingdom. in the former area of the representative Solhjell, the allocation to the Research Council and the user-driven innovation arena – after six months it is announced that, as the Minister of Finance has said earlier today – it has not been properly said by the representative Solhjell – that the crisis is not over. How could the SV and the representative Solhjell argue that such measures were cancelled so quickly, knowing how many jobs this is, especially along the whole coast of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1688	I didn't say she was over. On the contrary, I clarified: I have been through and standing up in. Because there are still challenges ahead of us. But I think it can be difficult to disagree that people in Norway who have been unsure whether they will lose their job feel better to be in such a situation in a country with 2.6 pst. unemployed than in countries where the number is 10 or 20 pst. We've gotten far better through this phase than many other countries. So some of the measures that were presented earlier in this year are out of the budget for next year. Many of the interventions were introduced as a pretense and have therefore not been continued. Other measures have been continued until next year. It is an assessment of measures, of how they fit the situation we face. For example, many competence measures have been passed on. Then, of course, the government will also assess the need for additional measures for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1695	There are still too many poor people in Norway. It is therefore positive that the government budget has some good poverty measures, but the Christian People's Party would like to see even more radical action taken, among other things. in the case of social assistance. In the election campaign, the SV leader was clear that the main single action in the fight against poverty is norms, increasing social assistance rates. The Christian People's Party is just proposing to increase the indicative rates of social assistance by 5 pst. as a first step, and to make these indicative rates the norm, binding rates applicable to the whole country. In this way, we can end today's unworthy situation, where social assistance varies excessively from municipality to municipality. And I ask myself why SV could not support this proposal. Does the SV representative believe that there will be some of the party's highest priority poverty initiatives in this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1700	First, I want to say that I value not only the Christian People's Party's commitment to poverty, but not least that they have now taken the same position that SV has had for some years, that we should have national social assistance rates. I think if even more people take that position, we're going to get this right away, because there are significant differences between the different municipalities. So I'd say it's a much wider image than what's decisive for poverty. To prevent future poverty, I believe, for example. investment in child protection, kindergarten, school, etc. is entirely decisive. So I've shown things like not least the increases in minimum pension, housing support, other measures, the increase in social assistance in two rounds, that have come. In addition, there are other poverty measures, and for example. toy assistance in the SFO, which is currently in the budget. So I think the poverty effort we've had is going to continue with even greater strength in the years to come. And I really want to challenge continuing to cooperate on it, for example. when it concerns the issue of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1707	It is always nice to listen to the SV parliamentary leader. He has a rhetoric that is often close to the Left's heart. Today he talked about human capital and how to build human capital in society – a perspective Left shares very much. What I am not going to vote is when you come to the practical policy. Because when you have maritime research on 11 months of study support – and that’s great, maybe you should take politicians on tape more – the problem is that this was something that everyone thought before the elections, but the government parties have all turned around. So the problem is not to get anyone on the team, the problem is to get those on the team, to do what they promised they would do. We have a break in research, and we have a school effort that's about bananas and SFOs. Is this what is investing in human capital? Are there cuts across the UH sector, isn't it supporting students, or is it betting on SFOs and bananas that are future for Norwegian human capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1715	All of it and a lot more! I'm a little unsure whether it was a compliment or not that I have a rhetoric that is close to the left, but I choose to interpret it like that. And at least when it comes to the field of knowledge, I know that the left is busy with it. But to bet on developing human capital, knowledge, it actually starts with young children and ends up with doctoral degrees and systematic further education all the way. It's an extremely wide range. We have carried out the largest welfare reform in recent times with the use of kindergarten, which is an enormous investment in welfare. We are now conducting an extensive schooling with several teachers, several hours – and a bet on the SFO, which is related to it, because kids also learn outside just hours in the school. We're doing a lot of work against failure in further education. We have increased base in the last few years, we have increased research far more than the government that last put in. This is how I could have continued in many fields. This is an investment in human capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1724	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1727	The world is hit by a financial crisis, and Norway has had a prerequisite and political will to deal with the crisis in a good way. The measures that have been implemented have created activity, provided people with work and led to schools being maintained, railway platforms being built and pipes being built for district heating. Although much is going well in Norway, there is still reason to be concerned about parts of the industry. As a resident of a border state, Hedmark, I know how short we need to go to see a completely different situation than the one we have in Norway. There's free time terrifyingly high in the Nordic context. The financial crisis is very serious and will contribute internationally to many people losing their homes and being pushed into poverty. The financial crisis has hit many, but the global crises we see in relation to climate and food are not least hitting poor people even harder. I'll come back to that. I'm concerned that people should have the freedom to realize their dreams, even when the dreams go across centralization pressures and capital forces. The centre party does not accept a passive policy on housing patterns and industrial development. As a day commuter with a family in Hedmarken, I know all about the importance of having an infrastructure that makes things possible. There shall be no residency in Norway. But when four out of ten between the ages of 18 and 44 say that they could imagine moving out of Oslo if they had the opportunity to do so, we as elected representatives do not fulfil our ombudsman role if we do not pursue a policy that gives people opportunities, which gives people real choices if they want to choose different from the big stream. Young people today take higher education. We in Norway must make technological opportunities, develop new and shrink distances through active use of technologies and competences. Norway is a diverse country. A country as diverse as Norway is, with deep fjords and high mountains and small and large municipalities, where it is cold and warm, requires a diversity of solutions and respect for diversity. What looks like a good solution from the center isn't always in the periphery. Yeah, what's the center and what's the periphery is largely determined by where you stand. The center party takes this seriously. Therefore, a living rule of the people and the decentralisation of property, power, capital and residence are fundamental to the politics of the Centre Party. It is the central centre values of which the centre party stands as the chief administrator. Thus, a government in which the Centre Party is involved will always have a balance between, for example, the development of urban and civil society. Our objective is equivalent conditions of competition, infrastructure and potential for industrial development, and good life throughout the country. We in the Central Party have a heart for the whole country, and it is reflected in the state budget we are now dealing with. In the transport budget of 27 billion dollars, there is a historically high level of what is used for road and rail both here and there. With respect to reporting, the high, dark traffic politicians in the opposition parties have never been close to being able to show the same when they have had influence over politics. We in the Center Party are about to put our mark on the Norway Map, and we will continue to do that. We bind the country together, and it smells – it smells around in Norway this summer. If you have been driving on Norwegian roads this summer, it has smelled asphalt, because on the roads maintenance and new buildings have been carried out. Things happen, and people have noticed it. With a red-green majority, we allocate more than 14 billion kroner to the State Road Administration and well over 8 billion kroner to the Railway Agency. There has been so much money allocated to the railway that the critical thing is a lack of professionals, not a lack of money. Although much is good, the Centre Party is nevertheless aware that there is concern in the county councils as to whether they will be able in the future to discharge their new responsibilities for the other national roads. We're taking this issue seriously, because the other highways and county roads are the small arteries that bind our country together, and there's been a lot of neglect. We've increased the appropriations, and we're going to ensure further upgrading in the years to come. The municipalities are both the hub and the hub of the country's many communities. Norway’s geographical diversity means that schematic solutions to municipal structures cannot provide good solutions. Force is not just an attack on local democracy, it can quickly turn out to be expensive, finding little practical solutions, and choking local creativity. With a red-green majority, we have now laid a good foundation. Municipalities get a real growth in income of DKK 8 billion next year, of which SEK 4.2 billion is growth in free income. We strengthen, among other things: the prevention of health work in municipalities in the context of the interaction reform. The ambition of the centre party is that the interaction reform should be a major decentralisation reform, with the aim of focusing on prevention and treatment in the outlying areas. A decentralised health service will provide skilled jobs around the country, and it will provide a better offer for you and me. The Copenhagen Climate Summit is imminent. Norway is quite clear that a solution to the climate crisis will never be a good solution if we do not at the same time ensure the world enough food and water. Agriculture lives with and from the climate and is among the sectors most vulnerable to climate change and temperature increases. We're talking about a massively reduced food production in many parts of the world. Half the world's population will experience water shortages, many will have to move. The world's agriculture is facing a major challenge in the next decades, as it needs to be produced 70 pst. more food by 2050. Only in Norway will we have 1 million more mouths to saturation by 2030. Provided the same consumption as today, this requires approx. 20 pst. more food. We already know that we are importing 50 pst. of the food we eat. I know Right as a party that has a large nutritional exposure, and therefore it is sad to see that the Right is completely blind to the challenges we face in terms of good food production and a living agriculture. When they choose to cut over NOK 2 billion for agriculture, the Right answer to Norway's contribution to food is quite boisterous. As usual, the Progress Party goes even further with a cut of over $6 billion, or over 50 pst. of the agreement. What would Norway have looked like if the Right and Advance Party had been able to implement its policy? And how could Norway carry out its contribution to producing food in a world that is starving? If we take it seriously first, the primary industry employs about 60,000 people. The food industry, with its 50 000 jobs, is one of Norway’s largest industries. There are more than 1,400 businesses around the country that base their business on food. It is these enterprises and the 110 000 jobs Right and the Progress Party turn their backs on taking money from the agricultural sector. The challenges in the world are diverse, but some challenges are fundamental. Having enough food for an ever-increasing population is that. I am pleased that the Government, in addition to having a responsible and good agricultural policy, is warning that it will increase the investment in agricultural aid, because the world needs more food, not less. The centre party is well satisfied with the overall budget of more than NOK 900 billion. The budget we are adopting today contributes to a development throughout the country, both in the centre and in the periphery. It's a budget that shows that we in Norway are willing to use our wealth to solve problems even elsewhere in the world. Growth is not consumption more, but better management, and this budget provides a good basis for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1782	The center party is against oil drilling in Lofoten and the Vesterålen. It seems that agreement with SV is strong that oil and gas can be replaced by renewable energy within a relatively short period of time. Does the Center Party disagree with the International Energy Agency that oil and gas will be the main source of energy for the next twenty years? The second question is: Does the Senterpartiet agree with Minister of Environment Solheim that an application is now being made to UNESCO for the World Heritage Status of Lofoten?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1789	There is absolutely no doubt that oil and gas are going to be a crucial source of energy in the foreseeable future. But the point is that when we are so lucky to manage a large oil and gas resource in Norway, while also managing other large resources, we have to manage them in such a way that we can get the most out of the resources we have. What we in the Central Party have said in our program, and what is also stated in the Soria Moria statement, is that you want to spend time, so you are absolutely sure that if you want to open up the Lofoten and the West Pole, you do it in a proper and good way, so that you can secure the renewable resources that are there, fish. It's a huge capital for Norway that we have both the fishing resources and the oil and gas resources, and then we have to be able to have an administration that makes us get the most out of both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1796	For the Progress Party, a business life that can as far as possible be on its own feet and generate income without too much State interference and economic transfer is the best. Travel life is the fourth largest industry in Norway, which I think it is also in Battle of Vedums and my county, Hedmark. Many such jobs are created around Norway, many of which are women’s jobs, which is very important in a relatively sparse selection. The promotion party wants to spend more money on the marketing of Norway abroad, and we want something as simple as for example. to liberalise the use of snowmobiles, lower taxes and taxes, a smaller and simpler regulatory framework, to remove taxes on wealth, better depreciation, etc. – so be on the team with those who create and employ new jobs. The question then arises: why has the Central Party not done everything they can, in a financial crisis, to help, among other things, as a government party in the period that has been, and in this budget? tourism and tourism?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1807	Politics is about the whole thing. When you talk about travel life, it's not least about the whole thing. If you take from the amazing state we represent, Hedmark, it's very long-term, and one of the most important things we do for tourism and business is that we have an offensive policy on transport. With the projects started in our state, as a railway investment, E6, rv. 3 and better maintenance of the road network, we see that there will be a completely different availability in our county when we're done than it was before we started. A lot of the travel life in Hedmark is based on agriculture and the cultural landscape we have. The progress party chooses to cut over NOK 6 billion in one click in a signed agreement. An implementation of the cut would have been to break the back of the whole agricultural community in what we are so happy about. What did the traveling life have to do with it? There had only been some winter tourism, while the growth in Hedmark is in the field of rural tourism. If you break that part of it, you also break the travel life in our county.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1814	I note that there may be a long way between theory and practice. It could be fun to have a debate about centralization and some of the things you were talking about. I note that the representative said that the right-hand side turns its back on agriculture. We definitely don't. But it's a pretty interesting look in the nation today, where it says that Breck is going to look at the support system and the statistics. There we know that we have great challenges. I guess that review is going to show that the Center Party has left the farmer's ownership of a bureaucracy and a system so complicated that now hardly understands what is going on. I think it's a pretty big room for savings if you just get a proper review, so that review I support. But it's strange that the Center Party doesn't see room for you to go a completely different way than what you're doing today, because these are important industries in a lot of District Norway, and it's important to get your optimism back. The way in which the Center Party has been, it has proved not to be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1823	In agriculture, we have two main branches. It's forestry, and it's agriculture. When we took power four years ago, we did some tax measures that have stimulated forestry very much. In addition, we reintroduced grants for, inter alia: planting and increased the value of the forest. However, not least with fiscal measures, we have stimulated forestry. In the case of Norwegian agriculture, it is entirely dependent on aid. If we're going to be able to have profits in the industry, we're going to need transfers. It's true that you have to constantly have a critical view of the transmission system you have, see if you can make improvements, whether there are weaknesses in the system that's there. That's what Lars Peder Breck has said in today's nation that you have to do. But at the bottom it is that if we are to have a living Norwegian agriculture throughout the country, the financial resources are needed, and that government is willing to give. Unfortunately, that's no longer the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1830	Fortunately, the authorities have largely kept away from forestry. There we have a very healthy nourishment. That's the second part of the agricultural industry. But as far as agriculture is concerned, we now have an industry that will soon have fewer farmers per year. agricultural bureaucrat than you have children per year. employed in kindergarten or pupils per day. teacher at school. So there's some big challenges here, and we'll probably have the opportunity to discuss them many times in the future. We both come from Hedmark. In an interview with the NRK before the election campaign, Battle Violence Vedum answered questions about what was the most important thing, that it was creating green jobs: ‘We need to get people working while helping to solve the climate crisis.’ In the light of the biodiesel issue and previous debates today, how is he satisfied with the practice in relation to the theory that the election campaign was obviously?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1839	In connection with this budget, we have, among other things: increased transfers to Enova by DKK 5 billion – very important, a very good and effective tool. We saw in the last period that the increased renewable investment, the production of renewable heat, by over 12 TWh, so it's a good bet and an instrument we're going to focus on. In this budget, we're now adding 100 million. kr earmarked for further processing, so we can put in place 2nd generation biofuels. We're increasing the degree of interference, the sales order. So we're satisfied with a lot of what's in the budget. But the budget is at the seventh and at the end a whole, and we're occupied with the whole budget. We see that it's with the other two parts that we can find the best solutions, and that whole thing we're satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1848	In the newspapers this summer we could read that the Center Party would have the Christian People's Party solution for the school. And that's not strange, because it's a good center solution – more teachers and more quality over hours. There are many challenges with the hour-long extensions that the red-greens have brought. A challenge has been raised by the representative himself in the July Web Newspaper: ‘If we were to increase the number of hours further, I fear that there will be many unskilled people teaching our children. Those who are most difficult to learn will lose on such a situation, says the Sp-representative from Hedmark’.» – which is also the questioner now. Nevertheless, the Central Party of the Government continues to escalate towards the full-day school through this budget. Does the representative still think that the most difficult people to learn are the ones who are losing on the number of hours spent in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1862	It is important that the representative Dagrun Eriksen reads the Soria Moria II statement and sees the direction and focus of the government's future school policy. The focus there is clearly that you now want to prioritise more teachers, so that you can fill the hours you have chosen to expand with, with the best possible content. There are the three red-green parts together, after rounding. It has been agreed to increase the number of hours, but it is believed that now is the time to focus on teachers and on content, so that you can increase the amount of learning – strengthen the content – but not the number of hours. This is a common red-green policy, which is set out in the Soria Moria II Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1870	In the debate on the throne, the Left’s Trine Skei Grande had a line to the representative Battle Violence Vedum where she pointed out that the word ‘founder’ was not mentioned once in Soria Moria II. Battle violence Vedum asked Skei Grande and Left rather check the word «nutrition development» which he thought was the same. We have. The word is mentioned five times, in general terms. Similarly, it is the state budget that gets a majority today, bare of a policy – as we see it – that goes on action for entrepreneurs and for those who are going to create tomorrow's jobs. In the evening post a week ago, we could read that SIVA had spent 280 million. SEK to create a total of 139 new jobs in the districts – or 1.6 million. kr for each new job. Is the representative, Mr Schlagsvold Vedum, satisfied with such an industrial development?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1877	I recommend people to read the Soria Moria statement very often, because it's very good. And it's about a lot more than just the word «industry» or the word «founder». It says, among other things: on transport, agriculture, innovation and the role of counties in creating more activity. There are a number of instruments that will be able to create economic activity in Norway. But the most important thing for Norwegian business and for future development is that we are able to keep order in the Norwegian economy – that we are able to keep a low interest rate, and that we are able to have a wage trend that allows Norwegian business to compete. But in addition, many instruments are needed. Some tools will prove to be good over time – others not quite so good. It is then necessary to evaluate whether to use other instruments to create activity and development around the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1884	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1887	‘Do we want more, or do we want better?’ The answer to that question is enough for many: ‘Yes, thanks – both.’ Many say that when you get more income, you get better conditions to experience a better life. There's a reality very many will recognize themselves in. But it is also very important to learn from the part of the national budget on quality of life. I will give tribute to the former finance minister for the work on developing new standards of quality of life in Norway. I hope the new Minister of Finance will follow this up, so that in the annual national budgets, broad indicators of quality of life can be presented that measure social development along more axes than only those relating to economically measurable value creation. This could contribute to a broader financial debate on developments in Norway, measured by measures other than crowns and ears. The review of the national budget says that although there is a clear link between income and the quality of life experienced, close relationships, family communities and health are even more important for people to feel that they are doing well. Studies also suggest that people with idealistic values are better off than people with so-called materialistic values. A third observation is that in societies with a wealth level like ours, relative well-being can be at least as important as absolute well-being for the people to feel good. For the Christian People's Party, it is an objective to strengthen the factors that matter most to quality of life, through the political instruments we have available – knowing that much of this lies outside the domain of politics. So we want to focus on the close relationships. We want working life to adapt to the needs of families – and not the other way around. Families need to choose more of their own way of caring for their own children. We want to strengthen the forces in society that promote ideal values and that are responsible for each other – and especially for those who do not have strong stakeholder organisations to speak their case. We want the environment and our global responsibility higher on the agenda, because it provides a better society both today and tomorrow and a better society both here at home and beyond the borders of the country. We are promoting a budget proposal that has an acute social profile. In the general welfare policy, it is underlined from all political parties that the main road away from poverty is called ‘work’. That's obviously true, but for many of the most vulnerable groups, there's not enough answer. We therefore believe that there is a need to strengthen targeted measures against poverty, primarily in order to improve living conditions. Work-related interventions are poor if the living conditions of those concerned are miserable. This is why we want a stronger commitment to drug treatment under the direction of the non-profit organisations, which are still squandered by hard-handed tendering policies. We want to lower — and eventually eliminate — the proportions of the most vulnerable groups in society in terms of health. And we want to increase social assistance rates and eliminate unjustified differences between municipalities. It was this measure that came up as the most important thing at the poverty hearing in the election campaign where SV's Kristin Halvorsen, I and several others participated. The Christian People's Party is following this up in its alternative draft budget. Norwegian climate policy commitments, increased flow of refugees to Norway and a reduced estimate of gross national income have led the aid budget to set a new record, measured as a share of GNI. Nevertheless, the Government performs to bring about a real decline in key areas of assistance such as industrial development, education and health in poor countries. The Christian People's Party is correcting this in its alternative proposal. Measured as a share of GNI, there will be 1,11 pst. for assistance purposes with our arrangements. The Christian People's Party promotes a budget in which our solidarity with the environment is strengthened in relation to the Government. This is done on the tax side, both with increased taxes on environmental emissions and through the introduction of environmentally friendly behaviour. We're introducing an environmental car premium for electric cars and hybrid-chargeable cars, which the environmental movement is also asking for. And like the other opposition parties, we want to give biodiesel producers more predictability than the government parties add up to. Of course, that doesn't mean – as someone has suggested – that we will favour all biodiesel regardless of what is the source of the fuel. It is clear from proposals in this setting that there is still a derogation from biodiesel when the climate effect is demonstrable and there is no conflict with food production in poor countries. Then we strengthen the appropriations for rail and safe school roads – for road safety and the environment. Sitting Prime Minister has said on several occasions that it is not that a draft budget itself is crucial for well-being and well-being, but that it is the direction it depends on. The alternative of the Christian People's Party shows a direction, a direction for better quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1908	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1911	The government has, through its economic policy and budgetary policy, had two objectives: people must have work, and we must ensure well-being. The same is true of the budget under consideration today. I would say that the economic policies of the Christian People's Party are very close in many ways to the same main objectives that the Government has. We see that in the draft budget that has been presented, and we heard it now quite clearly, I would say, in the speeches by the High Commissioner. Unlike the right parties, we don't see any cuts in welfare schemes here, and we don't see unnecessary tax relief. The use of oil money is also in line with the Government's proposals. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party joins the broad lines of budgetary policy and that the use of oil money is adapted to the situation for 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1920	It is correctly observed by the representative Kolberg that the Christian People's Party joins around the oil money usage that the Government puts up, but we have a completely different distribution. We redeploy nearly DKK 10 billion in our alternative budget, and that is to ensure that this budget is more than the Government's proposal takes account of the weakest. We are e.g. quite provoked by the fact that the Government weakens the financial capacity of the municipalities to offer a good offer to individuals with a high level of service needs. There is money that we believe the municipalities were entitled to expect, and as the government is now changing with retroactive effect. It has created a rebellion in Kommune-Norway, and it is a small but very important example that it has been necessary to correct the social profile of the proposal submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1927	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, which I see as that of the opposition parties that have the most tidy containment proposals in their alternative budget. Then I would like to say that I have a great sense of many of the elements of the Christian People's Party's policy. Now it is true that if someone had come to the Workers' Party and asked for government cooperation and said that the most important thing for us on the cut list is to lower the level of ambition overall relative to working life and employment, then we would have defused them as a possible partner. How does the Christian People's Party stand in that position in relation to the Progress Party, which will completely erase aid policy when they criticize the Government for the nominal increase that is actually there?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1936	I would like to thank Mr Breen for his recognition of the prudence of the budget. We're trying as hard as we can to put forward serious but proficient suggestions. But the representative Breen must have followed very poorly in the campaign if he now, three months after the election campaign was at his most intense, still needs to know whether the Christian People's Party could imagine a government cooperation with the Advance Party. We gave that clear answer to the voters before the election, and that of course applies to a clean party even after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1943	Now also in this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1948	The Christian People's Party is concerned with quality of life, social distribution and an inclusive society – that's good. In this respect, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Government very much agree that knowledge plays an important role. Now what we're wondering is that when the Christian People's Party on the one hand says that, the Christian People's Party immediately says no to several hours in primary school, without correspondingly adjusting down the learning objectives. The Christian People's Party says no to the SFO bet, which has an offer of voluntary, free homework. Our initiative allows us to create a more exciting and varied school by having several hours at our disposal, while the Christian People's Party, by having fewer hours at its disposal, must squeeze everything together in fewer hours. Our initiative itself has a free, voluntary offer of homework, which we all know is one of the most important measures to achieve something that the Christian People's Party is committed to, namely, avoiding reproduction to the extent of social differences and stimulating both learning and formation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1956	I don't know if I've understood Mr. Hagen's question, but I'd like to comment on his claims about the Christian People's Party's policy. It's in no way that the Christian People's Party is opposed to investing in knowledge in school – we only have a slightly different prescription than what SV has. Our prescription is much more similar to that of the Central Party government partner, as demonstrated by the previous change in line, namely that we now believe it is right to focus more strongly on more teachers in order to improve quality in primary school, to increase adult contact and to raise the level of knowledge of students. We see clear outlines in SV's education policy to make the school, and to some extent the kindergarten, a full-day storage facility. We want a much stronger focus on pedagogical quality, and it can be found primarily in the teachers. That's why we have to have more teachers before we get more hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1963	I must read back from the comments of the Christian People's Party in the financial position. That's good reading. It says that: ‘there is a broad political consensus on very much of the content of the State budget. Many of the priorities that have been made will be agreed by the Christian People's Party.» That's very good. So to the question to the representative, the Højbrätt. In the period we have behind us, there was an annual activity growth in the municipal sector of 3.5 pst. i average. During the government's high turn, there was an annual activity growth of 0.8 pst. i average. Then the representative takes up resource-intensive services. Then the question to Højbrätten is: If someone compares the change we have now made in resource-intensive services with the system that was when he left the State Council office, what is his assessment of the current system – is it better or worse than when he left the office?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1975	Let me first say that if the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party is as excellent as the government parties are still claiming, it is strange that our invitation to the government parties to a certain movement in the financial position was clearly rejected. It is probably an expression that the representative Lundtigen called ‘change power’ in this room does not exist – at least not on the red-green side. Then I think the representative Battle Violence Vedum and I will agree that when we're done with this magnification period, we can compare magnification periods. What we have in front of us in this magnification period are contractions. It will also affect the municipal sector. That was the situation facing the Bondevik II government when we had to tighten up the Norwegian economy in 2002–2003. It also had to go beyond the large expenditure sector that the local government sector is, but I think there will be an average after this period that can well withstand comparison.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1982	Let me first say that I have seen that the representative Højbråten has sat here and listened to all the various parliamentary leaders, unlike for example. The representative Jensen, who first complained that others were not present during her posts, and was not present and heard by the representative Højbrätten's posts. It seems to me to be a little respectful move. What I wanted to ask was cash support, one thing I know is very important for the Christian People's Party. I do not think that the game will change vision. But I still want to challenge them: we now have extremely good knowledge of the importance of the period 1-3 years for small children's social and linguistic learning, and of what it's like to hang on to then and build on it later – not least for those with multilingual or minority language backgrounds. We know that about eight out of ten people who received cash support in Oslo have a minority background. I do not expect the batch to change vision, but at least this does not lead to some reflection on whether it is right to propose an increase in cash support, whether there is a proper measure to ensure good inclusion and integration in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1989	Increasing cash support is a proper measure to ensure that all parents, regardless of their ethnic background, have the same choice of care for the smallest children. Many parents think it is too early to send one-year-olds to kindergartens. We still know very little about the long-term effects of breaking up adult contact between parents and children, by sending one-year-olds into kindergarten. That is why we believe that this is a good family policy. We recognize and reflect on the fact that in parts of the country, in parts of this city, the proportion of people using cash support is very large among immigrant parents, who we also want to take a greater part in society in general and be in the common arenas for children who are especially kindergartens. We believe that this can be done with other means than removing the cash support, e.g. with free core time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1996	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e1999	Ibsen once said, ‘That’s the will! Will release or trap.’» The goal must be for a government to have both will, vision and reality orientation. We in the Left are anxious that the reality orientation is not good enough, and that you fail the way you did with the previous state budget, where you don't take the economic crisis in enough, and you have to add a supplement to it, where you have to expand the use of money. It is now believed that the reality has not been taken well enough into account, and I think that when you listen to the Minister of Finance, there will be a greater reality orientation in the future – in line with what others have put forward. There is also a lack of vision in this budget. The left has said that there are three major challenges facing society today: the low-carbon society, the reform of the welfare state and how to build the knowledge society in the future. The left has created a budget where we meet all three major challenges. There has been a record increase in the budget of this government in the last five years. Suffering if it has been a record growth, we have seen that higher education and research are the big losers. The cutting of rest continues, and one denies the realization of reality a little after the painting by Queen Marie Antoinette, who thought that when people complained about the lack of bread, they got to eat cake instead. We've added 350 million. kr extra in basic funding, which actually supports the academic freedom and quality of our students. We promised a research fund of SEK 150 billion in 2010 in the election campaign, and we will. We have also built up bases on how to build knowledge-based business activities in the future, through SkattenFUNN, and the continuation of BIA and climate entrepreneurs. The left actually keeps what we promise with eleven months of student support and full indexing for students as in 2005. We actually want to stimulate studies, and we want quality of the studies that people take. That's what it's all about when you're building human capital. But the knowledge society is already being built from the first kindergartens. Now, what we've done in common is we've built multiple places. The government must have boasted that they have done so, and this has led to prices being much, much lower for the richest. What the Left sees as the challenge now is to get kindergartens with more differentiated prices that can help them with poor advice, and to get the quality into such a way that this becomes not just a storage, but a qualitatively strong, good offer to children. Then it is rather that we give priority to teachers and the professionally based education in front of bananas and leisure arrangements. I think if you're going to bet on building a knowledge society in the future, it's not about bananas and leisure arrangements, it's about really good teachers. It's about writing problems projects, it's about a complex good subject in a school with several specialised educators and several health sisters, as the Left puts it in its budget. The left also has a huge environmental boost: on renewable energy technologies and research, on rail and collective support. We're really the only party that meets what we said we were going to do in NTP. But the left is also to use the economic mechanisms. Ten years ago, all the parties talked about going from red to green taxes, about envy-based taxes versus pollution-based taxes. We're the only ones who actually do it in the budget. We also use the VAT system to get a healthier population, by removing VAT on fruit and vegetables and increasing it on sugary products, of which we want people to spend less. It has to be profitable to be green, it has to be profitable to be healthy. Through its budget, the government really breaks both in terms of will, vision and reality orientation. We in the Left meet all the points, both on the environment, on knowledge and on renewed community. We have the will to do it, we have visions to do it, and we have reality oriented towards the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2025	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2028	I think that's good reason to give the Left quite a lot of credit for their commitment and commitment to what Skei Grande in a previous line change called the human capital of society. It also appeared very clearly in the post that we now heard. It is a paradox that in the proposal now before us, we see that it is cut in the wealth tax that goes beyond important welfare arrangements within human capital and the development of human capital. Therefore my challenge to Skei Grande: Why do the Left do such priorities when they have such a clear objective that she has now also expressed in her post?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2035	We probably do not share the Workers' Party's position on a charging system that is just about getting money into the community. It's about a lot of other things. It's about turning consumption around, as we want, it's about people acting the way we want to, and it also leads to us being able to use the tax system to create jobs. The tax change left has been introduced here, is primarily about a tax shift that gives them $2 billion with all the lowest income. But that also means that we're giving a lot of help to all those who want to create jobs. That's why we're doing these handles in the property tax, and that's why we're doing the other steps in the business tax. We want to create jobs, we want to stimulate business to create jobs. That's why we're doing the grips. We also want a less red and more green tax. That's why we're increasing environmental taxes, and then we're giving $2 billion in tax bills to those with the lowest income. It's social, and it's the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2042	I would like to follow up on this with the property tax, and then I would first like to confirm that it is the case that the left not only wants to remove the property tax for the companies, but that you also want to remove it for private individuals. Isn't that right? In that case – if there are the companies that are the real reason for it, and the bad distribution effects almost a side effect, why not replace as Left this grip with other grips that give a corresponding fair distribution? And why do you think it's right to give almost $1 billion to tax cuts for those who have incomes of over $1 million. instead of using the billion for measures that are more accurate to create jobs and prevent unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2048	It's actually like we're spending a lot on business taxes, but we're spending a lot more on those with the lowest income, over twice as much on taxes for those with the lowest income. It is linked to our tax and tax change, from red taxes to green taxes. We focus on them with the lowest income, those who then also benefit from a relief in the tax on wealth that creates more jobs. There are many thousands – over 7 000, according to the Ministry of Finance – more jobs in the alternative government budget of the Left than in the Regeningas. In fact, we believe that the tax system can be used to create jobs, but also to compensate for differences. In addition, we have spent $2 billion on an additional poverty effort in addition to what the Government has done. We have increased social assistance rates, and we have put in place a number of measures to reach them with the worst of advice. Then there's someone we have a good conscience towards in the left with this budget, there's people with bad advice. We get them jobs, we support all the social support systems, and we give them tax credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2055	It's hard to disagree with some of the things that Trine Skei Grande said about its main points and challenges for the time we're going into. It was about climate, it was about providing good education and competence for people, and it was about ensuring the reform of the welfare state, which she was talking about, that is. a further development of the welfare country. All three things are clearly the most important challenges we face. If we draw up what goes on knowledge and what goes on the development of the welfare state, there is one proposal in the Left's budget that I just think is completely incomprehensible, and that's what makes it more expensive for parents to send their kids to kindergarten. It's negative for both of these areas. It's negative relative to giving kids equal opportunities. We know that many of the kids who don't go to kindergarten, especially here in our town, need to go to kindergarten to get better language development, to get better opportunities at school. The other is in relation to the welfare state. If you're left with 750 kroner less if you go to work, from walking away from disability or social assistance, you lose a lot of money, lose opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2062	I do not know Heikki Holmås as a very stupid representative. I therefore believe that I shall be able to explain this to him in one minute, since he does not understand it. We have taken NOK 73 more from those who have good advice, to transfer it to two other measures in kindergarten. One is that we will get an income-differentiated payment. For the large kindergarten reform that SV has gone through – all honour for several places – has led to prices falling for the richest, while those who have poor advice still have the same prices around the country. We don't think that's fair. We want to spend the money on getting cheaper places with the worst of advice. The second measure is a commitment to competence. The kindergarten shall not be a mere storage space. It's also going to be a place where the kids get a good ballast, as they need, in life. It's the kids who get the worst ballast from home, who need that competence in kindergarten. Our second bet – and this is a zero-sum game – is to build up the skills of kindergarten, make it better, get more professionals, train more people who can work and give ballast to these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2071	So the left is counting that there are going to be more kids who get cash instead of being in kindergarten as a result of the grip left over here. There's no doubt that we're going out and saying that this is going to be a universal system, low price, and that we're going to keep that price low, is exactly what's crucial for all those who sit at home and count on whether it pays to be at home, or whether it pays to get to work, and that says, if we're going to pay a high kindergarten price, it doesn't go so much in plus that it's worth going to work. I believe that making sure that everyone has access to a low-cost nursery is very important. This is nothing new. The left has proposed in every budget to increase the price of a nursery, so this is nothing new at all. It's not like the Left has all the other times had to make sure that the money has gone to exactly the same strengthening measures in the kindergarten that we're occupied with, and that we're just spending money on, partly in these budgets and partly in the budgets of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2078	There's nothing new at all. The government proposed the actual seas in 2007. What we have now proposed is completely linear with what the government did two years ago. That's exactly equal to the sum. It's quite similar in effect. Then it was just an index adjustment. When we propose it, it's a disaster and a rage. That's not what I'm going to do! I think you have to have a slightly lower noise level given what $73 more a month really means. It actually doesn't get the consequences that Holmås is talking about for them with the worst advice, because if one spends the money to get a larger income grade around the municipalities, it will help exactly those who have to count the heads and ears to see if it pays off.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2085	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2088	The main objective of the government's economic policy is to work for everyone. This is therefore the main objective of the budget currently under consideration by the Grand Duchy, and that is the main objective of the economic policy pursued in recent years. The main objective of the government's economic policy is that work for all is so crucial both to achieve the objective of social justice and to achieve the goal of high value creation. We know that high unemployment and low employment always hit those who have at least before, and we know that high unemployment is the biggest waste of society's financial resources. If we succeed in combating unemployment, we succeed in creating and sharing at the same time. It was precisely this that was threatened when the financial crisis took place for real last year. It was just one of the finest features of the Norwegian model, namely that we have managed to have less leave than most countries, and we have managed to keep more people in work, which was threatened when the financial crisis took place seriously. That was the dramatic thing we saw, especially what we saw last fall. The money and credit systems were about to stop completely. The grant of credit was in the process of completely drying in. We saw a sharp fall in production. In several countries, we saw a decline in output of 10–12pst on a quarterly basis. in the national product. Stronger cases we haven't seen since the 1930s. We saw that banks and businesses went overboard. Therefore, it was important to take significant and very strong measures. It has been done this year, and it is followed up in the 2010 budget. The banks have been provided with money and increased security for their business. We have implemented and follow-up important measures to strengthen our export industries. We use the budget to keep the wheels going – to clean up schools, maintain roads, to keep people working. This policy has produced significant results. We set ourselves the goal of getting through the financial crisis with the lowest unemployment in Europe. Norway now has the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The figures for the unemployment rate published today show that we have 67 000 unemployed in Norway – about 2.5 p.m. In our neighbouring countries, the situation is very different. In Sweden we now see that the time off is approaching 9 pst. – over 400,000 unemployed. We see the same thing in Finland, in Denmark and in the rest of Europe, where the unemployment rate is now above 9 pst. You're afraid it can get into 10 pst. Next year. The figures for 2009 show that 22 million are unemployed in the EU. It says something about how dramatic the situation is in our neighboring country. It's not like some people later believe that because Norway has oil revenues, we automatically have low unemployment. In 2005, we also had oil revenues, but there were several countries in Europe that had a lower or about level of unemployment with the one we had in Norway. Today, all these countries have clearly higher unemployment than we do in Norway. In 2009 – a year of financial crisis – we have lower unemployment in Norway than we had in every year in the period 2001–05, when it was not a financial crisis. This shows that it is not obvious that we should have low leave. It is not least the result of a strong economic policy to ensure low unemployment and high employment. The reason we have succeeded better than many other countries in combating unemployment is that we have succeeded in getting many people to work. Employment has grown by around 200,000, and three out of four new jobs have come in the private sector. It shows that the claim that a strong public sector – bet on municipal economy, bet on public welfare – is wrong in contrast to private value creation. We have had a strong growth in private value creation, a strong growth in private employment, right in this period where we have had a red-green government that has invested in the public sector over the last four years. The fact that things are going a little bit better in the world economy and better in Norway than what we feared a year ago does not mean that we should now relax, and I would very much warn against the notion that the financial crisis is over. We see that unemployment is growing sharply in our neighbouring country. It's not just that it's growing, but there's a great danger that it's going to get stuck on a high level and become a permanent problem for very many unemployed and very many economies in many countries. The second reason why it is too early to cancel the financial crisis is that we still have low output, low growth in many countries. But the most serious thing is that we have a very serious debt situation. There are now many of our neighbouring countries in Europe — and in the United States — building up a debt that is not sustainable. Sooner or later, this debt shall be repaid. In that imbalance there is a danger of new crises, new setbacks. Several European countries have not had greater sovereign debt since the Napoleonic Wars. The EU has required a maximum of minus 3 pst. budget deficit. Now many of them are on 6 pst. Even Germany is 6 pst. deficit, i.e. a deficit of around 6 pst. of the national product — twice that laid down in the Maastricht criteria. The United Kingdom has about 10 pst., the United States over 10 pst. It's not sustainable, it's serious. And it's very, very demanding to get out of the debt situation in these countries. The debt problem facing many countries reminds us that the precondition for doing what Norway has done, namely, spending a lot of money in times of recession, is that we are holding back in good times. There has been broad agreement in Norway to increase the use of money in the bad times we have now been through, but there is not as much and broad a consensus that we should keep up in good times. What's going to be the challenge for Norwegian economic policy in the coming years is that we're going to show again that when the economy turns around, when the growth comes back, we're going to be able to hold back, limit the use of oil money, to build up the reserves that make us have a strong economy to face down times in the future. In the Soria Moria statement, we say that we will return to an oil money usage corresponding to the return of the Pension Fund. It is important not only to ensure more generations of enjoyment of oil money, but it is also important to be able to have strength in the economy, build up reserves, in order to increase money use when the economic cycle reverses. A lot of people say it's going to be an impossible problem. That's wrong. It is possible to correct the current deficits of Norway, before oil money is used. We've done something similar in the 1990s. Then the deficits – or deviations from what we said were supposed to be the rule of action at the time – were actually greater than they are now. We were able to correct those deficits. We did that through several tools, by holding back expenditures. We also have to do that now. It is easier to do in theory than in practice, but it has been done in practice before. Then we also have to be able to do it in this period. The second thing we did was to implement a lot of measures to make the economy work better, to promote the functioning of the economy, so that we get more economic growth and more revenue. It's not a dynamic tax policy, but it's a dynamic business policy, and I'm in favour of it. We did it with a lot of different instruments, but one of the instruments was fiscal policy, where we had a tax reform that helped to promote investment, which helped to avoid misinvestment, and we have also done important things in this period to create a better tax system, including. through what we have done in terms of taxes on wealth, by making sure that very many now drop taxes on wealth, that it will be more profitable to invest and save on a more profitable basis. What we also do with green taxes is an important part of having a good tax system. The reasons for the Government’s wish to remove the exemption from the car diesel tax on biodiesel are several. One is that it's a contribution to the better functioning of the economy, it's a contribution to ensuring revenue to the community. I don't know about any taxes that are popular, but I know about a lot of money that comes from taxes and taxes, which are used for important and popular purposes – like care for the elderly, like kindergartens, like school. One reason why we have green taxes like car diesel taxes is that it contributes to significant income to the community. In addition, we have to follow the polluter-pays principle. Cars that run on biofuels also pollute. They emit some CO2, hopefully a little less than normal diesel, but also from biodiesel there is CO2 emissions. The second reason is that it contributes to significant local pollution and other environmental problems related to road transport. That's why it's wrong with billions of dollars in tax subsidies for the use of this type of road traffic, and that's why the government has done what it's done. The budget is also an environmental budget in many other areas. There is a significant increase in rail investment, we are stepping up our efforts to capture carbon in Mongstad by a quarter of a billion dollars, and we are increasing significantly our efforts to protect the rainforest – all of which are significant measures for sustainable development. The budget is a budget for work, for well-being and for sustainability. It's a red-green budget we're proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2127	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2130	A short time ago, the Prime Minister visited the National Meeting of the Federation of Trade Unions. He made two rather perceptive statements. One claim was that one could not fail to introduce this biodiesel tax because it would result in a loss of income to the Treasury of 16 billion kroner. In his speech now the Prime Minister reworded it to be ‘billion dollars’. But my question is, is it really that information the Prime Minister comes with, correct? The second claim he made at the same national meeting was – and now I'm going to quote: ‘When we have a car diesel tax on biodiesel, that means we get less traffic on the roads than we would otherwise have.’ Does the Prime Minister really mean it, when he knows that the consequences of making biodiesel more expensive is that people use fuel that pollutes more?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2144	I maintain what I said at the trade union national meeting. I pointed out that these fuel charges give the state total of 16 billion kroner, and then I showed in the same talk that depending on how much you think goes into biofuels, the loss will be a share of these 16 billion kroner. I actually carried out a single percentage. I said if ten pst. So it's going to be 10 pst. of 16 is $1.6 billion. If 20 pst. So it goes over, it's over 3 billion dollars. That is what I said at the trade union national meeting. I would like to repeat on the floor of the Grand Council that the purpose of this tax exemption must be to get a lot of people to do it. If it's 10 pst., 20 pst. Or 30 pst. Well, you could wonder about that, but it's billions of dollars that we're going to spend on other things. Then I also maintain that it is clear that if you give over 4 kroner in tax subsidies for road transport, and then you get a fee or a total price that is lower than today's price, it promotes road transport. One of the reasons we have green road taxes like car diesel taxes is that we want to limit the total use of road transport, because it contributes to less pollution – whether it be autodiesel or other diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2151	I now understand that it is not important for the Prime Minister whether people use environmentally friendly or less environmentally friendly fuels, and take it for information. I'm pretty sure that if a prime minister who had run a minority government had come up with such a blatant deal with figures that we now hear the Prime Minister has, that government would not have survived. I noticed what Lundtegen said in his post in the hall today. It was quite alarming, because what he actually says is that there has been almost an internal cabinet question addressed to the three government parties, and I think that's the first time I've experienced it. It might be interesting to ask if the Prime Minister has actually promoted this, what we should call it, internal cabinet question to his own at a charge that de facto does not result in the conversion to more environmentally friendly driving in Norway that would be obtained without this charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2159	First of all, my game of numbers is precise and significantly more precise than the game of numbers of the Progress Party. What I've shown is that the total income from these fees is NOK 16 billion, and if you assume that 10 pst. Over, there's $1.6 billion in lost income for the community. If you think it's going to be 20 pst, it's going to be twice, and you can keep doing that. However, the point of these low charges has just been that many are going to use it, and then there will be a huge net expenditure for the state. That is what I have said, and I absolutely maintain that here too. Secondly, we want people to use environmentally friendly fuels, but we want to implement it through the polluter pays principle. Having significant tax subsidies is not contaminating the paying principle. What pollutes the paying principle is to tax pollution. That's why we have, among other things, a CO2 tax and this type of road tax. It promotes two things: firstly, less use, it is good for the environment and it strengthens the railway system. Secondly, it helps to turn into more environmentally friendly fuels. This is why, for example: biofuels exempted from the CO2 tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2172	What the representative Lundtigen said at the end of his speech earlier today was that the reason why he and the Central Party do not vote in favour of other proposals here is that they do not want a government led by or supported by the Right. This means that there must have been a discussion about whether this government would go off if a different budget was adopted, or if a biodiesel tax exemption was adopted, which is the only question. I simply ask the Prime Minister to answer yes or no. Has he asked cabinet questions internally on this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2177	This issue has been dealt with in a very common way in the Government. It was discussed at the first budgetary conferences, presented in writing and discussed with all three large-scale groups present at the budgetary conferences, as we have introduced as a practice in this government, and it has been presented by an overall government. I will never answer questions about the internal processes of the Government. If I do it once, I'll always have to stand here and explain it. I think that is wrong. It is essential that there be an overall government, in accordance with the normal budgetary procedure, in which all the parties have participated, which has submitted the proposal. The size groups have participated in the preparation of the draft budget and also this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2182	I note that the Prime Minister will not respond to this, but I believe that we have been presented with a real insight today with the post that Lundtigen made. If you, for example, adopted today's proposal to adopt the entire Government's budget with one exception, namely that there should still be a tax exemption on biodiesel, the consequence would be that a government headed or supported by the Right had actually been given. That's the opinion of the Center Party. Something must have brought that understanding into the Center Party and other parties, that that would be the consequence. Can the Prime Minister explain to me in what way this could have occurred, if he has not expressed it himself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2187	I think it's very important that we relate to what the government has actually proposed, and that all three government parties agree. This matter has been dealt with in a very common way, presented at the various budgetary conferences of any government, with the participation of the large-scale groups, parliamentary leaders and political spokesmen, and promoted by a single government. In addition to that, I believe, for fundamental reasons, that it is wrong for me to explain the internal budgetary negotiations. To say it like that, there's been commitment and strong feelings in all the governments I've participated in. Also in the one-party government I have felt, what to say, the commitment of many government councils and strong statements of many government councils. I'm pretty sure that was also in both the Bondevik I and Bondevik II government. It is vital that the proposals of the Government are good, and that the government parties are behind them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2192	I understand that we don't get any more out of the Prime Minister's internal affairs, but we've probably got so much out of the internal relationships over the last week's media release that we know that Per Olaf Lundtägen hits the nail on his head when he says that the government has decided, and it's the government that rules Norway. I would like to ask the Prime Minister for clarification because it has been claimed here in the Chamber today by representatives of the government parties that it is not part of the climate agreement that we agree to step up the sales obligation for biofuels by 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. It says in the proposition made by the Government that there is something that has been agreed with the parties to the climate agreement. Despite this, the Prime Minister went to the pulpit at the Trade Union Conference on Tuesday and changed that goal, without any contact with the parties with which the Government has agreed to this policy. Is there a way to deal with contracting parties in such an important issue as the core of this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2199	First, I would like to read from the climate agreement. It says the following: ‘The parties believe that further work on biofuels should be assessed in the light of the consultation of the proposal that a minimum of two per cent volume of annually traded fuel for road transport be made up of biofuels, rising to five per cent in 2009.’» So what it says is that it should be considered ‘on the basis of’. It's something other than saying that it should. Then there has been a round where you have adjusted this until 2010, but also there was no obligation to implement it. Consultations and investigations were still to be held. That's what we're doing now, but in addition, we're going to have a commitment of 3.5 pst. as soon as possible during 2010. Then we do what we can to get into place 5 pst. mixing, no later than 1 January 2011. We also want to consult and do that as fast as we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2211	President, can I have the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2216	The President assumes that it will be fully possible to come back to this matter during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2219	But President, the country's prime minister is misinforming the National Assembly with what he is now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2224	The President believes that it is entirely possible to come back to this matter later in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2228	It is stated in the proposition submitted by the Government that the parties to the climate agreement agree to escalate the trading order to 5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2233	I want to ask a question that I also asked the Labour Party parliamentary leader, but to which I did not think I was given an answer. I perceive that the Left Party and the Workers' Party have been united in a political tradition in which we cultivate the broad similarities in the important big issues. We've been together for a lot of things. I have always seen that the Workers' Party is among those who really support the fact that there are some broad compromises in some major issues. Now it's not just biodiesel, but there are several other points where we see that the climate agreement is broken. All opposition parties have asked for a meeting to discuss the follow-up. The left has also presented a Document No. Eight proposals in the hall to get to those follow-up sessions. Instead of the Prime Minister dealing with the other parties in Parliament, we see that there are sponsorship meetings that present what we think about the major similarities and the major challenges facing society. So the question is again, why isn't the climate agreement important for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2244	Firstly, the climate agreement is important for the Workers' Party. I have referred to the climate agreement several times, both here and at other meetings, the last at the trade union national meeting, which is very busy with the climate. Secondly, we've followed it up, and thirdly, it's that when it comes to what's going to happen in Copenhagen, we have, among other things. as the Stortinget has been concerned about it, ensuring that it becomes a separate statement by Erik Solheim with its own debate before the Copenhagen climate summit. Then, in line with the climate agreement, we have announced a new climate announcement, where the whole Stortinget is given the opportunity to enter into both follow-up, implementation and possibly change, adjustment and improvement of the climate deal when the new climate announcement arrives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2253	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2256	Some time ago I received an e-mail saying the following: ‘I’m surprised that the opposition parties do not meet Stoltenberg when he describes tax relief as something you spend money on. The rhetoric of Stoltenberg means that the income of taxpayers is initially the money of the state and that the state is generous that allows employees to retain part of their own income. You should have such respect for people's work that you don't describe it as spending money, when you really don't collect part of your salary to people?' A timely observation from a reflected taxpayer! The Progress Party reduces the collection of people's employee income by less than DKK 10 billion in its 2010 alternative government budget. We're doing this by increasing the minimum deduction and the personal deduction by a total of NOK 8.3 billion and by increasing the peak tax point step 1 to NOK 480 000, which has a proceeds effect of approx. DKr 1.4 billion. The tax profile of the Progress Party is designed so that it is those with lower and medium incomes — I repeat lower and medium incomes — that will benefit most from our tax reliefs. For a family with two adult members, both of whom are at work, with a total income of NOK 550 000, the tax relief will amount to approx. NOK 8 000. For a similar family with a total income of DKK 800000, the tax relief of the Advance Party will amount to approx. NOK 10 000. In today's tax system, it is not possible to propose more social tax relief for people at work. There are a number of reasons why the Progress Party proposes tax reliefs that primarily benefit them with lower and medium incomes. Firstly, tax reliefs have the greatest benefit for individuals and society if they are given low-income groups. This is because people with low wages will increasingly choose to use their increased financial freedom for consumption and thereby improve their own well-being. This is positive for the individual and good for the growth of the Norwegian economy. Secondly, tax reliefs to low income groups have the greatest effect on the supply of labour. The wish to work a little more is increased if the individual is left with significant more in the wallet. Economic terminology describes this as the dynamic effects of the tax regime. In other words, tax reliefs appear as a cost in the government budget at the time of the introduction of the reliefs, but will in the long term contribute to increased revenue for the state because tax reliefs contribute to greater activity in the economy and thereby also increase revenue for the state. Prime Minister Stoltenberg ridiculed that way of looking at the economy, but then I can inform Stoltenberg that this is something that his comrades in the rest of social-democratic Europe celebrate and implement every single day. These links were called 'voodoo economy' in the election campaign of the Prime Minister. In addition, Stoltenberg said that everyone understands that money can only be used once, and if you have spent the money on tax relief, it will be less money to spend on the community. Most journalists, not least in the NRK, thought it was a very good answer. But the remarkable thing is that while Stoltenberg ridicules tax reliefs as a fiscal instrument, the government uses exactly the same dynamic effect as the argument that taxes should not be increased beyond the level of the Bondevik government. The Bondevik Government! Bondevik found just the perfect level of taxation in 2004, and we will have that now and in the future. If the government had thought that taxes did not reduce the activity of the economy, it could have set up taxes and had even more money to spend on the community. However, the Government does not – so far at least! But the government has a good tradition of receiving orders from trade unions. Not later than Tuesday of this week, the head of the Trade Union, Jan Davidsen, was out there claiming that the Government should increase taxes. According to the same Davidsen, these allegedly increased state revenues were to finance the galloping public welfare expenditure. Worse medicine for the Norwegian economy is to be searched for a long time. Thirdly, tax is initially confiscation of parts of the employee income of people. The rationale is that the community must be financed and it must be done through a fissure layer. We all agree on that. But that's the scope and content of this community we're discussing. For the Progress Party is one penny in tax bills, one penny each of us can dispose of the welfare we ourselves prioritize. What is good welfare is perceived differently by the individual. And we don't think society will get better if a few elected state councils are able to define what's good welfare for everyone — this at the same time as about. 20 cents of each tax bill disappears in bureaucratic exercises on the road. Fourth, tax relief reduces the need for expensive wage settlement. For each employee, it does not matter whether the increased purchasing power is due to increased hourly payments or whether he or she retains more of his or her existing hourly payments. In such a situation, wage-earnings will be more reasonable for enterprises, which in turn will improve the international competitiveness of enterprises and will in turn help to secure jobs and create new ones in the long term. 2010 appears to be a new tough year for Norwegian export-oriented business and industry. This is primarily due to the failure of foreign demand, but we must be careful to believe that demand will automatically recover at the time when the effects of the financial crisis decline in our traditional exporting countries. The issues are complex, and there are several issues involved. In the short term, it is important that we provide businesses with the best possible means of survival even if the export market fails. We're doing this by removing financial barriers for companies that don't make money for a period of time. In other words, we must not force business owners to pay taxes on the means of production in the companies. Such a tax on working capital places unnecessary burdens on enterprises. It's strange that the government is withdrawing equity from corporations that have proven to have created values over time, and then giving this capital through Innovation Norway to ideas that you don't know about works. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for a gradual decrease in the tax on wealth and its complete elimination during this ageing period. In the next few years, thousands of family-run businesses are facing a generation change. It is therefore unnecessary and unwise to charge inheritance taxes on means of production which make the acquisition of family businesses economically less attractive. Moreover, it is in principle unreasonable for the State to be co-heirs when already taxed values are transferred to the next generation. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the inheritance fee be removed. If Norwegian companies are to succeed in maintaining their competitiveness even after the financial crisis, it is essential that the state plays a part in the business. The Progress Party therefore proposes to reduce business taxation by increasing the depreciation rate for investments, inter alia. machinery and equipment for 25 pst. Furthermore, we are proposing to reduce fuel taxes by less than NOK 2 billion, while funding a giant commitment in the transport sector – both measures that will improve the competitiveness of businesses. Bad times should also be used to look forward and to change, and the Progress Party therefore proposes to significantly improve the Tax FUNN scheme. If you want to achieve good research results, you need skilled researchers, and then you can't use research funds on the basis of a redistribution principle. The Progress Party therefore proposes to equate its own R & D with mission-based R & D up to 15 million. kr, while removing the amount and hour limit per. person. However, the long-term challenges facing Norwegian business cannot be attributed to the international financial crisis. Norway’s dependence on exports of raw materials has increased significantly in recent years, while other industrial activities are struggling to maintain competitiveness. It is not to be expected that a high-cost country such as Norway will be able to compete in labour-intensive industries and a gradual dehulling of traditional industries will be unavoidable. However, it is worrying that in recent years, Norwegian industry and business have granted themselves pay conditions that go far beyond our competitors. At the same time, the number of employees in the public sector has increased considerably and the level of wages in this sector has increased significantly, all of which, at the same time, has seen strong growth in public social benefits – mainly due to the fact that it currently stands at about 50 %. 700000 persons in employment before the age of outside the labour force. In fact, expenditure for this group amounts to 1/3 of the entire state budget. This isn't sustainable. If we are to succeed in restoring the competitiveness of Norwegian business in the long term, we must avoid granting welfare benefits that economic growth cannot bear. At the same time, we need to reduce the size of the public sector; business needs to get better and long-term framework conditions; we need to reduce the size of immigration of people who have few prerequisites for self-sufficiency; and we need to provide incentives so that it becomes more attractive to work. Finally, I would like to address a request to the Minister of Finance. Yesterday, in the Question Time here, the Minister of Finance answered a question about withholding taxes. First of all, it's unreasonable, but the government is drumming it through. The tax administration sent a letter to Norwegian pensioners, among others. resided in Spain on 18 November that this withholding tax will be applied automatically if these pensioners do not obtain evidence that they live in and tax Spain by 1 January 2010. One can imagine the mood it brought among Norwegian pensioners in Spain. In yesterday's Question Time, the Minister of Finance said he was sure that the authorities would show 'flexibility'. I would like to see the Minister of Finance explain what he means by 'flexibility' because the content of that letter is that per. On 1 January you will be drawn 15 pst. of the pension. It's either – or here – it's not ‘flexibility’. It does not actually help minimum pensioners who live, for example. in Spain that they are being drawn 15 pst. And then it turns out that you show flexibility three months later. These minimum pensioners need this income because they are already taxing Spain. But they're not going to be able to find the legitimacy that the Council of State and the tax system is calling for, in such a short time, and many people are going to despair today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2312	The President has doubts as to whether the 'voodoo economy' is a good parliamentary expression, but in any case it is open to a change of lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2315	Our calculations of the board of directors' tax arrangements mean that I have to disagree very much with Tybring-Gjedde's own description of the excellence of the tax regime. Our calculations show that a person with an income up to NOK 400,000 will receive a tax return of up to NOK 3500, while for those who make over SEK 3 million. NOK, the tax will be in excess of NOK 100000. In that perspective – when you don't give anything to most people and give a lot of money to the richest – how can you say that you're a party to most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2322	That was a very good question. The numbers are completely crazy, first of all. If you look at the overview of our tax reliefs, we've calculated them for all the revenues from $50,000. The person who makes $50,000 gets the most in dollars and in percent in terms of tax relief, of our calculations. The fact that the Workers' Party makes its own calculations appropriate to the Workers' Party may be their case. We've done calculations that show what that means. And then when you earn relatively little, you also pay relatively little in taxes, and so you can't give the same amount in taxes. That's how the tax system works, representative Breen! I recommend that the representative Breen look into how the tax system actually works – just as Kristin Halvorsen gave himself NOK 20 000 in tax bills the first year she was Minister of Finance. That's how the tax system is set up, and we've done this. The bottom deductions are the most social tax relief you can have. In addition, we want to reduce taxes on wealth because it's unfair, it's strange, and it's double taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2329	I have a simple question first and foremost for Tybring-Gjedde, because he likes simple questions, I understand: Reject the representative Tybring-Gjedde that one who makes more than 3 million. kr, will the tax will be taxed at over NOK 100 000? That's the first one. The second is that the Progress Party has repeatedly criticised the Government for the lack of incentives to maintain jobs in Norway in the last year. Why, then, does the Progress Party propose a foreign budget? The purpose of channelling money abroad is to avoid market pressure. Now, however, is the stimulus we need in Norway, as the Progress Party has also pointed out in its criticism of the Government. Why does one then have a foreign budget that undermines Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2334	I'm rejecting that one that has 3 million. kr in income, receives more than DKK 100000 in tax credits. It's because of the tax system. In addition, only a few thousand people are involved throughout Norway. The system that we add up to is for those who have lower and middle incomes, which constitutes the broad majority. That's the whole point of our tax system. When you ask that question, you attack my own intellect. The point of our tax relief is to make the Norwegian economy more efficient and to get the workforce back into business, make it less attractive to live on social security transfers and make it more attractive to work. That's the whole point of the bottom subtractions. If that's what the representative Breen thinks, then why are we accused of being unintelligent about appealing to most people without education? Why should we be interested in giving tax credits to those who have the most from before? What would be the motive of the Progress Party to do that? As regards the external budget, the impact of money spent abroad and the impact of money used in Norway is different. That is what we mark through our budget, even though we are, nevertheless, adhering to the framework laid down by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2341	From tax confusion to the ethical guidelines of the State pension fund – Foreign, which has obviously fallen the representative Tybring-Gjedde heavily to the chest, we shall judge from the representative’s opinions that the guidelines are to be considered ‘ethical imperialism’. I think we all agree as a starting point that ethical imperialism is preferable to practical and actual imperialism, such as the Advance Party, for example. to bomb and invade Iraq in 2003. So the question comes to mind: when the representative Tybring-Gjedde believes that we have nothing to do with pushing what he calls our 2009 standards over the heads of people around the world, do I hear a silent acceptance for the lack of development, human rights and equality around the world that the Progress Party has so far used as a rhetorical crutch in debate on everything from asylum to integration? So going to bombing is good to guarantee people freedom, but using economics is going too far?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2351	The President has doubts as to whether 'bomb attack' is a good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2354	It is clear that the government believes that the ethics adopted, approved and accepted in Norway in 2009, which is completely different from the ethics we had 20 years ago, is the ethics they should impose on everyone across the globe if our money is to be invested. We think that's wrong. We believe it is fundamentally wrong. We believe it is wrong that countries which are at a completely different level of development than Norway should be imposed, for example. 40 pst. women's presentation in the boards, or find out what you want. We think it's wrong. We think it's more ethical that they can evolve in the way they can evolve. For example, when it came to the fight against child prostitution, which was one of the criteria, a survey from Bangladesh showed that these 15-year-olds who worked, all as one, were documented, went into street prostitution instead of working for the company in which the finance minister at the time thought it was unethical to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2359	I'll try to rephrase my question. I did not get an answer to the question. The Progress Party often argues this way – they did so in relation to the Iraq war, and I think that is an important point, because the Progress Party was the party on the Great Britain that went in to attack by bombing and invasion of Iraq in order to secure the freedom and rights of the Iraqi people, as the Progress Party then formulated it. Does the Progress Party believe that it is going over the line to set some basic ethical standards for what kind of companies we are going to invest in, while using military power to achieve the same goals is acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2364	We don't think that's acceptable. What we're saying is we have to use the ethical guidelines where they actually work. And that's kind of corruption. Then we have to commit ourselves to the areas in which international organisations, among others, are involved. goes in and looks at how companies operate. That's why we have organisations that we want to support, that look at trading systems, trade barriers, etc., and we don't want to invest in companies like, among other things. operates with corruption and other things that we call unethical. But we do not accept that it is SV's ethics anno 2009 to manage the investments of the Norwegian pension fund. When you mix Iraq, it's completely irrelevant in this context. If you mean there's an similarity between investing money and going to a bomb attack on Iraq, and that's what you're trying to make me say, and if you want an answer on the ethical guidelines, then it's ethical imperialism. I can keep going, but I'll go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2373	The President just wants to remind you that all the speeches are to be addressed to the President. So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2378	Environmental cargo is a small business owner at my home site Flisa in Hedmark. They have built their business concept around environmentally friendly transport. They were going to run on 100 pst. biodiesel and otherwise do according to the book in relation to the environment. After today's debate, they may have learned a lesson in what trust in promises means. The biodiesel tax will hit the legs completely during the bet. It does so for all those who intend to use more than the incorporation directive says, and it strikes the legs of all those who are going to bet on the production of biodiesel that is going to compete fully with normal diesel, so don't get mixed up. The difference is clear: the working party says they are concerned with the climate, but they show how happy they are in the fees. Biodiesel has also revealed – whether I can say it carefully – an eye-catching dynamic thinking in the Government. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and today the spokesperson on fiscal policy, have talked about proceeds of DKK 16 billion on biodiesel. In that case, it is 40 times the impact as it appears in the budget, and it reveals that the Prime Minister makes this as if a full transition to biodiesel is currently being made before the products have been developed and on the market. This position is in stark contrast to the tax-related thinking. That's all static. A krone in tax relief is then always presented as a krone lost to the government. Both parts, with respect to reporting, are equally hopeless. The Ministry of Finance shall be commended for recognising, as the Right has pointed out for a long time, that the tax models we use are static, while the charging calculations include dynamic effects. The Ministry admits that this is a weakness and that models need to be improved. Should it also result in red-greens realizing the challenge of designing a good tax system? Because with today's thinking in the government, the risk is two-sided: fees are used to maintain old and little forward-looking behaviour, because you fear the dynamics that change is going on, while the tax level has been set too high because you don't recognise the same dynamics. If the young people of Norway are to be able to bear our welfare level when we grow old, we need to be concerned today with stimulating efforts, inclusion, creativity and capacity for growth and development. We need to develop human capital in a short and good way. This is one of the main challenges of the tax system. There is a balance between tax pressures and the distribution and adverse effects. The impact of the tax system on growth and value added needs to be more focused. It must then be recognised that there is a link between tax and willingness to act, the relationship between solid enterprises, solid owners, safe jobs and taxes, and the relationship between the tax deduction and the tax level. It has to be recognized that there is a dynamic here. In the government's right, what sensible growth-promoting taxes can produce as a result: they increase growth capacity, and they increase over time the income of the country. Just so bad that the gain is now transformed into a high public expenditure level by a red-green government. The right-hand draft budget shows the way towards more focus on value creation again. We are doing action that, if they had been adopted, would have contributed to safer and stronger jobs, a stronger business life, stimulating private savings and securing people's homes. It's in the private sector and in the business world we have the challenge. The government has not taken into account that the value creation of the public sector is largely financed by the private sector value creation. A two-part economy in which competitive business is working in counter-grounds and in heavy international economic cycles, while the protected sector is experiencing oil-based optimism, will weaken public welfare opportunities. The balance must be there. The financial crisis is not over. Optimism is on its way back, but for a large part of the business world, we fear that the contours of the aftermath of the crisis have only begun to be seen so far. It is therefore remarkable that the Government is tightening up many of the crisis measures aimed at business, while public expenditure continues its strong growth. This illustrates the challenges of crisis response well. In the public sector, crisis measures have been easy to become permanent. In an international image, where most of our trading partners are still struggling with the financial crisis, the curious optimism, based on strong oil money stimulation and an optimistically protected sector, will easily lead to a special Norse interest rate increase and thus strengthened Norwegian krone. This takes the right seriously. Our alternative budget means tax reductions net of about DKK 10 billion incurred and over NOK 6 billion accounted for. This is a significant shift in the direction of the Norwegian economy, especially when the impact is seen over several years. The government’s largest tax take-up in the 2010 government budget is the conversion of property taxes on dwellings. A completely new charging system shall be put in place at a cost of 65 million. kr. This tax system shall facilitate fluctuations in the valuation of dwellings as market values develop each year. In addition, the terms ‘primary dwelling’ and ‘secondary dwelling’ are introduced. Anyone who has invested in an apartment or a dwelling for children will be taxed as a secondary dwelling. The last step of the government is to raise its base deductions sharply. The last one agrees with the right. This will result in many people releasing property taxes on housing, but at the same time, the Government has introduced a model to adjust property values with market value developments each year, open up the possibilities for automatic increases in wealth, and it may be helpful to reduce oil money consumption as much as this government needs. On the right, over time, the entire wealth tax will be removed. We therefore see no need or benefit in introducing a new tax system. We will continue to use the old tariffs until we have removed the entire property tax, and we will raise the bottom deduction to the same level as the Government. Raising the bottom deductions is also a small but insufficient contribution to strengthening ownership in Norwegian business, but there may be a patch on the wound since working capital seems to be forgotten. Therefore, the right also proposes a reintroduction of the stock discount, an increase in the amount of the free money by buying a share in your own company, and we want to keep the initial write-down rate for machines of 30 pst. In total, these interventions will stimulate investment in order to create new and preserve existing jobs by targeting a diverse, highly private ownership and job security. There's a lot of talk about knowledge-based business. Tax FUNN is probably the only scheme that also takes the SME segment with incentives for R & D. Therefore, the right will reverse the mitigations that have taken place during the government period and go back to the original TAX FUNN scheme and also introduce grants for unremunerated research efforts. The right in its tax regime increases both the minimum deduction and the entry point at step 1 of the top tax. It ensures tax relief to everyone, and with our scheme, 100,000 fewer would have paid top taxes next year. In addition, a direct tax deduction is proposed for persons from 62 to 67 years of age who continue to work. A pay-adjusted increase in the free-card limit and an increase in the amount of free time at home means that the Right through tax reduction of nearly SEK 3.1 billion will increase the number of people working, more and more to work longer. It's important grips. We will ensure that people come back to work as soon as possible in the event of sickness and injury and propose to reintroduce tax exemptions for the benefit of the employer’s coverage of treatment insurance and sickness costs. The government is going in the wrong direction when it removes or reduces the possibility of saving or fails to stimulate savings in each budget alone. The removal of taxes on wealth is absolutely central to stimulating savings and to neutralize the assets you save. Individual private pension saving, IPS, ensures that those who do not have an employer providing supplementary pension can choose to give their own priority. We want to return to the scheme as it was before the Government amputated it in 2007, and introduce 40,000 kroner as savings. We also eliminate the maximum savings in the BSU scheme for young people. In addition, the Right Inheritance Fee completely removes, thus stimulating family farms to inherit and further develop the entire District Norway. In the case of the Home PC scheme, the Workers' Party seems to have forgotten its slogan 'Everybody should join'. The group that does not have access to the PC owned by the employer has been forgotten. Therefore, we retain the home PC scheme for employees who have less than NOK 350 000 in income. Right wants everyone to go with it. So a little comment about the Spanish pensioners. I hope that the Minister of Finance will take with him what the previous speaker said. We should have liked to have supported a proposal from the Progress Party related to RISK. As proposed, we cannot support it because it is within a framework area. But we support it in principle. There was an error from 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2418	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2421	I think it's nice that Right wants everyone to go. But that's not what I should ask Right today. In its alternative budget, the right has several attacks on resources to go to regional development, to industrial development, business start-up and innovation across the country. Right cut half a billion dollars to county councils at a time when county councils will actually have a stronger role to play in development, and 800 million. kr in the funds directly devoted to regional development in the counties. It's a double cut that will affect business development in the districts. I would like to ask the representative of Gundersen if one in the Right is not busy with business development and business start-ups in the districts. The representative of Gundersen is from Hedmark, where we met in the election campaign. Feedback from that audience was probably more intense in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2430	I would like to answer that question. I believe that the main economic development in Norway is to bet on trade and good relations. On the right, there is an increase in the turnover of 1 billion dollars in addition to what the Government has in its budget. As far as the county municipality is concerned, we want to put it down from 2012. So it makes sense that we're starting to cut the transfers to the county municipalities. Besides, I've been close to that tool, and I think by going through it you find that a lot is going to keep a lot of consultants out in the districts, but there isn't going to be a lot of nutrient development out of many of the projects. But it's now a very personal perception. On the right, there will be a great deal of focus on industrial development. We believe in a freer business, and we believe that business needs to be organised through good communication and the ability to develop on its own premises. It is behind the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2441	I'll go a little further on that with transportation. In its observations on the budget, the right-hand side says that they are ‘committed with finding new solutions that can provide faster and more rational development, operation and maintenance’ of transport projects. In its observations, the right claims that the Government’s notified infrastructure building model, namely project financing, has been scrapped. I can reassure the representative, Mr Gundersen, that the model has not been scrapped at all, but that a railway project and two road projects are within the budget. Is it so that the Right can support this kind of project funding? Or is it only OPS, which is a more expensive solution, that is applicable to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2450	I think the Right can support all the innovations related to how we are to get a faster and better development of transport. If the Government is able to fill the concept of project financing with a content that can be understood and that can prove to bring forward transport projects faster than what we have seen now, I think the Right will certainly support it, even if it is not OPS. For the time being, I have not seen that there has been any content in the concept of project financing other than what Prime Minister Stoltenberg said here in a Question Time during the last government period, and that was financing the projects. Then we want to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2456	When the government presented the state budget, the right went to the frontal attack on the budget framework. The budget was too expansive, and we spent too much oil money, it was claimed. There was no way how damaging it was to business. The right would now point away from the oil economy. But when the Right stated its alternative budget, the party spent only slightly 2 billion dollars less than the government. If we correct a little bit of special accounting, there are at best marginal differences in expansion and the use of oil money between the Right's budget and the Government's budget. Today's business therefore calls the difference between life and learning in the Right's budgetary balance embarrassing. The other opposition party has ended up in the same ditch as the Right. They're talking about narrowing down, but they've ended up at the same level as the government when we go behind the number line. Can we now conclude that the opposition does not have an alternative policy for the use of oil money, and that all about vaccination Norway against the oil-dependent economy is empty rhetoric from the Right side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2461	With respect to reporting, the representative must have studied our alternative state budget poorly if he does not see that there are a number of proposals and a completely different turn of the economy than if a mere look at the 2.3 billion. Our tax proposals and savings proposals in the public sector show a completely different direction in the Norwegian economy. I would strongly distance myself from the term'special accounting'. If we had included similar dynamic effects as the Prime Minister expects in the biodiesel debate, we would have been many, many billions under the government's oil money consumption, because we have been very moderate in incorporating dynamic effects of our tax proposals. But we know that the dynamic effects are there, and they are also documented by the Statistical Central Bureau in a report. So we live well with the criticism of our budget in today's business. They're the only ones that criticize us from that side, and someone's going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2466	Just to give an example of the bookkeeping: The right hand hand hand hand side uses the money that is tied to the agricultural negotiations. Is that proper budgetary practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2471	I don't know how to make savings in agriculture visible if you're not going to be able to do that, because agriculture has the special scheme that they're negotiating in the middle of the year. We have voted against it for many years, and we also propose that the agricultural agreement should be coordinated with the budget year. So we have to go inside and visualize what our policy would have done for agriculture. We have a very offensive policy for agriculture. We want to release the farmer more freely, we want to regulate agriculture and give the farmer the opportunity to develop. It's going to provide great opportunities for savings in the public budgets, and I think that's very realistic what we're budgeting for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2476	This is the regulatory time for the next meeting of the morning. The President proposes that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2539	The last year has been marked by the financial crisis and the subsequent recession in the world economy. From the autumn of 2008 and well into 2009, there has been a great risk that the Norwegian economy too would enter a long recession. Many forecasters have become more optimistic about developments in the international economy in recent months. The OECD believes that Norway appears to be the country that is the fastest out of the financial crisis. However, there is considerable uncertainty about the economic development and development of unemployment, as many of the Norwegian businesses, especially in industry, are still struggling. The budget we are dealing with today is well adapted to the current situation. New information on economic developments following the presentation of the national budget is largely in line with the estimates on which the budget was based and shows that it is appropriate to use more oil money than the rule of action refers to next year. The international financial crisis has been very well managed by the Government. The fact that we have held back money in good times has given us opportunities to strongly stimulate the economy during the worst economic downturn since World War II. The budget we are dealing with today bears the mark of continued commitment to work, well-being and climate. The noise surrounding the introduction of biodiesel levy has overshadowed the fact that next year's budget follows up what we have promised to do in very important areas of society. We focus on kindergartens, school and child protection, and we follow up on what we have said about continuing to invest in higher education and research. These are all areas of activity that will ensure the well-being and value of the future. As many people have been involved today, it is now necessary to return to the rule of action regarding the use of oil money. We have a generation contract to fulfill. Our oil wealth will also benefit new generations. It's going to be demanding and will lead to new debates about what we're going to spend the big money on. Several batches in the harvest have boasted that they spend less oil money than the government in their budgets for next year. But on closer inspection it turns out that it is rather doubtful. The Progress Party spends much more oil money in its budget than the Government. Their collection proposals to finance large tax havens and increases in the budget are as unrealistic this year as previous years. What is more surprising, however, is that the Right, which likes to appear very responsible in its economic policy, also has an impact on its tax havens and re-priorities that are not believers. I can give a lot of examples of that. One example is to reduce the budget transfers to agriculture by DKK 1.9 billion, which many people have had in the past. This means that the agricultural agreement Stortinget adopted this summer is set aside. For my family, such a cut would have dramatic consequences, and that overnight. Not only for agriculture but also too many industrial workplaces in dairy, slaughterhouse and mills, this would have been a very difficult situation. Combined with cuts in regional development funds, regional research funds and rural development funds, as well as a sharp reduction in the county authority’s instrumentation, the next year had become a difficult year for large parts of our country – and it is not a believer. Predictability in the framework, which has been a major theme today when the opposition has mentioned the imposition of a biodiesel levy, thus does not apply to all industrial activities in the country. We see that the big money, both in the budgets of the Advance Party and the Right, will be used for tax relief for the richest. For example, the right reintroduces: the stock discount. It will primarily provide tax relief to persons with high incomes because these persons have a larger share of their wealth placed in shares, while persons with lower incomes have placed most of their wealth in bank deposits and housing. Such a policy does not give a distribution profile The working party will stand behind it. We are committed to fulfilling the generational contract, not only by lower oil money usage, but also by ensuring that all people have equal opportunities, wherever they live, what kind of social background they have or how thick the wallet is. We will continue to give priority to the most important, namely work and well-being for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2556	First, I would like to make a little comment on the line change between the Prime Minister and the representative Højbrätten at the morning meeting, for the representative Højbrätten turned to the great heights and referred to the proposition that had gone to Stortinget. But he must have overlooked a letter from the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance on 2 November, which mentions this very point, and which makes the wording exactly in line with the red-green representatives who have said in the debate all day. It's almost unreal to stand here this year and think a year back. A year ago, we were in a situation where we were going to deal with the most severe economic crisis since World War II, marked by very great uncertainty, and with challenges that we had not gone through in the past, for example. in the case of the banking and credit sector. Looking back, we can see that we put the right measures in place at the right time, in the right dimensions, that, fortunately, Norway has achieved better through this financial crisis than most other countries, that we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and that we are going to have the next year. That means that we can see that the medicine that the red-green parties and the government had to fight the financial crisis has worked. It is now part of this discussion that overrides what was the opposition's challenges all the way in these months. It was 'too little, too late' up again and up again. That is not true – it has later been shown. Fortunately, we met with our actions. Thus, we have saved many from a situation of unemployment, loss of income, etc., experienced by people in other countries. I am also pleased with the great efforts we have made in economic policy over four years, which have achieved many of the major, important welfare reforms and policy objectives that we have set ourselves. I am proud of the ship's roof we've taken when it comes to babysitting – I'm going to come back to it a little bit. I am very pleased with the sum of the changes we have made in the distribution policy with regard to the taxes on wealth. And with the valuation of housing in the wealth tax introduced in the context of the treatment of this budget, we have made the property tax a distribution policy instrument that it was not four and five years ago. Then there were very many ordinary pensioners with a paid-down house and a few dollars in the bank who paid significant property taxes. I am pleased with the role Norway has now taken in international environmental negotiations, where we are a leading country, and with the level of assistance. It's not so good to see what it would be like if the red-greens had lost the election when you look at the alternatives from the opposition. What would be the policy to be implemented next year? It would crack in every direction. What we can say is that the distribution profile would be significantly lower. But otherwise, the opposition's exercise is largely opposed to the Government. Finally, let me present one very important challenge that I invite the Stortinget to join in meeting, and that shows that in Norway there are more differences than we like to believe – and greater differences in class related to education than we like to believe. When 30 p.m. Of those who start high school, don't finish after five years, we have a significant problem. Then we have a big challenge in knowledge and education, and then we have a big challenge in distribution. We know that those who complete no more than primary school are the ones who first lose the job if unemployment hits. There is higher sick leave among them; there is significantly higher disability renunciation among them. Now I am responsible for a wealth greater than the State pension fund, namely human capital and 1 million children and young people under 20 years of age. We have a systematic perspective to make sure that as much as possible passes through primary school and is able to complete a secondary education so that we get these non-advanced figures down. If we are able to do so, with systematic work from early work in kindergarten, in high school and in higher education, then we have contributed more to value creation in the future than if the best forecasts for the management of the State pension fund – abroad, or the oil fund – were to hit. It's a job that I look forward to concentrating on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2580	I am glad that the Minister of Knowledge came a little into school at the end of the post, especially the fight against high school drop-outs. In the past, secondary schools had a practical electoral profession, which was removed. This subject seemed very positive, and it had a positive result to refer to. The Government now calls for the introduction of a pilot project with practical work experience. My question is therefore: Does the Council of State recognise the need for more practical and fewer theoretical subjects to enter school, and why do you only want to introduce a pilot project with a long evaluation process rather than introduce it as a permanent scheme, when you know that the action will work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2589	This is a heart issue for me – and it has been for a long time – and I am very happy that the representative from the Progress Party is also concerned about the same thing. We know that those who have weak professional achievements in high school are the ones who are most at risk of dropping out of high school. And many of them would get better in both Norwegian, math and English if they had a more practical approach to the subjects also in high school. I don't think that's just about one practical subject that we're going to try with as an alternative to 2nd foreign languages, but I think that's about the device on how to work with all the subjects in high school. So I have a very strong look and a very clear focus on this. We're going to summarise the experience we have with this practical subject, but we're also going to influence it so that it can be more practical in many subjects in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2596	A good school is a wise and important investment in the welfare of the future. Well-motivated and skilled teacher is the single factor in school with the greatest importance for students' learning. Studies show that seven out of ten teachers believe that they need continuing training in order to do a good enough job. If the Government is serious about providing Norwegian teachers with training to a certain extent, efforts must be stepped up significantly. The right is serious, and we want to bet on quality in school. In our alternative budget, we have proposed a rise of 400 million. kr in addition to continuing training, or a doubling of the Government's proposal. So my question then becomes whether it is not a cross of ideas for Minister of Knowledge Halvorsen that Minister of Finance Halvorsen in his draft budget has not proposed a far greater commitment to the continuing training of teachers, when we know how vital the teacher's competence is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2605	Not at all, because both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Knowledge and everyone else in the red-green project have two thoughts in their heads at the same time. We have a significant commitment to continuing training. It covers the demand that is, it covers the teachers who now want continuing training. A limit on the number of people taking continuing education is, I hear from School-Norway, that they lack temporary staff in the hours when teachers are away to take such training. So the proposal that the red-greens have put forward, and that is in our government platform now, that we need to change the training law so that we ensure more teachers in school, is the answer, so that we can be sure that teachers can make use of continuing education. I have noticed that the Right does not support that proposal, and so it is the Right that hangs around on one leg when it comes to supporting the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2612	On 9 September 2008, the Christian People's Party received a letter from the Minister for the Environment and Development. Let me quote: ‘Before the Government takes its decision on the issue of sales obligations for biofuels, broad and open discussion and involvement of, among others, are desirable. the climate settlement parties on the Stortinget. With this note, I would like to inform the parliamentary leaders of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left of the matter and ask for input into possible solutions.» On 3 December 2008, it was a meeting at the Minister for the Environment's office with the parliamentary leaders. There we agreed that there was a sales order of 2.5 pst. in 2009, and 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. The FIs deny that there is an agreement between the parties from this meeting, 3 December, despite the fact that the Minister for the Environment calls this a happy day for those who are concerned with biofuels. My question is – despite the evasiveness of this letter of creation: Is there an agreement between the climate settlement parties in this area, or is it not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2626	It seems that the opposition quotes different letters in such a way that it could be believed that it was established and determined, without any judgement, that the marketing order should be stepped up to 5 pst. That's not true. The press release that the Minister for the Environment himself sent out after that meeting states that it is addressed, ‘but first the government will assess the climate impact, the EU’s work on developing criteria’, etc. In the section before the representative of the Christian People's Party quotes, the approach is the same. What is important about what the Government has now proposed is that we ensure a trading order of 3.5 pst. for 2010. It ensures the volume of biodiesel that is today, further forward, and we say that we're going to escalate up to 5 pst. and concluded. But of course we have to work on the criteria that are necessary to ensure that biodiesel is an environmentally friendly fuel, because there is a wide variety of types on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2633	I'm not going to quote anything. I've been thinking I'd just talk a little bit about the democratic mindset, because I've always seen the Council of State Halvorsen as a democratically appointed lady who has the sense of public debate, and the sense of popular commitment to matters. When it came to the matter we discussed, and as Line Henriette Hemdal raised, I have to admit that we actually understood the Minister of Finance there that it could be possible to say that this was wrong when it was presented, open up a debate and open up the way for the involvement in the matter. The exposure did not disappear as dew to the sun, either from organisations or from those involved in that market. There came a lot of good arguments, we think in the Left, to do some grip on the very proposal on which you opened the debate. So my question is, was there really no one who had arguments that prompted any of your democratic mindset, that maybe this was the wrong way?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2643	Before the President gives the floor to the Halvorsen State Council, the President will remind the representative of Skei Grande that all the change of words will take place through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2646	There were two objections to the proposal that was put forward, which was that when you get a marketing order, i.e. a blend into the fossil diesel that is, you don't need a tax exemption to stimulate interference. So it's an exchange of instruments, and it's 96 pst. of the volume we're talking about in the case of biodiesel. But there were two objections. One was that the actual incorporation into the normal diesel was higher than the placing on the market requirement. That's why we've also come up with this 3.5 pst signal, which maintains the volume. And then there were objections to high integration, i.e. those who are now trying to run on as clean biodiesel as possible. The last one had demanded a change in the fee. We have not agreed on that. So the first thing we've done is we've done something about it. So there's been a process in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2653	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2656	We've witnessed a world in financial crisis in the last year, and a lot of countries are still struggling. Luckily for Norway we found too many, many years ago oil, which has enabled us to export this to the rest of the world. The same thing about gas, and not least: we are a nation rich in fish – this, in addition to many other natural resources and our industry. Exports and trade in these goods make us pretty much water in money -- we're one of the richest countries in the world. So we're better off with this crisis than most people -- this is because we've been able to sell our goods to the rest of the world. It has made us a very rich country by means of market forces, free trade and trade with other nations. Then we have other countries – the poorest country in the world. They also have natural resources. They also have sought-after products that Norwegian industry more than likes to import to Norwegian consumers, and that a founder in a developing country would very much like to export to Norwegian consumers. But what meets, for example, goods from Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Congo, Vietnam, Moldova, Kenya and the developing country Pakistan? Yes, sky high customs walls. Talk about immoral politics! Let's look at Pakistan. It's a country to which we actually have relationships in many ways. One of the largest immigrant groups in Norway comes from just Pakistan, which has resulted in many exotic restaurants and street kitchens in Norway, established by Pakistani entrepreneurs who want to trade more between Norway and Pakistan. We even have Norwegian politicians going down to Pakistan to run a campaign! However, providing for more trade between Norway and Pakistan, for example by: removing customs duties on goods from Pakistan – no, the red-green government will not. Nor have Norwegian taxpayers been sent to Muslim religious schools in Pakistan, which have recently been closed down by the Pakistani authorities because they were too extreme in their teaching. It's a shame. But to stimulate more trade between two nations by removing the customs barriers, one obviously does not see the benefits of, although all experience shows that it not only gets poor countries out of poverty, but actually also prevents wars between nations. There is plenty of research, reports, textbooks and other evidence that concludes that the best way to get people out of poverty is free trade. It is essential to ensure economic growth and increased well-being. If anyone in this room disagrees, they can take the floor and we can have a debate on it. But no one disagrees with that anymore. So why don't we, Parliament in the richest country in the world, do anything about it? Do we not have a responsibility to facilitate everything that the world's poorest country can sell its goods to us, without nationalistic, selfish customs walls around Norway – a country that itself has become rich because of trade with other countries? It is a crossroads that today Norway is the world's second worst country to trade with the third world We are only turned off by Switzerland. How does it make a red-green government feel? Nevertheless, you are voting against removing all customs duties from the third world. Consider whether developing countries in Africa had increased their share of world trade by only 1 pst. Then it would be more than five times as much as the whole of Africa receives in aid. Consider whether Norway could have the goal of being the world's best trading country and not working with beaks and claws, with huge subsidies, and high customs walls around Norway up to several hundred percent to prevent foreign companies from competing with Norwegian businesses. How unfair is it really to a poor and innovative founder in a poor country? There is also some cleaning up in what I call unnecessary excise duties and old-fashioned customs duties, customs duties which represent a minimum income for the state and cannot be justified by protecting Norwegian agriculture or industry. Why could there not be a cross-political agreement to remove customs duties on a number of products not produced in Norway? I see no reason why there should be customs duties on olives, maize, sweet corn, peach, peanut butter, peanuts, cocoa or powdered powder. You could have a cross-political agreement on that. For example, why should this be done? be great on my tie or my shirt? If someone can answer that, I look forward to such an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2682	From chemistry to work: giving people a job is the best way to reduce social differences and prevent poverty. Our labour force is our most important resource. It's the one to secure the value creation to secure the future Velferds-Norway. Therefore, work for all jobs is no. 1 for the Government. When we took over the government offices in 2005, the unemployment rate was higher than for a long time. After three years of red-green government with full focus on employment, it drastically decreased, and before the financial crisis came to an end, unemployment in Norway was the lowest in over 20 years. We're not going to forget that. Our starting point is the best in Europe, but the financial crisis will have a greater impact on Norway too. The availability will increase to next year. Therefore, the main task of the Government remains to limit that increase. We have to get those who get out of work, who go out of work, back to work quickly. Long-term unemployment must not be allowed to get married. This is why we are strengthening labour market measures in the next year's budget with 3,000 new action sites. Therefore, we strengthen the long-term unemployment guarantee, and therefore we improve the regulatory framework for the use of intra-corporate training. Therefore, those who live on the minimum benefits of popular security are getting increased their benefits in May. That is why we continue to focus on the Qualification Programme and put it into practice across the country, so that more people can get out of poor living conditions and poverty and into activity and work. Next year, 10,000 people will contribute to the community through that programme instead of being outside. So we're going to adopt a budget that's going to keep unemployment low, while we're going to take care of those who have it tough now, and those who are going to experience it. The opposition has a different policy. Instead of strengthening our tool to help social welfare beneficiaries enter the labour market, the Progress Party virtually eliminates the entire Qualification Programme. They belong to the tools for prevention and supervision in the workplace. They will not be involved in setting up regional protection agencies. They remove the training aid scheme for lone dependants. They're cutting in extra social security. This is unsocial cuts in employee schemes and in the possibilities of getting people to work. It's just classical right-wing policy. As if that were not enough, the Progress Party operates with magic when it budgets with less expenditure in the field of social security. Overall, they cut social security by $8.9 billion. According to the budget of the Progress Party, the number of insured persons will decrease by re-assessing their working capacity and thus returning to work quickly. However, such a reduction in expenditure requires that 56 000 people who are partially unemployed should get a job before 1 January, i.e. over the next five weeks, or that 130 000 people get a job before the summer. It is totally unrealistic when we know that 90 000 people with disabilities are already in line for jobs but are not allowed to enter the labour market. In addition, such a review of working skills will take time, and then you're going to get people to work. But the Progress Party is already budgeting with such savings in 2010. The adoption of people into the labour market or writing them fresh overnight is not possible, and that makes these savings to the Progress Party totally unrealistic. The realistic option is that the Progress Party will have to cut the performance of people in order to implement such savings. If they did, it would, for example. meant 4 300 kroner less to live for a lone minimum pensioner. If it is not to be cut in the benefits of people, the Progress Party will have to force people back to jobs that do not exist and that they cannot create from the party's overall budget profile either. The Progress Party should be honest and tell its voters how the budget is linked. Who's gonna suffer? The government has a different profile. We build bridges to get people back to work through qualification, action and increased employment. We're going to adopt a budget that's going to ensure still low leave, that keeps people in work, and that's going to take care of those who experience the absence of the body.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2712	The President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy used the occasion under the throne to state that the Government has resigned from the Storting. The Prime Minister said in the throne debate that he hoped for good cooperation with the Stortinget, knowing well that his previous government was accused of power arrogance and very poor cooperation with the Stortinget. Since the Government submitted proposals to the government budget, it was therefore expected that the Stortinget would have the opportunity to improve the budget along the way, both by the government being able to support good proposals from the opposition, and also to help the government's 86 depositors to do something. It has not happened at all and is contrary to the President's call to the Prime Minister of the country. Johan Sverdrup said the following: «All power in this hall.» Now it is: All power in the first row of this hall. They don't have the right to vote in this room, and one of them doesn't even have constitutional responsibility for the Storting, and many report defaults to Storting's Question Time. Today we have had a round in which Lundtägen and Stoltenberg individually have given us a déjà vu in relation to the hen-elected parliamentarianism of 1961. Then, according to Wikipedia, the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Nils Hönnvald, said the following: ‘Some representatives of the Workers’ Party may never vote in favour of a bourgeois motion of censure addressed to the government of their own party. If, for any reason, the Workers' Party wishes to change the Government's constitution or change in the Government's composition, this desire is promoted otherwise than by an open vote of censure in the Stortinget.» Stoltenberg has clearly developed the concept of ‘the proudly-based parliamentarism’. For the right, it is important to use the budget and fiscal policy not only to provide the country with direct revenues, which Helga Pedersen had in mind today, but also to contribute to economic development, environmentally friendly behaviour and the introduction of new industries. The government announced in the State budget that Norway is going better than previously expected, but has not been able to reduce the use of oil money. On the right, it seems serious that the country’s government has never spent more money than in this budget, and at the same time will not spend a single penny in tax relief. In the Right we fear that this will affect future jobs and new businesses. The right considers that the inheritance tax poses many challenges for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a tax on things that have been fully taxed in the past over several generations, whether it be commercial buildings, cabins, cars, movables, cash or securities. Therefore, on a principle, the right-hand side believes that it is wrong to tax ownership of dead people again one last time. In addition, the inheritance fee carries unnecessary red tape in connection with inheritance planning, legal assistance and work for already busy equality workers, who say they have too much to do and need more resources. Therefore, the right wants to simplify the succession and to remove the inheritance fee, for both business and private individuals, as from 1 January 2010. For many family-owned small businesses, this will be important. For many, the inheritance fee will contribute to the fact that it is not appropriate to take over the company. It becomes too expensive, or you have to sell parts of the company, so that it decreases in value, to pay the inheritance fee. The right will have charges that stimulate enterprises, not charges that prevent local Norwegian ownership through a cold government charge. Also for private people who are going to inherit their parents' houses and cabins, it will be so much inheritance to pay that instead you have to sell your childhood home, where many fine memories and moments are created. The rise in the price of dwellings and cabins in recent years has made it impossible for many tenants to take over cabins. Especially along the sea is thus reminiscent of bathing from the edge of the bridge, fishing from the boat and hunting small crabs in the rocks a good reserved for the richest. In Norway today, a growing proportion of Norwegian waste is transported in trailers to Sweden. Much of it is used in Swedish combustion plants instead of top-notch clear combustion plants in Norway. An overall industry has written many letters to Stortinget with concern that not enough waste will be delivered to Norwegian plants, while we know that it will reduce the investment willingness to build new plants after the landfill ban was enforced this year. The right considers that tax relief is also better in this area, which at the same time results in reduced trailer traffic on Norwegian roads, than that the Government makes use of the possibility, which they open up in the State budget, namely to ask the SFT to assess the export ban. Then it is better to use the charging policy. Sweden has decided to remove that charge from next year. This further weakens Norwegian competitiveness in a Nordic market, in which it is important to have equivalent conditions of competition. The incineration charge is designed to undermine the development of the Norwegian district heating industry, with the usual red-green disregard for the needs of companies for capital and human knowledge, just as in the case of biodiesel. In addition, when we know that many of these plants use natural gas as a source of supplementation, and this levy has also been re-emphasised in the budget of the year, the framework conditions, in sum, become too poor for this industry as well. The development of energy recovery and district heating capacity has been a long-term political wish. This has been followed up by several municipalities, and even more municipalities are now working to find common regional solutions to a major national problem. There are often discussions about land selection, energy outlets, but also about the total investment and operating costs that make the project life-creating. In fact, the charging policy has a lot to say. Many have come back to Stortinget and told us that this fee means that it will end up in Sweden instead of in Norwegian places. At the same time, it is the same thing that we say in relation to the gas tax that the Government is now introducing. It has been important for the Storting to facilitate the development of the Norwegian gas-based industry on land. This has led to the emergence of good infrastructure in large parts of the West. As we see in the biodiesel tax case, when things start to work, the tax comes. It has been Right-wing policy to contribute to facilitating the establishment of the Norwegian gas-based industry. That is why we are voting against the Government's proposal and are going for a significantly lower sum, i.e. a halved sum in relation to the Government's proposal. The tax exemption has helped to develop Norwegian industry and ensure that Norway uses gas in line with other European countries, although Norway has a long way to go, despite being the gas capital of Europe. The right considers that the competitive edge of the gas against alternative energy is very limited, and we will therefore facilitate the continued contribution of gas to the reduction of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions in the future. Without a charge, gas has actually uncompetitive oil as an energy source, and the Right therefore believes that the Government’s tax increase is too large and will have unintended negative consequences for Norwegian gas and environmental policies. The combustion tax, the gas tax and the biodiesel tax are just a few examples where the Right understands industrial and environmental policy better than the Government. It is the case that both the combustion tax, the gas tax and the biodiesel tax are in jeopardy in the wheels of Norwegian industrial development, Norwegian industry development and new Norwegian jobs that we are in danger of losing just in the period we need it the most. Then it is that, in relation to the environmental aspect, we have tried to create a car package in the Right, because we have a political desire to convert the car park into more environmentally friendly fuels in general and that more people should buy and use electric cars. The right view is that development is too slow, even if it is moving forward, and we want to facilitate the use of electric cars even cheaper. That is why, in our alternative draft budget, we have said that we want VAT exemptions for the leasing of batteries in electric cars. We want a VAT exemption for the leasing of electric cars, both private and company cars, including rental cars, which are often a gateway to new car use. The main proposal is that, together with the Christian People's Party, we will use the charging system considerably more strongly to stimulate the distortion of the purchase of cars, away from cars with high greenhouse gas emissions to cars with significantly lower emissions. The size is known to have developed an action plan for electrification of road transport, which it is called so fine. Right wants to use this. We have proposed NOK 30000 in support of anyone who buys electric cars or rechargeable hybrid cars, well to mark in classes N1 and M1, until there are 50,000 such cars in Norway. The government has created a budget that is more environmentally hostile, which is not invested in the environmentally friendly industry and which has major ring-fences in terms of competence, investment and new profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2759	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2762	I want to follow up on something that I took up in an article a little earlier this evening. It's about the right as a party, which likes to present itself as a responsible party in terms of economic policy. In the next year's budget, Right-wing tax cuts of DKK 6 billion, booked 2010 impact, and an increase, expenditure increase, amounting to DKK 4.4 billion. In my view, the implications of the Right's draft budget are problematic. This applies, inter alia, to: reduction in agricultural production, more unspecified assumptions and little concrete measures to reduce expenditure in the budget. My question to the representative Arve Kambe is whether he thinks that the Right's budget is in line with sound budgetary practice, as is the case with a responsible party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2771	Fortunately, I can assure the representative that this is the case. The right is a financially responsible party. In fact, we're using less oil money than what the red-green government is doing -- despite the red-greens telling society that one really shouldn't have. In fact, in the state budget – and in the context of the position of the Financial Committee, which is being discussed now – the Minister of Finance should have come up with a balancing package, where we could have made changes. The right has proposed significant tax reductions that we believe will have a dynamic tax effect and thus will have a positive effect on tax accounting. The representative also knows that just such numbers as this are very difficult to make in a government budget, because you have to see years a year. In addition, we have a significant cut in the county council, in state administration, and we're trying to do significantly more than the government is doing to reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2778	The representative is busy with the budget balance. In earlier reports from the Right, it has been said that the Right wants to vaccinate Norway against Dutch sick people and against becoming dependent on oil, and they have gone high on the path, bearing in mind that the government budget was too expansive. Then they set themselves up with a budget that's puzzled 2 billion dollars less, which is completely marginal and at best in line with their government, if we correct for some creative bookkeeping. At the same time, this point comes, to make Norway independent of oil, from a party that talks about the fact that they are going to operate oil exploration and oil drilling outside the Lofoten and the Vestral, and thus delay the conversion of the Norwegian oil-based industry. Can we then talk about the fact that Right will make us independent of the oil and oil industries? It's rather the opposite of what the Right does in its budget, in relation to the rhetoric they're trying to put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2783	If the representative from SV believes that the Right will make the Norwegian economy oil independent, he is completely wrong. Actually, it's the other way around. It is precisely SV, represented by the representative and a former Minister of Finance, who has been so dependent on other parties wanting to invest in the oil sector, so that SV has been able to spend the money a little too heavily over too many years, both from the Parliamentary Chair and in the Ministry of Finance corridors. Fortunately, there has been a change in that. In the Right's alternative budget, in relation to Dutch sick people, we see the challenges, and we want to slow down the growth of the public sector, in the State sector, in the county sector and, in part, in the municipal sector. In fact, we want to spend a lot of money to remove the inheritance tax, reduce the property tax and keep the depreciation rates that the SV representative actually agreed to a few months ago. We believe that we need to strengthen Norwegian jobs and thus generate future government revenues, we need to actually do something about the private jobs, and not always do what the Swedish Federation and the Swedish Federation want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2791	The representative Kambe uses strong words against the Government and now extra strong words against the SV, that the Government is unable to reduce the use of oil money, as opposed to the Right. I fully agree that right-wing measures to propose significant tax reductions, so the lack of revenue is in place in the Right-wing proposal. On the other hand, when it comes to cost reductions, it's not in place. I've asked before about the $2,146 million allocation. kr to agriculture in 2010, resulting from an agreement. My question is: Is there examples of other traders in the Right's Budget where the Right's reduction in appropriations is, where the majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted a commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2796	This is probably the fourth time Lundtigen asks the Right representatives today. He's going to get roughly the same answer. So that's how the right has had alternative arrangements for the agricultural agreement in the years we've been in opposition. We have also said that we want to change the agricultural agreement and let it follow the calendar year. Then it is that in the Right's alternative agricultural policy we have, among other things. Measures to lift the obligation to live, we have lifted the price controls on agricultural properties, we want to reduce the support, we want to stimulate co-operation, we want to let the municipalities themselves decide over the regulatory planning authorities, and we want farmers to have the opportunity to develop additional industries – which I think Lundtigen might be involved in, but as others in his government coalition do not allow the Senterpartiet to participate. So I think that the right total has a sustainable agricultural policy. Then I would like to remind the representative Lundtigen that the difference between the Right and the Centre in agricultural policy is less than between the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2805	I want to grasp some of what the representative, Mr. Kambe, mentioned both in his post and in the line change, namely strengthened Norwegian jobs. The representative comes from an area that is strongly represented by shipping companies and seafarers, and in this area I have the impression that very many people are satisfied with the net pay scheme. However, the Right writes that there are ‘good arguments to limit the net pay scheme’. You also write that Norwegian seafarers are a resource for the shipping companies, and I can probably add for myself that they are resources far beyond that. Based on the government's proposal for a government budget, you write, you want to limit the reimbursement payment per. employed at NOK 120 000, or NOK 125 000 – you write both parts, as appropriate. This is a cut of 610 million. kr in the net pay scheme. What are the good arguments for proposing such a cut, and why does the Right propose such a cut now, when this industry might go into a very rough time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2812	The right-hand side is familiar with this. Opheim has heard of what is called highway robbery, as the government has actually done the art of being sued by a total industry. During the night, more than 10 billion kroner were taken from the shipping companies – who voted against the Right – which now have to be involved in legal proceedings. As far as the shipping companies are concerned: I was in a meeting with the Shipowners' Association yesterday – perhaps it should also have been the representative of Opheim, but he did not find the time to prioritize it. But there it was said that it was the property tax that was important for the shipping companies to get rid of. The inheritance fee: The representative Opheim probably knows that many of the shipping companies in Norway are family-owned, and the inheritance fee means a lot to them. The depreciation rates mean a lot to them. So it's like the net pay system that Right supports, and the shipping tax that Right supports, has a different impact than what the Workers' Party is in favour of – which has also cut in recent years. So the government hired Econ to evaluate the net pay scheme, and the government – at these times when you need money – doesn't hire anyone to expand a scheme. So we're talking about the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2824	Two months ago, the United Nations Development Programme presented a report that once again designated Norway as the world’s best country to live in. The report has hardly been mentioned in our domestic debate. Is it a matter of course that Norway is at the top of such a union? Well, our Icelandic neighbors who peaked at the crew last year hardly see the level of well-being as a matter of course. Is our location a result of coincidences – that we found the oil? No, no, no. Many countries are rich in oil and other natural resources, but it does not always benefit the population. On the contrary, too often we see that wealth is reserved for a small minority. Our welfare is a result of conscious choices, of political choices, where we have ensured that our common wealth benefits the entire population, where we have been aware that it is by having many people at work that we both create well-being – and prevent poverty, and where we have deliberately chosen to prioritise better common well-being for the many rather than tax havens where the wealthy get the most. This budget builds up under it. We build society further, while our focus is on securing jobs – now and in the future. It is interesting to note that the debate on this year’s budget has been about a small change in fees – in this context – and does not claim that the Government does not address the challenges. But then we might have become a little bit numerically blind by the billions. Where we saw a few years ago a few hundred million in increase as a big boost, now billions of increase are being seen as common. But that's not it. When the road budget increases by NOK 2.6 billion and the rail budget by NOK 1.3 billion, it is historic. The road budget is increased by one-quarter, and the appropriations for the Railway Agency are increasing by nearly one-fifth – in one year! The revenue of the local government sector is actually increased by DKK 8 billion, the free revenues alone by NOK 4.2 billion. It's a massive commitment to well-being. The cultural budget is raised to a level of approximately DKK 2.7 billion higher than in 2005. For the next year alone, the increase is over 800 million. kr. The recording at the Police College is doubled compared to 2006. This government is committed to well-being because it has the will and ability to prioritise well-being — rather than tax havens. After all, taxpayers’ money cannot be used at the same time for well-being. That's why it's a choice. The financial crisis has marked the whole year that is soon behind us. The government has met the challenge, and the results in Norway are therefore limited. But the crisis is not over. Unemployment is expected to continue to rise again next year. As a result, the Government is continuing many measures to reduce increased unemployment. In such a situation, a cautious additional stimulus is appropriate. But in order to spend more money in worse times, it is necessary to spend less in better times. As the outlook improves and growth in the Norwegian economy rises, it is therefore necessary to bring the budgets back to the 4 pst track. Therefore, the main challenge in the future is not linked to increased appropriations for different good purposes. The challenge is to secure jobs and to ensure that we use the labour force we have. Our well-being depends on our having our goods sold in competition with business in other countries. Then we have to avoid a strange increase in costs, and we have to avoid a separate strengthening of the Norwegian krona. On the contrary, we must be quite clear that the rule of action is anchored for our budgetary policy. It confronts us with difficult choices in the years to come. Policy is to want, but politics is also to choose – to give priority to what is most important. Secondly, the challenge is to increase absenteeism from the workforce through increased disability and increased sick leave. We need to consider carefully how we can make arrangements, so that more people can work, while those who are sick, of course, have full pay under illness. Both of these challenges require that we benefit from one of the strongest qualities of the Norwegian social model: close cooperation between authorities, workers and employers. The government invites such cooperation to reduce sick leave, but also to meet the challenges of economic policy. It is through such cooperation that the Government can further the development of the Norwegian welfare society while providing the best basis for increased value creation and development of our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2847	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2850	It is nice finally to have the opportunity to ask questions to the rainy minister – or was it the Minister for Coordination? It's a little hard to get this right, but I think it's now the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office. I have three questions: does the Council of State think it is nice to come here to the Storting? The next question is, does he intend to come here often? My last question is: does he think he has coordinated the work of the Government's biodiesel tax in a good way in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2857	The answer to all the questions is yes. I think it's very nice to be in Stortinget. I have, as I know, been a representative for 24 years and I think it is a great task for a Council of State to answer the questions that the Storting has, among other things. through this type of general debate. Whether to come often – yes, as the Prime Minister has said, it is natural that I take part in general debates such as this debate, where there is also an opportunity to ask questions. And yes, the government's treatment of the budget has been, as the Prime Minister said, in a very common way, involving the various size groups, which are common. I can assure you that we will take care of that kind of coordination also in the course of the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2866	I would also like to say that it is nice to see again Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen here. You might have been the most long-awaited state council here. We've asked and asked, but you didn't want to come to the quiz or anything else. Let me say one thing: for a politician, one of the things that happen sometimes is that you meet yourself at the door. The most important thing is that you might recognize yourself. Now the Council of State made a statement that was not far from any posts he made when he was Minister of Finance in 2001, when we adopted the rule of action. I often hear workers' party representatives who stick to the rule of action, but rarely at the contents of what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen said to Stortinget when we adopted the rule of action, namely that we should use this to act – for school, education, knowledge and competence, for lower taxes and for investments in infrastructure. Does the minister feel that he knows himself again when he meets himself in the swing door?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2875	Let me first stress that of course I am at my disposal to answer the questions that are under my responsibility. It was just supposed to be missing. Although in our neighbouring country, Sweden has had a similar government function as the one I was asked to take, all the way back from the 1960s, I have great respect for the fact that this is a new focus in Norway. As I said, I have been in the Storing for 24 years, and of course I have a great deal of respect for the control function that the Storing has, and like the other government, will contribute to the best possible performance of the Storing, which I believe is also organised through the correspondence between the Presidency and the Prime Minister. So to the specific question, yes, as I said, there is a massive commitment to transport in this budget. There is a commitment to education, and through it we have laid a good foundation for the further development of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2885	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State. After this day there is no doubt that this government needs a Minister of Coordination. I want to challenge the Council of State specifically on biodiesel. We know that the Environment Minister sent notes, called to a meeting, and he wrote among others. one aimed at a reasonably rapid clearance with a final decision. At its meeting on 3 December 2008, it was decided that the turnover component should be 2,5 pst. in 2009 and 5 pst. from 1 July 2010. As I know the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister may not have known about this process when he went to the Chair of the Trade Union's meeting this week and proclaimed 3.5 pst. in 2009. Therefore, my question is, how will the Minister of Coordination coordinate, so that the Prime Minister is not embarrassed, as we have experienced this week?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2894	As the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office, I participate in the government's proceedings in the same way as the other government councils, and I can assure the representative that the government is very concerned about following up the various agreements with the Storting, and that it has a lot of attention when the Stortinges deal with these kinds of cases. That is why it is also important for the Prime Minister to explain in a reply earlier today, when he referred to the formulations of the climate agreement, which is based on drawing conclusions after hearing the consultation round that has been held. The corrected letter on the content of the proposition sent by the Minister of Finance to the Storting states that the requirement will be further assessed, based on an assessment of the climate impact, etc., and the sustainability criteria. It is therefore important to stress that the EU process aims to implement sustainability criteria from 2011, as far as I am aware. That's why there's an ambitious goal for the government to follow up the climate deal, by targeting the equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2899	The Minister at the Prime Minister's office said in response to the representative, Siv Jensen, that he had coordinated the budget well both with the big groups and with the Government. There's an interesting information for us in the opposition, because that means that this is a government council that relates to the position's clusters and not the opposition's clusters. We in the Left would very much like all government councils to be called in to the Storting and explain the various questions we are asking. In this it is a fundamental parliamentary drive for us to be more liberal at least. So now I'd like to ask, through the President, if it's possible for the Council of State to formulate a question as we should have formulated it so that this Council of State actually came in question-time and answered. How can the Council of State imagine that the question should have been formulated? We've tried a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2906	Now I am absolutely sure that the representative himself has a good basis for assessing what questions she wants to ask government councils. It is true that the Government in respect of the Storting is careful that the person responsible for the various matters is also the one who gives the Storting an answer. You have to get answers from someone who's constitutionally responsible. Of course, the Prime Minister will take care of matters in Stortinget. In his letter to the Presidentship of Stortinge, the Prime Minister has also stressed that it may be matters as it is natural for me to respond in my function. At the same time, we must respect that I do not have my own responsibility in the Government, such as. the Minister of Knowledge or the Minister for the Environment. That is why, in many contexts — yes, in most contexts — it is right that the question be referred to the person with constitutional and parliamentary responsibilities in this area, in line with normal practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2913	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2916	The debate today has not distinguished significantly from previous financial debates. It has been strongly affected by this with fuel and by the interesting vote you are going to have tonight. But then we have a clarification, and I think that is very honest, by the representative Lundteg, who has clearly stated that here the Prime Minister and the Workers' Party have used cabinet questions and put SV and the Senter party in a situation where they have to vote for something they are opposed to. I think that's very good to get out of the debate. And then we'll see how it turns out at a later point. Nor has the debate distinguished itself from previous debates by the fact that the budget of the Progress Party has been under review again. I recognize the vast majority of arguments and claims that have come into this kind of debate as well. It simply means that everyone else who is not represented in the Progress Party can do better with our alternative budget. The representative of SV Andersen was so clear and clear that she said in a row that our fiscal spokesperson, Ulf Leirstein, was at least not right in our budget. She had better handle that. All the others who have commented on the budget of the Progress Party have simply said that it is unrealistic. Yeah, we've heard that before. But what it should be about now is what is responsible. I am absolutely sure that the budget presented by the Government, which the Storting will adopt, is directly irresponsible – irresponsible in the sense that it does not take the necessary action, irresponsible in the sense that one does not want to start a process that will at some point force itself to get structural changes to get more people out of business, to get more unemployed in the job, to step up the health effort to get more workers into work, to get a flexible labour market, to do something about an unhindered, naive immigration policy. There is nothing to be done in these areas, even though Minister Schjött-Pedersen has now clearly referred to the United Nations report that it is so great to live in Norway. I have studied this report from the United Nations. I think others should do the same. It is clear that if you use all the resources in the country and the resources in Norway, and divide it by the number of inhabitants in Norway, it looks very good. But that's not what happens. That is why you need to have additional charges, more charges. I hear the Prime Minister says that we have to have these charges, if not so bad with health, school, infrastructure, etc. etc. How large should this bag of government be to satisfy the red-greens and to address the challenges of infrastructure, health, care for the elderly and school? How much money do you have to spend without thinking about structural changes? I also record that the budget is unimpaired in terms of infrastructure. You also boast about the effort that comes in the field of justice. Next year's debate will be fun, when they have now raised the justice side by NOK 1.3 billion – and then everything will be resolved. I had a case yesterday that is the result of this budget, and that the government does not take over. You say you have to build a prison in Halden, and then there are enough prisons – that's just what you've been arguing about. Now you drive the custody prisoner across the country. In addition, young people are allowed to sit on smooth cells for several days. Yesterday, a desperate mother called me. Her 25-year-old son had been sitting on a smooth cell for seven days because he didn't have custody. That is the result of irresponsible policies. On the investment side, there's almost nothing for the police. If you talk to the directorate, they say it should be taken off the operating budget. I'm sure the criminal justice chain isn't at all connected. If you are going to produce more on the prison side and take more criminals, you will also have to raise the budget for the courts, for example. That's not going to happen. But you spend as much money as you've never done before! I am sure that when we have the financial debate next year, the 2011 budget, the situation will unfortunately be exactly the same in terms of health, school and infrastructure, and in terms of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2937	It is such that we in Norway have a predictable framework for the political debate. That's what I think has become more and more clear in recent years. The opposition is running a front with the media towards the position. As a rule, speaking time only allows the position to explain its own policy. But today there is a golden opportunity to go a little closer to the opposition's policy in the seams. That's why I'm not going to let go of me. The Progress Party has in its alternative state budget its habit of putting its faith on with great tax relief. In total, this amounts to approximately DKK 18 billion in lost income for the community. Now the Progress Party is not so concerned with the community, so it's not so surprising. As usual, it's those who have the most, who will get the most relief. The ones with over 3 million. gross income kr will benefit from reliefs of more than DKK 100000. Neither is this, as usual, a policy that serves most people. What is new is that in this budget, the Progress Party is trying to camouflage how much oil money they actually want to spend with their alternative proposal. The Progress Party has been standing on this platform a number of times and has spoken warmly about the need for the budget to focus on multi-annual implications, but this clearly does not apply to them themselves. In their proposal, they include significant revenues from the sale of government property without specifying the buildings in question. And you can't know what possible rental costs the state will get in 2011 because you don't have the necessary building mass. In addition, many tax reliefs will have significantly greater effects from 2011 onwards. So how the Progress Party is going to cover this up is in the blue, at least for all of us. It is also the case that some of the containment proposals that are being promoted are unrealistic as they appear in the budget. These include: based on a significant reduction in the cost of unpaid pay, sick pay and daily allowances, without indicating what to do or how to do so. It doesn't just keep adopting it, it's rule-driven expenditure. It is also a germ of concern, all the time we know that the Progress Party is the party that wants considerably more regulated expenditure. In sum, there is a picture of the alternative budget of the Progress Party which is not realistic and not in line with good budgetary practice. When it is also known that the Progress Party is proposing to remove the existing toll debt of DKK 12 billion in connection with the re-balancing of the current budget, it is understood that the oil money is still flowing out at a pace that no other party can attend. I want to do the right-wing representative Sanner's words from last year's chronology debate to my own: «economic experiments», «casinoliberalism», «distribute television billions» and «keeps in mind and hopes that everything will go over» – that was the unusually precise description that Mr Sanner gave of the Economic Policy of the Progress Party a year ago, and I want to claim that it is still valid. What about the Right Alternative proposal? Well, they also run in a familiar style, with tax reliefs for those who have the most from before. The reintroduction of the share discount is such an example. Otherwise, they're going to have more than three million. kr in gross income with the Right Budget receive a tax relief of approximately NOK 75 000. The lowest income will normally get a few hundred dollars. This is classic right-wing policy and nothing surprising. On the other hand, I am surprised that the Right, who is trying to sell itself as a somewhat boring but responsible party, has a proposal for containment that is quite problematic. I believe that the exodus that has been heard today when it comes to e.g. the agricultural agreement, does not keep water. Yeah, it's almost embarrassing to see how to get involved in that case. Is this what the Right believes with a predictable framework for business, or is agriculture not part of business? I have some doubts about what to say to the hundreds of thousands who are employed either directly in the primary or secondary industries, preparing food in Norway. I would also say that it is a pretty damp freedom the right offers the farmer. It is in the budgetary work of the parties that the priorities are considered to be the most important. This is where you see your policy in practice. It is also here that there will be real debates between the parties. This year, too, we saw real differences between the parties. We see that the opposition cracks more than ever. We see that the Progress Party and the Right will take away from the community to give to those who have the most from before. It is clear that the Progress Party still has a self-understanding of economic policies that none of the other responsible parties can participate in. What is particularly problematic about the fact that the largest opposition party does not deal with realistic economic policies is that there is no real political debate on priorities. It is, after all, through good debate and disunity that we can get the proper political lines forward. I am happy to belong to a party that takes responsibility for the state's revenue seriously, so that we can maintain a good welfare state, where the community can finance the solutions and contribute to the security of the individual. It also means that sometimes you have to stand firm to defend the necessary revenues for this fissure layer. It cannot be left to populists, because then the welfare state will crumble.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2958	The Minister of Knowledge and other representatives of the government parties have criticised our alternative budget. It's not surprising all the time we re-prioritize the only school effort the government has had in recent years. The special thing is maybe you're trying to represent it as a billionaire. It is legitimate to criticise the Christian People's Party for our priorities, but then you have to deal with facts. It is true that the Christian People's Party will have a different school policy than the government has proposed. The government prioritizes several hours in front of more teachers, the Christian People's Party will bet on more teachers and even better teachers. There is no evidence that several hours in school provide better students. This was evident in an interview in VG during the campaign with 1st amanuensis in pedagogics at the Educational Research Institute at the University of Oslo, Christian W. Beck. He said: ‘The main problem with today’s school policy is that you get all day school. The students get tired and want to go home. The research shows that 20 hours of school in the week at primary school are good. There is no evidence that more schools provide better students. On the contrary, long school days weaken the quality of all education.’ In spite of this, the government has spent a billion dollars increasing the number of hours for the very smallest. The Christian People's Party proposes to cut five hours the government added into the previous period, plus the hour that is added now and the eight free SFO hours. This priority is a general settlement with the school policy that has been pursued in the last five years, and which seems to continue as long as there is a red-green government in power. We're showing with our budget what one could do out of bets at school if not the only charity was to spend more hours. Instead of increasing hours, we will be able to increase teacher density, quality development in high school, actions related to voluntary community and voluntary counselling, which would also apply to districts, action posts to limit the drop-out in secondary education, attempts at introduction years for newly-trained teachers and attempts at practical theory in high school — to mention something. The budget adopted today also continues the government's lack of investment in the university and higher education sectors. For the sector, it is particularly provocative that this has happened at a time when there has been a adventurous growth in the Norwegian economy, but where the large space of action is not used to secure the future through research and education. The university and higher education sectors are still struggling with low basic appropriations following the government's rest cuts. We are therefore proposing to increase the basic appropriations by 175 million. kr in line with the wishes of the sector and create 100 new scholarship positions. We are also going in to get a decision on 11 months of study support to help government parties follow up their lot programmes. The government has systematically also de-prioritized the appropriations for the Norwegian Church over several years. As a result, several dioceses, due to the government's lack of appropriations, will have to cut posts. They must leave positions on the alert, cancel religious services and, perhaps the most unworthy, postpone funerals. I mean, it's the People's Church government is at risk when it doesn't correct the serious economic situation. The Minister of the Church was honest at the Church meeting this year and said that the few million who came into being this year were for the first time a plus on the church budget, and not just redistribution. The announcements The Stortinget has received from the church through the hearings have been unusually strong and clear. Despite the hearings and the visibility of the realities, the government has done nothing. This concerns a major problem, which is not the time to take full advantage of this debate, namely the possibility for society to be able to influence the policy to be adopted by the European Parliament at the end of the year. In fact, many of these things are adopted on the back of the government building. Later this evening we will be fully demonstrated when representatives from the government parties will press the yes button and vote against their own convictions after having received a directive from the government. But we've also seen it at the hearings, and it might be more serious. The government representatives are accepting the recordings that are coming, they're seriously nodding and saying that this sounds very interesting, but we all know that here it's not going to happen any change. Are these really being fooled? This is a serious problem, not just for the Storting, but for the whole of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e2982	Both as Minister of Local and Regional Affairs and the Central Party Leader, I am satisfied with the soundness of the state budget, which is currently being handled in the Stortinget. The government is making a good contribution to local welfare, road and rail and a greener business. This is a good budget for the whole country. It is a clear bet when the red-green government has lifted the municipal economy by nearly 41 billion kroner since we took over. Since the 4th quarter of 2005 to the 3rd quarter of 2009, the number added to the municipal sector has increased by over 62 000. Next year, we'll be spending $8 billion on local well-being. School and care for the elderly are given a lift. Among other things, there is room for 2,500 new care facilities in 2010. From 1 January next year, county councils will be strengthened by taking over large and important tasks from the state, including: responsibility for the other national roads. For this, an extra billion will be paid in free money in addition to the money that comes from the government when it transfers tasks and also an interest compensation scheme. The municipal sector manages a large proportion of its resources for the benefit of its inhabitants. In 2010, the sector’s total revenue is estimated at NOK 333 billion. 2008 was a demanding year for the municipal sector, but the financial structure in 2009 and 2010 with strong increases in the total and free revenues, facilitates a better balance in the economy and continues to expand welfare services in many municipalities. The new report to the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economy, which has just been published, shows that there is a growth in municipal and county services in 2009 as well. The selection expects the local economy to improve in 2009 and estimate the net operating performance of the local government sector to be about 21⁄2 pst. in 2009. It's a clear reinforcement from 2008. The selection also suggests that the growth of free revenues in 2010 will facilitate increased service provision in addition to that resulting from demographic developments. The government will strengthen local and regional growth in areas with low economic growth, a long distance from larger markets, a unilateral industrial structure and stagnation or a decline in the population. Difor has me, among others. the proposal to increase the ownership of municipal food funds, entrepreneurship and the development of attractive sites. It is important that municipalities get more and more muscles to develop communities. Municipalities must be good partners for business and private actors who want to establish themselves around the country. Active municipalities are important for value creation. Infrastructure is also an important basis for growth and development throughout the country. We need to do this, among other things. EUR 100 million. kr to build forward-looking broadband next year. In the field of trade, a historically high investment of DKK 27 billion was proposed in 2010 – a growth of 21 pst. The investment on the road will increase by NOK 2.6 billion and SEK 1.3 billion on the railway. This action will improve the image of people and businesses, improve road safety and bind the country together. With this, the government has increased the permits to road and rail purposes by $9 billion, almost 50 pst. since we took over in 2005. I'm busy that we have to care more about creating in the future, not just sharing. The government will conduct an active business policy. It is necessary at a time when more industries will experience tougher times, not least before the export industry. The 2010 budget is taking us a good step towards a greener and more environmentally friendly Norway. Enova is eligible for €1.8 billion for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement in 2010. Together with historically high innovations in Innovation Norway, this gives us the best intentions to create a new, green business for the future. We are above the rule of action in the use of oil money, various social security and welfare schemes will greatly increase, and we see that competitively exposed industry wears out. The action room will be smaller. Then it becomes more important than ever to think of smart political solutions without going along with our goals of exciting jobs and equivalent welfare where people live throughout the country. When we see the alternative budgets from the Right and the Advance Party, we see clearly how important it is that the country has a red-green government – a government that will stimulate local growth and ensure the well-being of everyone where they live, giving people real freedom of choice depending on where they want to live and realize their life project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3005	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3008	On their previous trips, the members of the government received strong criticism from those we traveled around and visited, which eventually resulted in a change in the system of resource-requiring users and a line that was close to the Progress Party's desire for the economy to be in relation to its expenses. Now we see that the government is going back and reverses this scheme for 2010. It goes so far as to give retroactive effect to this scheme for 2009. Does the Council not see that for municipalities there will be a difficult exercise as the budget for 2009 has been created, and that these will have to convert difficult solutions to deal with what will then be added? Does the Council not also see that this will have a significant impact on the 2010 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3014	The government has put in place a system that is more segregated in relation to resource-requiring users than the one that was under the Bondevik II government, supported by the Progress Party, where one did not make such changes even if there was no less complaint to the scheme during that government period. There has been a strong increase in the use of the scheme. It's been an increase of over $1 billion from one year to the next. There's something in the background of a certain reduction, from 85 pst. to 80 pst. Nevertheless, this is now a far better arrangement than the one under the Bondevik II regime. It is also important for us in the future that it should be a good arrangement for the municipalities. The tax intake in 2009 is three times the additional costs for the municipal sector. This way, it'll be a good discovery to find these money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3021	«Many of the environmental challenges in the transport sector are of a long-term nature and long-term impact decisions need to go beyond what is reflected in current environmental regulations.» The government will contribute to ‘faster vehicle phase-in’, i.e. low-emission vehicles, ‘through the charging system, research, support schemes and organisation’. These are two quotes from a plan that the Navarsete State Council knows well, namely the national transport plan. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs took over 20,000 kilometres of national road when she changed the department. Therefore, it is clear that biodiesel and low-emissions are something to which the Council of State has shown great commitment. Earlier today, the representative Lundtigen made it clear that the centre party’s pool is against the biodiesel tax, but will vote in favour of avoiding a right-wing government. Then the Council of State began by saying that she is “accommodated” with the budget, as well as the central party leader and the municipal and regional ministers. Is party leader Navarsete against, and what about the municipal and regional minister regarding the biodiesel tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3037	Sitting in a government with another party is exciting and challenging. We sometimes have strong points of view, and we have good and fresh debates. One must both give and take. We've shown for four years that we can find solutions. I do not hide that there may be some demanding discussions – and have been – about biofuels in the last few months. Nor is it a secret that the centre party has argued against introducing a tax on biofuels. At the same time, I would say that the most important thing for the Center Party is our goal and not our means of action. Now we introduce other active substance, i.e. incorporation, which is to increase first to 3.5 pst. And then to 5 pst. There are other instruments, but the objective is the same: better transport sector with less climate change emissions and direct production of second-generation biofuels in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3044	Around the municipality of Norway, we now experience that many of our capable local politicians, among others. Because of the tight economy, it has to go to the drastic step of going down schools. We know that over a hundred schools are in danger of being laid down only this year. This concern has obviously also been addressed to the government offices, because on the TV 2 news yesterday our competent municipal minister spoke out on this matter. Of course, she would not interfere with local policy decisions, but nevertheless chose to advise local politicians to find sectors other than school leaving. And I wonder, what other areas, sectors, are it possible to cut in when you've come so far that you're actually considering going to school? And: doesn't the Council have any tools that can be used so that something as important as maintaining the secondary school, which is an important matter for the Central Party as well, can still be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3049	First: Thank you for a good review, it always appreciates it. So to the question, what other sectors can you cut into? I refer to two areas where it is important that the Municipality of Norway should thank you. It only owes the effort to reduce sick leave. If you want to reduce it by 1 pst, it means $1.5 billion for municipalities that can be used in schools, health and care and other important welfare tasks. Enova has mapped, or at least compiled, information that shows that by investing in energy efficiency improvement, one can also save DKK 1 billion. Then it's going to be possible to think of other solutions than to put down spherical sphericals. Then it's possible to think together and see how you can housekeepers so that you can keep the service supply close to people and try to find savings in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3056	Kindergartens are an important part of municipal welfare services. Earlier today, representatives from the Workers' Party and SV have turned to large rhetorical heights in their review of the Left's proposal to adjust kindergarten prices, as the Government itself did in 2007. The left considers it more important to allow municipalities to make greater price adjustments for those with the lowest income, to ensure the recruitment of preschool teachers, to improve the quality of kindergartens and to increase equal treatment for public and private kindergartens than to provide the richest with an additional price adjustment of DKK 700 per year. Is the Minister of Local Affairs as shocked as his friends in the Labour Party and SV over the priorities of the Left in the kindergarten policy? Or does the Minister of State see that this, which is largely in line with the Central Party's election program on page 66, is the right priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3063	According to some replications today, parts of the opposition have spent a lot of time reading the Center Party's program and then compiling it with what had to be lacking in the Government's budget. That's nice, because the Center Party has a very good program, and there's a lot of work that we're going to do. Not everything has come into the 2010 budget, and not everything has come into the platform under government control, because it's Soria Moria that's our basis. The budget we have presented, including for the nursery sector, is in line with the Soria Moria platform. It's a platform on which the Center Party stands firm and well, both when it comes to kindergartens and the rest of the welfare sector, which we are so lucky to be allowed to be with and manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3068	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3071	The deciduous majority of our national wealth is what people in this country are capable of creating, in the private and public sectors, in manufacturing companies and in the service sector, in schools and in research institutions, in health services and in hospitals, in Municipal Norway and in state activities. This part is dry 80 pst. of our national wealth, so it's worth more than the Pension Fund. Or as senior researcher Erling Røed Larsen wrote in the evening post the other day: Norway's hope is not at the bottom of the North Sea, but is in the minds of our teenagers. Our goal must be to give all people in the country the opportunity to use and develop their abilities as best they can. The commitment to knowledge and education for all is a sovereign investment: at primary, secondary, tertiary and research, as well as in continuing education. That is why this budget places great emphasis on education and research. We'll bet more on a whole school day, several lessons and eight hours of free homework. Further efforts are being made to prevent high school drop-outs, and we are increasing the funding for research by DKK 1.7 billion, at the top of large budgets in the knowledge sector, as we have had for many years. These initiatives show that the red-green government continues to strengthen Norway's main competitive advantage, namely that we are capable and good at much of what we do. We have a high cost level in this country, which would normally weaken us in a global competitive situation, especially in the serious economic situation that the world has been in in the last year. But the opposite has been the case. Norway is one of the very few countries that have experienced the financial crisis without increasing unemployment. In our neighbouring countries, there is a high level of unemployment, which unfortunately can easily be long-term. Through the previous government budget, last winter's package of measures, revised budget and this budget, the Government has shown that countercyclical policies have worked. In addition, past efforts at education and well-being over many years have improved our ability as a society to cope with recessions. Safe welfare systems and a high level of education make people more resilient, even at times of alarm. But unemployment has increased, and it is important not to believe that there is no danger that it may continue to increase. In many countries, the crisis is still high, both due to high unemployment and high budget deficits, and there are countries that are important trading partners for us. Failure to meet demand from these markets will spread to the Norwegian export industry. But the financial crisis has shown us that a strong economy gives us room for action, and this government has shown the ability to use this space of action. Nevertheless, there is reason to remember that it is not so that only all budget lines are increased that the problems of the nation are solved. The hearings in Stortinget this fall have also this year been about everyone wanting more money, despite the fact that we are using record oil money. However, a country with financial assets and additional revenues from oil and gas must also have the ability to prioritise. We don't have enough free labour to solve all the problems at once. That's when we work over skills. One of the most important tasks facing us as responsible politicians both in the opposition and in the position is therefore to increase the space for action, as it is called in the economic language. So how do we do that? We need to use the enormous resources we allocate over the state budget, as much as possible and as efficiently as possible – and even better than today. Not least, we all need to be included, including those excluded from the labour market, so that they too can contribute. In this way, the debate that has now begun on the sick pay system and disability benefits is very important in terms of being able to use resources even more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3093	Traffic Safety Officer of the State Road Administration, Finn Harald Amundsen, stated at a press conference on 23 November 2009 that motorways are reducing the number of fatal accidents by 80-90 pst. He's absolutely right. Motorway development has made former highways in Eastfold and Westfold the safest roads in Norway, but unfortunately the government is fighting against new motorway expansions. 33 pst. of those who died in traffic in 2008 — one in three — died in a meeting accident. Prevention of meeting accidents is not difficult. Midwives are both efficient and cheap and could have saved many lives. Nevertheless, the government will only build 9 km in the middle of 2010. This is too bad. Many lives could have been saved every year if Norway had a world-class road network. 38 pst. killed in 2008 by road users in road accidents. This can be prevented through auto protection and safety zones. There is no point in building too narrow roads in Norway without the necessary safety zones on the side of the road. In 19 p.m. deaths in 2008 were caused by vehicle faults. The Minister of Transport knows that new cars are safer than old cars, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg knows that new cars are safer than old cars, and even depositor Hallgeir Langeland, who does not want people to drive cars, knows that new cars are safer than old cars. Political Norway as a whole should therefore join forces in the fight to reduce taxes and taxes on new cars, so that families with children can afford the security they need. Many deaths could also have been prevented if people in this country had been able to afford new and safe cars. The progress party will build continuous motorways from Oslo to Kristiansand and on to Stavanger. The entire Norwegian part of E18 shall be the four-field motorway, including sections in Eastfold where the Government is building a new two-field road. The progress party will build E6 from Oslo to Trondheim and on to Steinkjer as a motorway. The progress will have a big bet on the highway around Oslo. In my own county, Telemark, tourists think they've made a mistake when they've driven a piece of E18 through the county. It is not possible for them to understand that one of the country's most important roads in one of the richest countries in the world is several places like a deadly crooked path, with narrow turns, opposite traffic and the ability to drive straight into the mountain wall. Transport solutions for the largest cities in the country – Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim – are essential for the entire country’s transport network and thus also for the value creation of urban areas. Urban populations are increasing — and are expected to increase sharply in the years to come. We can't do as the Center Party and ignore the fact that an increasing proportion of the country's population lives in the largest cities. We got through a budgetary question that you're counting on a traffic growth of 60 pst. in Oslo by 2030, while in the Stavanger area a traffic growth of 54 pst is expected. by 2030. This must have implications for the allocation of roads and other infrastructure in the major cities. The Progress Party therefore proposes a city package of DKK 100 billion for the four major urban areas. The government is wrong when it says that massive investment will not be enough to meet the strong growth of transport in the largest cities. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I have a great deal of understanding that it is difficult for the Minister of Transport to be here, as the Government is already well behind its own proposal for a national transport plan shortly after the finalisation of the national transport plan. For road, this is already almost NOK 1.5 billion and for rail 850 million. kr. Although it is difficult for the Council of State to defend the government's policy, it would be wrong for us not to point out obvious errors and shortcomings in the government's policy, when this leads to the death of many people unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3115	For many years we have heard that we did not spend enough oil money. Especially from the far right, until recently we got a hard criticism that we allegedly were too busy having money on the book. And I'm going to admit that the populists – especially the most tabloid media – have sometimes had a lighter pedagogical task than the ones we've held back, while actually using every crown of oil that was possible, given what economics and thus jobs, our common pension obligations and future generations could bear. Neither then nor now is there any reason to accuse us of not spending enough oil money. Nor is there any reason to accuse ourselves that we are currently spending too much oil money, sail if we are all aware that we cannot continue to spend as much in the years ahead. And those who wanted to pay off with tens of billions of dollars more when the Norwegian economy was under very strong pressure, and who are now trying to appear as easy-to-transparent, snooty brake blocks when extra stimulus to secure Norwegian business in a tough time is really needed, are left with relatively little credibility. I want to say it this way: it's good they're where they are, the Progress Party, especially, in opposition, because if we hadn't been in Norway, we wouldn't be where we are now. We have dealt well with – and tackle – the crisis, but it is not off. In particular, the export industry is highly vulnerable and receives and will receive massive attention from us in the future. In turn, we have labored with powerful instruments wisely phased in and dimensionally. If anyone thinks I'm relatively satisfied with the government's efforts, it's a proper observation. Because it's not that it's automatic that it had to go very well in Norway. It is really about political governance and, in particular, about the will for political governance and priority. Because we've been holding back in good times, as many have said, we have more room for action now. The results of the crisis vary in different parts of the country and between industries. Nevertheless, in general, we must say that the financial crisis in Norway is not exactly what many other countries experience as a financial crisis. We also need the ability to tackle the challenges that await. We're going to set up people and communities that, in this situation, need a little bit extra from the community. We are going to renew and develop public welfare systems in a fair manner. We're going to make everyday life easier for people. The public service and service equipment must be as user-friendly as possible. Automatic free card, as the government proposes to introduce in 2010, is a good example that we will make things easier for people. People shall no longer need to collect receipts for paid accumulators and seagoing goods subject to exemptions once the self-employment has been achieved. That's how it's going to end with people losing money. We also make it easier for young people to receive healthcare by increasing the age limit for free healthcare from 12 to 16 years. And the interaction reform, which the Health and Care Committee is about to start working on, is most about making it easier for people to have access to proper health care and easier to take care of their own health. The smartest solutions are rarely the most complicated. We need to ensure that the reform becomes the most effective reform with minimum bureaucracy and maximum focus on good prevention and the provision of comprehensive services to the individual. The 2010 state budget strengthens the allocations for patient care in hospitals. Health plan 2015 will be followed up. Since 2008, including 2010, commitments will have been made for the construction of 6 000 lucky day manned care facilities. The use of drugs in the field of mental health is also increasing. We also need to put a lot of effort into reducing sick leave in the healthcare sector, of course in close cooperation with employees and their organisations. We are going to adopt an expansive budget today – or perhaps tomorrow – because it is necessary to secure jobs and important welfare offers. I have the impression that very many people understand that the cost growth has to be limited in the years to come. At least then we need political governance because we have to make tough priorities, not least to ensure that the new times are also good times for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3141	It is always interesting to listen to politicians like the representative Hagebakken, who have obviously helped to do everything right at all times. Thank you for giving me the opening that there might be something left of the crisis. It is in fact – in the competitive industry, in the export industry. We have heard former Minister of Finance Halvorsen say here today that the crisis has been resolved thoroughly. And that's quite right, just that she underestimates the fact that it was the whole Biggest agreed on. The crisis was resolved in the financial industry, but it remains in the export industry and in the competitive industry. It's just reading NHO's business barometer that came a few days ago. It's just looking at the SSB's investment index that fell by 23 pst in the third quarter. Oil investments are falling slightly. We've only halved works so far. When you visit the workshop industry, as I did this week at Sunnmøre, you learn that there are problems with borrowing money. Politicians cannot oblige banks to lend money, but we can ensure that businesses are better able to have equity and that they themselves are able to borrow money. Of course, the fact that the government has still imposed new taxes on ownership over four years has corroded that equity. Therefore, it is obvious that it is wrong when this budget does not extend part of the temporary arrangements to assist in this, for example. the temporary depreciation rates which came in February and which were cancelled in October. What kind of predictability is there for Norwegian business? Some of the same is true of the loan framework for Innovation Norway, the Low-Risk Loan Facility and the Innovation Loan Facility, which were raised in February during the crisis, while they were cancelled and reduced as early as October. The right will continue both of these arrangements. The cuts in research are one of the same things. The Research Council's approach to business-related research has cut by 50 million. kr. There are a lot of projects in line, they're ready to get into business, but they have to be canceled. And above all, the treasure of ownership throughout this period. I think it must be heard a little hollow for the red-green politicians of these days, when you look at the situation out in business, to say that these are tax reliefs to the rich. No, it's not at all, it's about taking care of the jobs you have through ownership. Some people actually have to own Norwegian companies in order for someone to have a job there, so that they can do the value creation that the current Minister of Finance spoke well about this morning, what we are going to create for the future generations. The Prime Minister does not like, I understand, a dynamic tax policy. On the other hand, I understood that he is a member of a dynamic business policy, but the two things are closely linked. Right goes into 10 billion dollars in what I would call a dynamic business policy. It is also made up of dynamic fiscal policies, but we have been careful to put too much money into the budget. And to those who criticize the Right Invaders, I want to say the following, because there have been a number of speakers and a number of lines today that have criticized the Right Invasion: I think that when this government is going to come back to the Rule of Action, you have to look at the things that Right has already begun to look at. We need to look at structural changes in Norwegian society. You have to look at cuts. It's not just useful to put on more. We've already started to do that. Then I think you'll see that the way we've shown is a good way to go if you combine it with good conditions for business, so that value creation stays up. Then it may be possible, via increased tax revenue as well, to come back to the path that our current Minister of Finance has promised Storting that he will try. We're going to help and show you the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3154	I'm not quite sure if I and the representative Fleet have read the same document, but one thing he has right in, and that's that we're still in a challenging and difficult time, with cancellations and layoffs in the workplace. The government assumes and assumes responsibility by setting up several good actions in 2009 to safeguard Norwegian jobs. The 2010 budget has the same profile. The government and the red-green parties are responsible for a responsible economic policy. It's very important, especially for business. By using oil money to adapt the economic situation, the Government establishes a countercyclical policy that will help increase activity in several sectors, such as the United Kingdom. within the construction sector. Work for all is one of the main objectives of this government, and the government has delivered giant packages to the banking and credit markets during 2009. I can refer to the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit and Innovation Norway as two very important and central institutions. These are measures that are highly favourably received by business and will undoubtedly safeguard businesses, maintain a high level of activity and contribute to the increase in investment. It is important that the Government in this way encourages access to capital for both export and small and medium-sized enterprises for a difficult time. The government has a clear goal of creating and sharing, but I want to make it clear that the responsibility for developing a good business is essentially the responsibility of business itself. The role of the authorities is, of course, to provide industry with good general and prudent framework conditions that enable them to compete on a level playing field. We need a working life that is capable of both conversion and renewal in order to sustain its competitiveness. This was focused on in spring when Stortinget dealt with the so-called innovation message. A good industrial value creation policy will, in the next round, lay the foundation for good welfare for all and, not least, be at the heart of the debate on poverty, where access to work is the very foundation for people to enjoy well. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for the country. Although the government will spend a record $148.5 billion on oil revenue next year, there is still a responsible policy to keep interest rates down, counteract high unemployment and maintain high employment. There is also reason to note the great investment in the field of transport, both this year, next year and for years to come. Four years ago, we had a government with an empty toolbox and a policy for a market liberal business. Today, we have a government that has filled up the toolbox with a lot of good tools and a solid blending economy that gives us the ability to manage the market when needed. So I'm going to spend the rest of my measured time talking about the justice sector. The government is strengthening the justice sector with a total of DKK 1.6 billion. It allows us to pursue an active and holistic justice policy. This is another step towards a safer and better well-being society. More police force is a question many in this room have been occupied by. With this budget, we look at the efforts of the police and prosecution authorities. A total of DKK 1.3 billion will increase this budget area next year. The government has thus increased this budget area by nearly DKK 3 billion in nominal terms for the period 2006-2010. One of the biggest challenges of this government inherited from the Bondevik government was the lack of people in the police and county seats. Today, a majority in this Chamber decided to increase the admission of 720 students at the Police College in 2010. This is the highest recording of students who have been at the Police College. Through this Decision, the Government has doubled its admission since 2006. In today's financial situation, criminal services will have a significant boost. Long queues for atonement have been a major challenge for many years. There is reason to claim that the reconciliation queue is now largely liquidated. In the last few years, about 400 new prisons have been established, and the prison will soon be in place. In addition, electronic controls corresponding to about 130 places have been introduced. In the fall, however, we have been made aware that the use of care equipment has increased significantly during October and November. This increase is related to the police doing a brilliant job and revealing foreign criminal gangs. Therefore, the Government Party will propose to its members in the Judicial Committee to redispatch 20 million. kr within the agreed budgetary framework to temporarily extend the capacity of existing prisons and other measures to release prison capacity to custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3175	A useful result of the debate on the throne is that there was an almost complete agreement in the Storting that free trade is essential for development, production and standard of living. These are once again prerequisites for human rights, democracy and peace. But if visions are to become reality, it must be acted upon. We here in Norway are definitely dependent on free trade. We have to sell something in order to import everything we don't produce ourselves. Norwegian business continues to look for duty-free market access, not least for fish. This may sound obvious, but there is reason to ask for action from the Government. Everyone's talking, but in reality it's happening very little. Least-developed countries have received duty-free access for some goods, but it is almost 20 years since it happened. Making demands to our trading partners that in order to be part of world trade, they must be lukewarm, is not a wise strategy. In the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, we therefore propose customs reductions – this in order to achieve free trade in practice. Let's try to see this from the poor countries. What they need are export markets. For them, Norway is a buy-in export market that can give them growth and prosperity by allowing products to be sold to us here in Norway. Let them go! That's an advantage for us too! African leaders state that for them, trade is more important than assistance. Let's take them seriously. The Progress Party is responsible for a total conversion of Norwegian aid policy. Ever since India aid in the 1950s, Norwegian taxpayers have paid hundreds of billions of dollars for aid projects. But the cost is only part of this picture. I'm left with the impression that the government is asking the critical questions too little. Instead, both the nobility, Soria Moria II, and now the state budget of the country, appeal to Norway to use more than 1 pst. of its gross national income for assistance purposes. The message is that it is about spending as much money as possible. Much of this money goes to some of the world's most corrupt countries. The Progress Party asks the question that the Government is asking, does it help to provide assistance to notoriously corrupt regimes? More and more people answer this question with: No, rather on the contrary, it can make things worse. U-help, unfortunately, too often helps dictators to hold back power. The Progress Party is against such a policy. We in the Progress Party point another way. We'll start doing a job. The government should do as we in the Progress Party propose, namely to make demands on the recipient countries. Forget the goal of spending as much money as possible. Stop the flow of money to those countries that do not follow up on democracy development and anti-corruption, and facilitate well-being and prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3194	I have often wondered how we as a society – both the media, us individuals and politicians – talk about the fact that we get more older. It is often referred to as the wave of old age. Language use sometimes seems to be a major threat to the future welfare community, but the truth is the opposite. We have succeeded in building a country with good living conditions and increasing life expectancy. The time has come to turn the perspective around and think offensively about the many healthy elderly in our society. Older people are of great value to society and also to us as individuals, and they contribute both with experience and knowledge. But the increase in life expectancy also presents us with challenges. We need to implement the care plan 2015. This means that we need to recruit and hire more people – approx. 12,000 new annual works – in the care service. This means that we need to expand at least 12,000 sick homes and happy day care facilities – we said by 2015. The government will also ensure full health care coverage by 2015 by providing it to all those who need hospitalisation or nursing homes. We need to implement the Competence Lift and strengthen the supply of older people in a number of areas. It makes the impression that drug abuse can ruin the lives of young people and their families. Today, too many gaps cause those who are struggling with drug abuse to fall out of the system. Prevention, emergency services and aftercare will together form important elements of a comprehensive and offensive drug policy. In addition to the Action Plan for the drugs field, the Action Reform will be important in order to improve coordination between the different treatment services and the different services available for this group. This reform is now under discussion in Stortinget, and I am convinced that we must implement the main idea of the communication – that is. more prevention and strengthening of municipal health provision. When I travel around the country, I notice that there are great expectations in the municipalities. The most prominent item in the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget is the hospitals. The draft budget now facilitates a growth in patient treatment of about 1.3 pst. at national level. That's good, but I'm serious about the increased waiting times. I have started a major effort to find effective measures. For 2010, I want to strengthen the requirement for regional health companies to reduce the waiting times for diagnosis and treatment. We need to have control of the hospital budget in order to maintain and further develop health and care services. That's why I'm glad that now it seems that we're close to succeeding in bringing health businesses into a financial balance. The government will continue to work on a better division of work between hospitals. Free capacity in public hospitals shall be used. Agreements between health undertakings and private commercial hospitals shall not undermine the patient base of the small hospitals. We want to improve and renew public health so that we can solve the challenges we face in health care in the future. But it is not that healthcare alone can solve all health problems. The health of the population and the social health differences are mainly influenced by conditions outside health care, ranging from economics and growing conditions to the working and living environment and how we live. Governments will contribute to good health and less health inequalities in the population. This is achieved by pursuing a comprehensive social cohesion policy in parallel with measures that allow individuals to take better care of their own health. The government will have a health and care service at the forefront of medical and technological matters. The goal is proper treatment at the right place and at the right time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3220	Last week I sent a letter to the Council of State stating that Ahus has announced longer waiting times next year because of a deficit in the current year. Last night, Ahus proposed to lay down the psychiatry department with 18 beds from 1 January. At the same time, several municipalities report cut-offs in their psychiatric services. I'm not going to ask the Council of State if she's worried about this, because I really hope she is, but I'd like to ask the Council of State what she's actually thinking about doing to avoid what we were actually able to build up under the Psychic Health Plan, now not being demolished again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3227	I can assure the representative that the escalation plan and the offer to the psychiatrist are very important to me. It is not that we want to build up an offer that we have just begun to build up. However, it is in this area that you need to see the different offers in the context, also see the hospitals in the context, and consider where it is right to make the best offer also with regard to the issue that was raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3232	When the state budget was presented, the organisations of drug addicts said that the focus on the treatment of drug users was a joke. That was an increase of 42 million. kr in an area where more than 4000 people are in line for treatment. Then the Right Government asked how many extras there were that would be treated for these 42 million. kr, replied that the money here did not matter for these patients had the right to treatment ‘without financial considerations affecting the basis or the outcome’. In view of that, I would like to ask the Council to explain how it might be that more than 4,000 people are in line, that the waiting time has increased by eight days, and that 23 pst. of those who have received individual treatment for multidisciplinary rehabilitation in the drug field, are subject to time-limits, if it is true that economic considerations should not be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3239	It is worrying when waiting lists and waiting times increase. Although we have significantly increased resources in the economy, it turns out that in some areas the waiting list is going in the wrong direction – it is increasing instead of being shorter, as we all want. But I promise that I have gone into this issue – I also said that in my post – because this with waiting times is important. It's important for those who are waiting, and it's very important for those we can get out of line, so that they can resume their work or work in society, and it's very important for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3244	The situation in the hospital sector is currently very demanding. Several have indicated that both queues, waiting lists and waiting times are increasing. During these days we hear about hospitals after hospitals that reduce their offers, bed beds are closed and hospitals are proposed to be closed. The increase in the budget is largely offset by demographic developments. In addition, I have a very long list here on several pages of non-profit institutions in the field of drugs, psychiatry and care for the elderly that have been discontinued in the last few years, and many are entering the years right in these days. My question to the Council of State is related to the budget and the framework of the hospital budget: Is the budget for 2010 as tight as it feels now, and will we have a further increase in waiting times and queues in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3254	The increase in the hospital budget to next year will be 1.3 p.m. The previous years have been slightly higher. This is in real dollars, and there's growth in the budget. If we also look at the overviews, we see that more are being treated, but, as I said, in some areas the waiting lists have gone further, and the waiting times have gone up somewhat. This has been addressed, as it is especially in outpatient treatment and diagnosis that waiting times are longer. It is also strange that the situation should be worse than it was before. In fact, over the course of these four years, we have increased the effort in the hospital sector by 8.3 billion kroner in real terms — in addition to large pension costs that have been avoided. Non-profit institutions operating... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3263	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3266	On Monday, the Oslo bench had a relatively large meeting with Health South-East. At that meeting, it became clear that Health East has plans that include, among other things, closure of further operations in Aker Hospital. There's cross-political agreement on the Oslo bench that it's unfortunate for all the people affected by this, and that's about 80,000 people living in the Groruddalen. Firstly, will the Council of State intervene and ensure further operations on Aker? And for the rest: does there possibly be a closure of Aker Hospital with what is in Soria Moria II?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3273	There is a great deal of work going on in the Oslo region to investigate just local hospital functions for Oslo. In the case of the city of Grorud, it is a 2002 decision that says that they have their local hospital at Aarhus – i.e. they belong to Aarhus’s recording area. What was adopted in November 2008 was that one of the other districts of Oslo was also going to Aarhus. There are large sums invested to have a good local hospital offer for the people of Oslo. How to organise this, we have to look at the plan that's coming. I have only received a very general briefing on this, and it is not controlled either. It shall be administered at a later date. So what's finally going to happen is something you have to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3283	In the Right's Alternative State Budget, we have focused on stimulating new growth and, in particular, on safe businesses. In addition, the Right will provide a boost for education and research, and, in particular, will take a boost in transport. We are increasing the budget for road investment by nearly 20 pst. and thus meets, unlike the Government, the adopted NTP framework, from which the government parties are at full speed away. The right will give priority to modern and safe use, and provide additional incentives to promote more public transport – especially environmentally friendly public transport. Tonight, after all, the three government parties will see to it that the Stortinget adopts the contested tax increase on biodiesel. From the Right, we believe that the Government is therefore guilty of another breach of the climate agreement that has been concluded between the parties on the Stortinget, except for the Progress Party. Let's think about what breaks we're talking about. The government has not presented sufficient measures to achieve the objectives of increased CO2 reductions. The government did not submit a proposal for climate action in the petroleum sector in 2008. The government has rejected the renewable electricity scheme, which was due to be submitted pending the green certificate market. Nor has it provided an action plan for the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources to heating, nor has it introduced a ban on the installation of oil boilers in new buildings. The Government has not provided a system of energy checks in residential buildings by 2009, and the Government has not made any concrete demands on energy use and energy supplies in public construction projects in addition to the minimum requirements laid down in the Technical Regulation. Finally, the Government has not introduced free parking for hydrogen cars in public places. I think we have our words left. Despite the little eco-friendly tax decision, the Prime Minister will trump through and make the government parties adopt today, I and Right will challenge the Government on another environmental issue that really mons, and that we are working on. How so? Indeed, the right will provide for increased demand for climate-neutral fuels, such as: biodiesel, by requiring all new buses, taxis, scheduled boats, yes also diesel trains to run on zero-emission or climate-neutral fuels by the end of 2011. The same should also apply to all new municipal, county and state vehicles by the end of 2013. Yeah, why? Yes, among others. to help Norway meet the climate requirements expected of us and to keep the climate agreement, and to save jobs and competences of Uniol and others who plan to develop biofuels. Biodiesel, with the Government’s proposal, will not be competitive, and the demand for this climate-neutral fuel will be too low both for the environment and for Norwegian jobs. However, the right-hand proposals will lead to requirements for climate-neutral new collective means of transport by the end of 2011 and will ensure that demand for the fuel is increased and ensure that the public becomes a driving force in reducing the pollution of the Norwegian fleet. The right is concerned about the environment, and in this way, by investing in emission-free public transport, we save the environment from large emissions, while at the same time developing a technology that all cars can use later. So we are stimulating technology development in a large and important area of emissions such as the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3307	The global financial crisis is the most serious setback in the international economy since the Great Depression broke out in 1929. Trust in economic growth suddenly disappeared. The flow of capital slowed down, demand fell, and unemployment began to rise. Norway has had good conditions to cope with the crisis. We have a good economy, and we have a big public sector that makes the fluctuations in the economy less than they would otherwise have been. We have good regulation of the financial markets, and it provides confidence that the Government will be able to take a majority in the Storting and to guide economic policy safely and predictably. But good assumptions are not enough alone. Good political governance is crucial. The banking exchange mechanism, the labour package and a lower interest rate policy have been effective measures to mitigate the effects of the financial crisis and to reduce employment. The fight against unemployment comes first on the political agenda of the Workers' Party. The government's objective is to get Norway out of the crisis with Europe's lowest unemployment. In the Workers' Party, the word «responsibility» may be an honorary term. The majority of the population have saved money in good times, so that we could spend it in bad times. Recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) pointed out, among other things: The expansion of fiscal and monetary policies has helped to reduce unemployment in Norway than in other countries. In the future, economic policy must be normalized. The use of money needs to return to normal levels – firstly because budgetary policy needs to facilitate the delivery of a sustainable economy by ever-new generations. In 2050, there are more than twice as many older people over 80 years of age as they are today, and a smaller proportion of the population is to finance welfare services. Solidarity is not only about fair advantage in the present, but also across time. In addition, we need to develop a policy that is adapted to the recession, which is serious for competitive industries. That's the second reason money has to go back to normal. The Minister of Finance has shared good thoughts about a new solidarity option. In the 2010 budget, priority will be given to the main Community solutions. I am delighted to vote in favour of measures for full hospital coverage, several study places and climate and development measures tonight. The next month is the Copenhagen climate summit. There will be an important milestone in the implementation of an international climate agreement. Norway can go to Copenhagen to make sure that we give priority to measures against deforestation in developing countries and new appropriations for CO2 management in Mongstad. Nevertheless, the general climate debate today is overshadowed by the specific debate on biodiesel. I would like to remind the Christian People's Party – which commendably shares our commitment to climate and development issues – on what Dagfinn Højbrätten wrote as late as last May. In the wake of the food crisis, Højbråten wrote: ‘New research also shows that biofuels based on maize and soya are about twice as climate-friendly as petrol. Norway should go ahead and impose the requirement for blending biofuels into ice fuel.’» It is a little hollow to argue strongly for tax exemptions when there is, at the same time, a resistance to increased orders to trade. I think this shows that the Christian People's Party has unfortunately been more concerned with the political game than with the realities of the matter. The point is that because of the existence of both good and bad biofuels, it is important to find non-performing instruments that promote good rather than a general tax exemption for all. When the Government will now introduce sustainability criteria, it is a competitive advantage for the good biofuels. Norway is one of the world’s least diverse countries. Fair distribution is important in itself, but good welfare arrangements for sick, disabled and unemployed can also help to maintain purchasing power in times of recession and mitigate economic fluctuations. The budget continues to make the taxes on wealth fairer. In the lifetime of this government, the discount has increased from NOK 150000 to NOK 700000 – twice for married people. The system of valuation of dwellings now becomes much fairer and less random than before. The Workers' Party believes in good welfare arrangements through institutions such as population welfare, hospitals and municipalities, and in fair distribution through tax arrangements with a good distribution profile. When Franklin D. Roosevelt made a choice in the period of depression, he used these words as early as 1932: ‘The first theory is that if we make the rich richer, they will somehow let some of their wealth grow older down to the rest of us. The second theory is the theory that if we make the average of humanity comfortable and safe, their wealth will rise to the degrees." I believe in the second theory.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3344	It was interesting to be present and hear the Prime Minister's speech today, especially in relation to what views and visions he had for the year we go into. It couldn't be traced that there were many new views and visions – it was old rhetoric that came up on assembly lines: it was work for everyone, and it was a budget of work, well-being and sustainability. But where does well-being go? I want to quote from the Soria Moria statement – the new government platform. It says that the Government will «work to limit the number of new workers and to bring more workers back to work». So let's look at what happened the last four years the government has ruled. We have had an increase of over 26 000 disabled people since the end of 2005 and until today. We've had an increase of 30,000 new people every year this government has ruled, so you can't say that you've managed to achieve the goal of limiting the number of new people. Rather on the contrary, we've actually seen a slight increase. Nor has it been possible to get more workers back to work. That's why I become a little ‘matt’ – if I can use such a term – by the rhetoric you hear in this Chamber, when the Progress Party actually takes the political objective seriously. We think it's a good goal to limit the number of new failures. We think it is a good ambition that we should get more work done back. And then when we start to take action to achieve that goal, we get criticized by a government that has achieved exactly the same objective in its own government statement without doing a single thing to achieve its own goal. That is why I am also proud that the Progress Party has allocated 130 million. kr more to Nav to strengthen efforts for, among others. to return the disabled to work. In particular, it is interesting to note that by the end of 2008, there were 92 000 people with disabilities who were out of work and who wanted to return to work. What does the government do to reach these? No things of the world! And when we look at the numbers, we see that there's still the same number of people out of work. Then you use the rhetoric: we've been through a financial crisis, and it's been all things in that context that have made us unable to succeed. Why is this government not investing in several action areas, as the Progress Party has done? We want to increase the number of places of action, especially for those with disabilities, by 5,200 next year. There are measures that could have actually helped to get more people back to work, and one would also have achieved the goal that the Government has been pursuing. Then I also want to look at the qualification program, which has also been discussed here, and which has been the government's big baby, to use that term, to limit poverty. Let me then quote the then state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who spoke to the Address Paper in April 2008, when he launched the program: ‘The qualification programme is very, very important to me. It is the most important instrument we have in the fight against poverty." Furthermore, he said that ‘abstaining the phenomenon that people live by social assistance’ was a priority task, and that in the autumn of 2009, the government was to measure what it had done. Yes, what has the government done? What is the verdict? When we read the National Audit Office's report, we see that six of the eight offices that have been surveyed have little or no evidence of the follow-up of the participants. None of the agencies can demonstrate that the participants’ chosen actions or individually adapted actions have worked. Six out of eight offices cannot prove that participants are offered an individual plan. As the Progress Party has said, the necessary means must be in place to make this work. Government policy has once again failed in an important area. It is also recorded when we read the old Soria Moria statement. For what was the Government's ambition there? Well, you had to remove poverty with a pen stroke. When we read the new Soria Moria statement, we record – there is only one line – that we need to increase efforts to combat poverty. It has to be a solid stomach patch, especially for the batch SV. In the end, a few years ago, then State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was very concerned about getting the social welfare recipients up on the morning, an action that I support. Then it doesn't help that the only tool he gave them was a alarm clock. There is more to it – and the Progress Party has it in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3363	Deepest, there are two reasons why I'm sitting on the Stortinget and I'm politically active. One is that I want to work for cohesion and more justice. The second is to stop the dangerous climate change. Now that I'm the head of the municipal committee, it's a pleasure to be allowed to work with all the municipalities in this country. They have a great job to do in these two areas. We work with the municipalities on this state budget. We are working to do the climate work, to solve the climate problems with public transport subsidy schemes, to bet on the cities of the future with environmental clean-up, energy efficiency and refurbishment, to create local environmental and climate action plans around all municipalities, and – now I look at the Minister of Transport – to make the effort on the railways that is now in the state budget. The municipalities have a very important job. They can choose environmental cars when they choose cars for home help and people who work in the renovation establishment. They may choose electric ferries and biofuels buses when they call for tenders. They can save energy and replace oil burners with district heating and environmentally friendly solutions. And where the SV rapporteur at Tynset, Bersvend Salbu, is at the forefront of energy saving and direct light investment, the City Council of the Progress Party in Oslo, Jøran Kallmyr, will be investing billions in prioritizing highways to Asker and Bærum over the development of T-Bahn and trams, several take-offs on the T-Bahn, bus fields and new bus offers for the Oslo people most. It's extremely important that we, sitting in a red-green government, make sure to give good room to the municipalities, make sure to back up under the red-green people out there doing a great job. Others do, too, but it's the red-green ones that can make the right choices for the environment and the climate. Another good reason to make sure to back up under the red-green around in Municipality-Norway is that we are taking action to smooth out differences and combat poverty. Two important things that need to be put in place to do that are to make sure that pay is good and fair. That job our government has now set out to do to raise women's wages, among other things. in many of the professions in the public sector. It is very important to create more cohesion and more justice. We make sure to have a good welfare offer, which is free, cheap and accessible to most people. There's another big and important reason why we're one of those countries in the world where people have the best and most equal opportunities. So in our government period, there have been tens of thousands of new employees in the municipalities. There are going to be more in next year's state budget, which is here today: more people in care and care, more people in school, and not least more people in kindergarten. We've reached our goal of full child care coverage. When I was a kid, I didn't get to go to kindergarten until I was six years old. Now it's full babysitting across the country, because we're red-green running, because we're setting targets and reaching the targets we're setting. The right side will make it less accessible for kindergarten. They want to raise prices, which means that more people who have bad advice may not be able to afford to send their kids to kindergarten. Both the Right and the Left are headed for higher prices. They thus impose an extra tax on families with children, which is in reality when a raise the price of kindergarten – 750 kroner per year from the left, 1500 kroner from the right. Them about it! They talk about tax relief, but make everyday life more difficult for families with children. We are betting on cohesion when we extend housing support to more people, especially people living in municipal housing. They're getting extra support. Balancing differences means that the local government's social assistance budget is decreasing. We've seen, ever since it was right-wing rule and 145,000 were social welfare recipients, that there's always been a steady decline in the number of social welfare recipients. Social housing policy is extremely important. So over the course of this year, we've been investing in the construction of 3,000 new rental properties. We see that red-green municipalities, including right-hand municipalities, have invested in more social housing, while the municipalities that have the largest number of residents are the ones that have provided the least of the pot. There is no doubt that Oslo, who has been selling rental homes over the last few years, while there have become more people who are homeless, is on a completely wrong course and needs a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3380	The right-hand alternative budget has a clear commitment to school. The right cannot accept mediocre results in the Norwegian school. This is why we introduced the Knowledge Lift, with three pillars: clear learning objectives, national quality assessment system and a significant level of competence for school leaders and teachers. These three supports are prerequisites for achieving the quality promise in Norwegian school that a majority in this room wants. Kristin Halvorsen announced in his Declaration of Accession as Minister for the School that it would be a reform break. I support that, for we are certainly far from achieving the objectives of the Knowledge Promise. There are today fewer teachers in school than when today’s government took over in 2005. Good and dedicated teachers are the key to more learning for the students. We need to train a lot more, and we need to have better teacher training. But we also manage the school for those students who are currently in the education course. They also deserve qualified teachers. Therefore, this year too, the Right has prioritised funding for continuing training in its alternative budget – we have set aside 400 million. kr more and doubled the effort compared to the Government. Kristin Halvorsen has reason to be brilliantly satisfied with the Right Alternative Budget. However, she has little reason to welcome her own draft budget. More teachers in school are well and good, but they have to be trained first. It'll take time. If we're going to raise the quality, it's essentially the teachers who are already in school that we now have to bet on. The council had stood by to admit this. We know a lot about the quality in Norwegian school. But knowledge is hard fought, and against the will of many. The current Minister of Education Trond Giske is said to have received a pamphlet at the National Meeting of the Federation of Education, when he promised not to introduce a quality assessment system in the school. In 2005, Kristin Halvorsen believed that it was enough to test a sample of 5 to 10 pst. by students to know the level of education. Four years later, the status is that SV has understood that national tests have come to be. But the same attitude to knowledge applies. The findings shall only be taken for information purposes. The right is fundamentally different from the Government in knowledge. The very purpose of the national tests is to find out if the students are actually learning what they are going to do. Failure to comply with measures in which it fails does not result in a functioning of the national tests. National tests give us the opportunity to apply measures to students in need of help. We didn't have this opportunity before. Now we have it, but the government doesn't use it. I have made some searches back in debates in this room. In the case of the red-green parties, school policy is very much about a journey of opinion where others at all times step out of the course. They don't know where they want to go, and they don't get where they should be. The inconsistency is striking. In the opposition, Kristin Halvorsen was upset that some school owners took out their own payments in violation of the Training Act. As the responsible school council, she has not reached that 70 pst. by school owners, they do not comply with the requirements of the Training Act for adapted training. Disappointingly, many municipalities do not take seriously that they are responsible for the content of the school. Then the Council of State must ensure that the children get what they are entitled to. Today, the students are the losers in the slumset follow-up of school owners. I agree with the Minister of Knowledge on one thing, that PISA does not say everything about the level in Norwegian school. But there ends the consensus. Because if we are to avoid PISA being the leader of the school debate, we just have to make sure that we have our own systematic knowledge of the quality of education. That means that there must be openness and transparency. We need an open debate and external pressure on the school if it's going to improve. Without transparency, we'll again be dependent on OECD and PISA studies to find out what's going on in Norwegian school. It's unsatisfactory. The draft budget for the Ministry of Knowledge does not answer the most important questions of Norwegian school policy now. The proposal does not answer the question of how to guarantee our children the right to receive the education they need to develop their abilities. The proposal does not respond to four years of warning from quality control. What should have been priority number. One is hardly mentioned. The budget responds to long-term objectives that are uncontroversial and that are difficult to criticise, but do not address the most important issues at school. There is no strategy to ensure adapted training, which a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has instructed the Government to give priority to it. The publication of poor school results may be discouraging, but the effect of stabbing the head in the sand is that these schools continue to offer poor education to students. It can't possibly be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3408	Cultural policy was the first spring of cooperation between the red-green parties. In March 2004, the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party launched the cultural initiative in response to the Bondevik government's cultural announcement. The successful project inspired further red-green cooperation. Following the 2005 elections, the cultural promise became an important point in the policy of the new government. Culture has ended up in the policy elite division with the red-green government. Over the course of five years, we have increased the appropriations by NOK 2.7 billion, and we have implemented almost all of the promises of the Cultural Promise I, many years before the time. For the next four years, the red-green parties have set themselves new ambitious goals for the cultural campaign through the Cultural Promise II. The government is betting on all kinds of culture, on the professional artists and on the amateurs. We bet on children and the elderly, and we bet in town and in the village. We have made sure that the whole country can now experience opera through the regional and regional operas. We have contributed to the creation and production of films both in Kautokeino, in Lillehammer, in Bergen and in Oslo. We have introduced youth cultural maps in ten counties, and we have established the cultural spaserstick as one of many actions to make culture accessible to everyone. We're increasing the cultural budget by over 800 million. kr in the budget for 2010. That's twice as much as the Bondevik government increased in four years. It says something about this government's commitment to culture. Voluntaryness is one of the budget winners in 2010. Just before the summer holiday, Minister of Culture Trond Giske agreed with the Freewill Norway and the Norwegian Sports Association that voluntary action should be compensated for VAT expenditure. By 2014, the Culturelift is to bet DKK 1 billion on a permanent VAT compensation scheme. The first 200 million. kr is now in place in the 2010 budget. This VAT compensation scheme represents the greatest effort on the voluntary nature of the State budget ever in history. On top of this, the government has changed the key, introduced new revenues for Norwegian Typing and compensated teams and organisations for the losses of the automatic revenues. And as if that's not enough: from 1 July 2010, we're introducing a system of cultural VAT. It will be particularly positive for sport, for museums and some other cultural institutions. This means that non-governmental organisations will save half a billion VAT dollars. The red-green government has fulfilled the promises of full babysitting and has legalised the right to babysitting. This is the biggest welfare reform in the last 30 years. From being an offer to a small minority of kids, kindergarten has become an offer to anyone who wants it. In addition, we have halved the maximum price in a kindergarten in private kindergartens, and the price in municipal kindergartens has decreased by 40 pst. The result is that even more families can afford and will have kindergarten. But the kindergarten bet is not over. In the coming years, there will be a need for even more kindergartens, and the 2010 budget provides for the construction of more than 7 000 new places. In addition, next year the maximum price for parental payment will be NOK 2330. This means that a kindergarten place will be cheaper next year, and that we have taken another step closer to the goal of the kindergarten agreement on a maximum price of NOK 1700 in 2003 kroner. I have registered that the Progress Party is the only one of the opposition parties that does not run from what we agreed in the Kindergarten Agreement, thus supporting the Government's proposal for a maximum price for parental payment. In the spring, the Stortinget decided that the private kindergartens should have funding equal to that of the municipal authorities. The government is now following up on this. The first heads will be in place from the fall of 2010. Increased appropriations for private kindergartens will lead to better pay and working conditions as well as more educators and other employees there. The first step in kindergarten was full kindergarten coverage. The next step now is to raise the quality. The competence of child care workers is essential for quality. This is why more pre-school teachers are trained than ever, and further training for assistants is under way. In addition, the Family and Culture Committee is now addressing a growing awareness of the quality of kindergartens, proposing a number of measures to provide young people with an even better provision of care and educational services. Children's gardens and culture have been important for the red-green government in the last four years. It will also be in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3435	Many of the speeches in this debate have pointed out that Norway is increasingly cutting the UN ranking of the best countries to live in. There are also statements that the Progress Party fully agrees with. Once the top is reached, it is in sports or as the top ranked country to live in, it is very important that enough incentives are provided to maintain its top position. For Norway, this is achieved through a well-functioning business life and a high level of oil and gas production. The Progress Party is concerned in its policy that we have a differentiated business life that has predictable framework conditions in terms of taxes and taxes. A prerequisite for the Norwegian industry to compete with similar foreign companies is that the state provides the companies with the same taxes and taxes imposed on the industry in the competing countries. Norway has all the prerequisites for remaining a large energy nation. We have large natural resources in the form of oil, gas, water and wind, etc. We have a very competent energy industry, and our human resources are among the best in the world. The only thing that can prevent sensible development as a large energy nation is the uncertainty of taxes and taxes — which are policy-making. The foreground will focus on both petroleum and renewable energy in the future. Critical voices from environmental protection organisations, and not least from the SV and partly from the Centre Party, are in favour of reducing oil and gas extraction. Areas such as the Lofoten and the Vestreål must not be opened for exploration. Oil and gas shall be replaced by wind and other renewable energy. It is the solution of these parties to the energy needs of the future. This can probably be achieved in the very long term. However, the reality is quite different. If Norwegian energy exports are to be replaced by windmills, which are most nearby, 110 000 of the largest mills produced today must be built. The future demand for oil and gas is also reflected in the IEA World Energy Outlook report. Here it is said that the world will need oil and gas for at least 20 years. Large Norwegian oil and gas production over the next 20 to 30 years will help reduce CO2 emissions, as this energy will replace many large coal-fired power plants. The Progress Party wants the Government to submit overall plans for Norwegian energy policy to the Stortinget for the next 20–30 years. Such a report must be comprehensive and include energy, environment, industry and infrastructure. The Progress Party is particularly concerned about the power-intensive industry. This world-leading industry is often located in areas with little other business. Decommissioning sites in several places in the country could have disastrous consequences for individual communities. The Progress Party believes that the Government has not fully addressed this issue and has ensured that this industry has been given the same conditions as foreign competitors. In December 2008, the EU adopted a revision of the Trade Directive. One supporting element was to implement greenhouse gas emission reductions using allowances trading without causing carbon leakage. Carbon leakage means that efficient industry is moved from countries with climate costs of emissions and on power prices to countries without such costs. The EU decision allows Norwegian authorities to implement real price reductions for Norwegian power-intensive industry. The Progress Party will strongly request the Government to make use of the EU Trade Directive. It could cost the power-intensive industry in Norway for the period 2013-2020 in line with industry in the EU. This will be a good climate policy, while the world-leading Norwegian power-intensive industry will continue to evolve in the future for the benefit of its owners, the community and the country. The Party further opposes the imposition of a levy on biodiesel. This charge will give environmental work a negative angle. For the country, this fee for 2010 only means about approx. 200 million. kr. On 25 November, the head of the transport committee in Akershus went out against this fee in a big look in the magazine of Rome. Only in 2010, with half a fee, will the additional costs of the collective offer in Akershus amount to an estimated 15-18 million. kr. To cover these costs, it has to be cut in the collective offer. The finance minister from the environmental party SV thought hardly of such cuts when the fees were introduced through the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3461	In a government budget, there is a great deal of focus on increasing expenditure. And increased expenses are usually good news. In the Center Party, we are very happy with the budget we are now dealing with. Better urban economy is important in order to ensure a better school and care services. Increased commitment to transport is important in order to be more effective on behalf of and better train provision. The Central Party and the Government are taking important red-green steps in the budget. But some increases in the budget give cause for concern. The growth of sick leave and other social security benefits is very worrying. Too much growth in social security expenditure can actually weaken confidence and the emergence of our good social security system. The budget, the Government’s realignment of sickness benefit payments in 2009 and the ongoing renegotiation of the IA agreement have triggered a major debate on the sickness pay scheme. I am pleased with this debate, not least because it is a substantive and good debate on how to maintain the world's best health pay scheme while reducing sick leave. The aim of the centre party is to rapidly achieve a lasting decline in sick leave, so that in 2010 we may be able to escape the 1 p.m. growth in sick leave that has been raised in the budget and thus avoid getting into the situation that we have to do as we have done in 2009, to adjust the estimate by over DKK 3 billion. Although there is a process going on between the social partners to negotiate a new IA agreement, this room must also be used to discuss this very important issue. For this is the bill for lack of action for the seventh and last ports. The Centre Party has the following framework for this work: All new proposals shall meet with an open mind. That is why we have, for example: gave us a positive opinion on the Swedish scheme with a standardised sick notification period. We must dare to look at other countries’ efforts to reduce sick leave, and what works, we must take Norway into account. The principle of full pay in the case of sickness shall be based on this principle. We live well in the Central Party that the IMF believes Norway has lucrative welfare arrangements. The Norwegian problem is that we have too much sick leave; the Norwegian problem is not that we have too good welfare arrangements. Reductions in sick leave shall not be achieved through reduced professional participation and a tougher working life. Workers must also contribute to this process. We want to strengthen the use of instruments. The obligation of workers must be strengthened. Furthermore, the centre party is open to the employer to take a greater part of the bill that comes with long-term absence. However, in the event of changes here, it is important that particular attention be paid to the specific needs of small businesses. We need to take advantage of the good examples from workplaces and businesses where one has managed to reduce sick leave. I think the debate that is going on now, in itself, can help to focus on sick leave, and actually bring it down. It's naive to believe that, but it's a little bit special that a population that's getting fresher and fresher is going to be more and more sick. For the Centre Party, it is turning the negative trend with growth in both sick leave and more and more on disability, one of the main challenges ahead. Everyone at work is a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox That will be a good slogan for the job to be done. The central party believes that at the bottom of that effort there must be a solidarity budget with a rate of strong common well-being. There is such a budget the Government has now submitted. After following the debate today, it may seem that some of us are afraid to vote in favour of this budget. I must say that I am delighted to vote in favour of the government's draft budget for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3491	The representative Pollestad is pleased to vote in favour of this budget, and I am pleased to vote against it. This week the Prime Minister has announced that he actually wants to follow up the 2008 climate agreement, concluded between the Government and three opposition parties. This implies increasing the blending of biofuels into fossil fuels in Norway. I'm going to leave it to others to consider why it got so much attention that the Prime Minister says he intends to keep what he has previously promised, but a confession to SV and the Center Party was in any case not. When the representative, Thorkildsen, tried earlier today to present it as if SV had got something new and radical, it was therefore either an attempt to trick itself or an attempt to trick their voters. For a party that, in its own words, does not understand its own proposals, the first is probably considerably easier than the last. The biodiesel levy is controversial, and in revenue it represents a disappearing small part of the 2010 state budget. Still, it's right to spend time on it, also in this hall. It has been no more than three months since the government councils Solheim and Brustad travelled to the Norwegian Forest plant on Follum to praise the development of new biodiesel technology based on residual waste from the wood industry. Nor has it been many months since the Minister for the Environment, with the custom of modest use of words, opened the biodiesel factory Uniol in Fredrikstad. One should perhaps stop being surprised at the distance between words and action in the government's environmental policy, even though the pattern is beginning to become quite clear. But the biodiesel issue is about more than environmental policy. It is about predictable framework conditions and about the trust between the Government and the business community that wants to invest in green technology and industrial development. That's what's at the heart of the problem. However, the Prime Minister has some good arguments for introducing a biodiesel tax. There are hardly anyone in this room who doesn't recognize that biodiesel also has problematic sides. There are some types of biofuels that should not be produced at all. We agree that sustainability criteria are important and correct, and it makes sense to wait with 5 pst. the incorporation until they are in place. It is also in the climate agreement, and we expect, of course, the government to follow it up. The right thus agrees with the Prime Minister that there is reason to be skeptical about some types of 1st generation biofuels. At the same time, we read Darwin down there that it's hard to capture the second generation if you've killed the first generation. No one in this room expects biofuels to be exempt forever, but we expect stable, predictable framework conditions for an exciting new growth industry based on Norwegian technology, raw material, competence and capital. The breach of confidence is now a fact, not only between the biodiesel operators and the Government, but between all those who want to invest in green technology development and environmentally friendly industrial development. The question that is now pressing forward is whether what we have seen this year is a warning that the tax exemption for cars and buses running on electricity, gas, hydrogen and bioethanol will be removed as early as next year. What is the Government's actual signal that it wants to send to business operators and consumers who count on the buttons whether to bet green and forward-looking? What municipalities will do like Oslo and buy a new series of bioethanol buses if there is uncertainty as to whether keeping conventional diesel buses in operation will be cheaper as early as next year? It's a little bit of comfort that the government has found $40 million. kr extra for the development of eco-innovations. It's $140 million. kr to be spread thinly to all those developing eco-innovations. To the right, we believe that we need to do far more if we are to succeed in making the climate challenge an opportunity and not just a problem. Norway has unique environments of expertise and technology, and we have all the prerequisites for creating values through the development and commercialisation of new green environmental technologies. For some in this room, saving the environment by taking a short shower, shutting down the heat at home and chewing, this may be an unorthodox way of saving the environment – but it works. Climate challenges will require changes, but these include: up to us whether those changes should be the end of something good or the start of something better. Therefore, the Right has proposed that environmental investment should become one of the main priorities for the use of oil money in the years to come. The Stoltenberg I government presented an action rule in which the return on oil money was to be used to invest for the future, especially in growth-promoting measures such as taxation, knowledge and infrastructure. It was a lurking rule, provided that the government had dealt with it. The right considers that the environment should become a fourth area of oil money use, and therefore proposes to set at DKK 5 billion in an Eco-Tech Fund in 2010. But SEK 5 billion can only be the beginning of what should become a significant fund in the years to come. However, it will require the Government to spend less money on short-term consumption today and to create more room for investment that will bring growth and well-being tomorrow. At P4 this week, the Minister for the Environment stated that politicians had lower environmental ambitions than industry. The directors go ahead, the politicians go after, said Solheim. In the light of this week's most mentioned case, few people disagree with this description from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3540	At a time when the world has experienced an economic setback that has made millions of workers worldwide unemployed, at a time when unemployment in the euro zone is expected to be over 10 p.m., at a time when the government ten months ago put forward the strongest measures to mitigate the growth of unemployment over 30 years, at a time when the recession in the global markets is going to be accompanied by low earnings and great uncertainty for many industries, at a time when the world will experience that unemployment as a result of the international recession is going to be high even in the coming years, the Government has provided a budget adapted to this ratio. At the same time, at this time, the political opposition in Norway has the power to gather all its power to mark its distance from a small proportion of a single charge, the so-called autodiesel tax on biodiesel. So what can the motive be for this uniting force? Most importantly, it is enough to cover the fact that the opposition has not found so many attack points in the state budget on the core areas of Norwegian welfare. Yes, even they spewed the attempts to characterize the use of oil money that the irresponsible has drowned as they found out that they had to use as much themselves to cover their own budgets. The government and government parties have, by a majority, provided for high employment and low unemployment since 2005. During this period, unemployment has been record low and employment has been record high. I would like to stress something the Prime Minister said earlier today, because I think it is important: Norway has had lower unemployment and higher employment through the financial crisis than was the case throughout the period 2001–2005. Low unemployment, high employment and good value creation are essential. It is the basis of well-being. In 2010, it is assumed that the growth of the mainland economy will be 2 pst., towards a decrease of 1 pst. in 2009. Despite this, it is estimated that the unemployment rate will increase in 2010 to an estimated 3.75 pst. Today we have an leave of 2.6 pst. When the unemployment rate is calculated to be as high as 3,75 p.m., this means that about 30 000 more unemployed people will go without work. This underlines the fact that the financial crisis will continue to affect us. It is this relationship and consideration that we should continue to have high employment and good value creation leading to the Workers' Party's approach to fiscal policy. The particularly good situation, where Norway is in a special position in terms of high employment and low unemployment, and where value creation is good, is not a matter of course. It's about powerful, robust businesses. It's about knowledge and adaptability. But it's also about the impact of the economic policy that's been going on in recent years. A Fafo report that came earlier this fall points precisely to the Norwegian model of society when explaining why the consequences of the financial crisis have decreased in Norway than in other countries. The statistics also show that from 2005 to mid-2009, more than 10 times as many jobs have been created as in the previous four-year period, more than 200,000 more jobs. Four out of five new jobs came in private business. Overall, this reflects the good soundness and efficiency of the Norwegian economy and business. It is a good concept of the innovative power of our society. High employment, low unemployment and good value creation are the foundation of the current financial situation of the Storting. Therefore, the biodiesel autodiesel tax has become the aggregate force of the opposition – not because a tax exemption is necessarily the best way to promote future biodiesel production. No, there I think both the integration ratio and the environmental technology focus are more important and more correct. But it is, of course, an attempt to conceal a good budget, which is adapted to the time we are in, a budget for high employment, low unemployment and still high value creation for a time that is more demanding than for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3559	The progress party is concerned that Norway should become an even better country to live and live in than it is today. That is what is the basis of our policy. We want the individual to get a better, safer and more meaningful everyday life. This is why basic welfare services in municipalities are of course an important part of it. We want a need-driven, state-funded funding of basic welfare services in municipalities, where there is a need for e.g.: hospitalization, home care, schooling, etc. triggers a government funding. That means there's no difference between living in a poor municipality and living in a rich municipality. The financing of basic welfare services shall be ensured in any case. Until we realize that, of course, we have to start from today's model. We increase the transfers to the municipalities by approx. $4.2 billion This means more to use for resource-required services. It means a strengthening of the investment incentive to sick homes, and that means an increase in free resources, to mention something. So even if the government party claims something else, there's little evidence that we're going to have a strong municipal economy for years to come. Here I have today's Municipal Report, and here it says that the municipalities plan to cut in school and care. The councillors in the municipalities claim that six out of ten municipalities get tougher times in 2010 compared to 2009. Notodden Municipality is one of the municipalities that wears a lot. The councillor in Notodden, Magnus Mathisen, is the interview. It is stated in the Municipal Report: ‘In the draft budget, he proposes to make 54 nursing homes and to remove all support to sports facilities and to the local airport, which is thus closed, a maximum of property taxes and the removal of the bottom-up deduction, a reduction in teacher's density. He will review the school structure, eliminate paid food breaks and renegotiate the local arrangement with the teachers, with a view to removing functional supplements.’ This does not mean that the municipalities feel that the local economy will be strengthened. On the contrary, many around the municipalities experience this budget as a pure feeding of the municipalities. The Progress Party has proposed a strengthening. For the Notodden municipality, this would mean over 10 million. kr more to the municipal budget, to the municipal economy. It probably wouldn't have solved all the challenges the Notodden has, but at least it would have improved the situation significantly. It may be that if the Notodden had received 10 million. kr extra, had a kick to do in 54 sick places. One might have bothered to recite teachers and to reduce the supply to students. Another challenge in the municipal sector is that we have a budgeting code, an accounting code that covers the real economic situation of municipalities. In your locality, you don't have a depreciation, but you have a deduction as an expense. As the municipalities often have very long payoff periods, it means that what happens in terms of instalments does not correspond to the depreciation that real depreciation would result. This is why it is an important challenge in the future for us to have real accounting legislation, which shows the costs of maturity, both on construction and other investments. More money for municipalities is important. Of course, there are other grips that one should take. Ein has 430 municipalities in this country. It's time for an active person to enter and look at the municipal structure and stimulate municipal convergence. Of course, it is also important to strengthen competition – internal and external competition – so that we can make good use of municipal resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3579	The Workers' Party has been a driving force in the building of the welfare state in the post-war period and to what we know today as the Nordic social model. The basic principle of this model and of the Workers' Party is that the community takes joint responsibility for some basic tasks in society and solves them jointly, such as school, care for the elderly, health and social services. It is also fundamental to a responsible economic policy and cooperation with the social partners. For the Workers' Party, this is important in order to achieve our social development objectives. Remembering these times last year, we had a cross-political understanding of the financial crisis and its seriousness in relation to the collapse of financial markets, the failure of jobs in the construction industry in particular and the risk of redundancies and high unemployment. In the dramatic situation, it has been right to use more of the oil revenues and to transform fiscal policy vigorously into an expansive direction. That also meant the opposition. Last year’s common understanding of the crisis is important to maintain it in the future. The financial crisis has not been lifted. Although the situation appears to be better in Norway than in many other countries, and the outlook for the Norwegian economy in 2010 is better than previously foreseen, the uncertainty is high. Unemployment is expected to increase next year, and low growth and increasing unemployment are the reasons why the Government has committed to a weakly expansive budget for 2010. The rule of action shall ensure the proper use of oil revenues over a period of time estimated at 4 pst. of the capital of the oil fund. That doesn't mean we're going to use exactly 4 pst every year. On the contrary, since the rule of action was made, it has been said that oil revenue should be used to balance the fluctuations in the economy. That's what the government has done in recent years, and proposes to do for next year too. The use of oil revenues has now risen to a high level. The government has therefore notified that, for reasons such as: The competitive sector needs to be brought back to the 4 p.m. path in the future, as prospects improve and growth in the Norwegian economy rise. This is an important signal of future policy by the red-green government, which was also underlined in the election campaign. We will pursue a policy that will provide both the basis for strengthening and improving the welfare state and keeping people at work. These are challenges for which the Government provides the basis in the 2010 government budget and which are announced in the years to come, including: in the speeches of the Minister of Finance here today. It is claimed that values change in society, and that people are more concerned with their own needs, inequalities, diversity, free choice and willingness to pay than with equality. I'm not so sure that's right. Most people have realized that social democratic values do not mean equality regardless of individuality. They have realized that we are concerned that everyone should have real freedom of choice, not just the few who can afford, that we will give everyone equal opportunities to evolve and live the life they themselves want, through a fair and solidarity distribution. A majority of the people want social democratic social development, based on the social democratic values. The results of the elections in the autumn underlined this. The majority of the population mandated the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre to continue with the Red-Green Government – a government that creates predictability and long-termity in politics, and that is responsible for a different social development from that of the right parties. People want predictability and security in a turbulent time of financial crisis, climate crisis and food crisis. People want predictability and security for work and public service. That's what we went to elections on, and that's what we're doing in the state budget to be adopted here today. I think most people today are happy with the choice they made this fall. It is very difficult to see what alternative social developments a right-wing government would be facing here today, if we look at the alternative proposals for the state budget that exist. The proposals crack in every direction, just like the promises during the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3603	We are about to approach nine and a half hours in the debate. There have been a lot of good posts here, interesting posts, and there have been a lot of explanations about why you vote as you do. The first thing that struck me when I heard from the representative Lundtigen's posts here today was that the representative has now had to replace the wish case, which he has had with him several times in this room, and even had to taste the Spanish tube so that he will vote correctly at the end of the debate today. Here it's said a lot in the so-called biodiesel business, and I'm going to get into it at the end of my post. I want to put a searchlight on something that is a complete lack in the budget. We've been talking for a number of years about the importance of both renewing and modernising the public sector. We've talked about the importance of simplifying, so that small and medium-sized enterprises get a easier and better everyday life, that they don't spend too much time submitting a series of forms. A positive contribution that has been made is the ALTINN system, but then the question is, why has it stopped? In this budget, very few traces are left of what is just about to be simplified and organised, so that small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the very support of the Norwegian system, will have a easier and better daily life to create values. It's sad that you don't follow up on this, and I expect the government at the next crossroads to at least make sure to grasp these things again. If not, a number of other companies will also notice the financial crisis in a different way from what you are doing now. Then I'm glad that the government parties also say that the financial crisis is not over. Many have hardly felt the crisis. Someone is standing with both legs planted in it, while others see that this is going to hit them really hard – then I am talking about the yard industry and other export-oriented industry. I expect action to come back quickly, because the budget that is here today does not deal with the problems that these industries are going to face. It is already stated today that it is difficult to obtain funding. It is difficult to get the solutions that they need in order to solve the problems when the word drought becomes too complete. I want to grasp the biodiesel issue from a business-economic point of view to illustrate that the state that owns, and the state that provides the loan, is also giving a very strange signal. I would like to mention the following: the state owns 43.5 pst. in Cermaq, and Cermaq owns 13 pst. in Uniol. Innovation Norway has given EUR 5 million as a government instrument. kr in direct aid to Uniol. And then they've given us another $15 million. kr in nationwide innovation loans, and on top of that, 30 million have been granted. kr in low risk loans. Yeah, it won't stop there. Now it also turns out that DnB NOR, where the state is one of the principal owners, is one of the principal lenders of the same enterprise that we can experience, as a result of the decision in the budget taken here today, that perhaps after five months of operation it has to be dropped. Then this must be the most expensive string cutter Erik Solheim has ever done. It has only taken five months from this company's opening, and until that – but let's hope it doesn't happen – it has to leave its employees and close the doors. This is a serious signal to those who actually believed in the state, when, through their arrangements, the state is in charge of guaranteeing businesses, lending and ensuring that employees have safe jobs. This is a very bad signal from the state, and I am surprised that the centre party and SV have let themselves be whipped by the spanish pipe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3620	I want to concentrate on the local economy in my contribution to this financial debate, but before I do, this evening's debate has provided the following clarification from a fresh representative of the big business: I would have asked that the Siv Jensen of the Progress Party should present the position as a voter who has been forced to vote for the state budget, including biodiesel. This evening’s debate can be characterised as an exercise in tunnel vision, where the opposition has barely dealt with anything other than biodiesel. It's amazing to observe, not least when the state budget is worth an incredible $1,000 billion. The total income of the local government sector in 2010 will be DKK 333 billion. Very much of the nation's funds go to this important sector that produces services for all of us. The red-green government has managed the financial crisis in an exemplary way. This can be seen when comparing Norway with other comparable countries. Of course, our financial resources have played a role, but device, timing and control are the things that have produced the good results. The municipal sector has been part of this device. We have done a lot of maintenance work on municipal buildings through exceptional means and action packages. We have improved some municipal buildings, and the investment has led to increased employment in the construction industry, which was severely affected by recessions. So we have had a double effect: Better maintenance of public buildings and more in work. There is no certainty that tax relief, to which some batches swear, would have given the same effect. The 2010 budget strengthens the municipal sector by DKK 8 billion. This budget, together with the previous four years, has given us and gives us several kindergartens, several years of care and several child-rescue positions, and that the county roads are strengthened by DKK 1 billion. We are faced with the implementation of perhaps our most important reform, the cooperation reform. The 2010 budget contains 230 million. to the municipalities for prevention work. It's a start to an important work. The economic upswing of the global financial world and Norway’s handling of it show that the Government’s powers of action relate to the active use of instruments, when necessary. I feel sure, on behalf of the municipalities, that the overall municipal economy is also in safe hands for 2010. The government has committed itself offensively in 2010. There is a lot of oil money being used, but we have to go back to the 4 pst. path in the rule of action. Even if it is to be invested in the municipal sector in the future, it will require even more stringent priorities among local politicians. The red-green government has promised bets on, among others. care for the elderly through its promise of 12000 new health care places/housings by 2015. This objective can be achieved through joint efforts by the government and the local politicians to implement it in the municipalities. Policy is to give priority to what is less important. Another field, which concerns us all, is the increase in sick leave. There is a common challenge that requires joint action. The debate this past week seems to be driving people back into the trenches. There must be none of us, even though the parties have different political solutions. We must be able to have a debate on causes and possible measures – without being an attack on sick people. Of course, the debate must also involve the social partners. No one wants an increase in sick leave. None of the parties have served to increase their absence, either the individual, the workplace or the society. Municipality-Norway has a lot of needs, it's doing a lot of respectable work, it's done a lot, and it's targeting our most important resource, the people. Therefore, this work will never be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3641	I quote: "For money, a few things can be called. - No, one can't." [[...]] Although these words of Arne Garborg were not written for a financial debate in Stortinget, I would say that they fit well. The 2010 government budget proposal is a proposal for the use of the Norwegian people's money. The right-hand alternative budget proposal for 2010 is a proposal to use the money more ‘vitally’. We have reason to be proud of what we have done in Norway – proud but not satisfied. For while the wealth growth of ordinary people has been staggering over the last decades and the vast majority of people in Norway get more in their wallets, there are also others who fall outside. Last year there were 83 new workers each day. Yes, the number of people who fall out of work is increasing by a frightening strength, regardless of the economic cycle. Of course, many must and must have social security. A lot of people can't work. But it's no secret that many people who want and can contribute to the world of work don't get the chance. Perhaps the worst thing is that more and more young people fall out of the labour market, or never come in. This applies to both healthy and disabled young people. Many of these have first been failed by the school system and then been unloaded into a massive system of how many experience that demands for effort, trust and respect are replaced by often passivating transfers and resignations. As late as today we were able to read in the VG about the research report "A life I didn't choose" from the University of Agder and Agderforskning, which is about young people from the counties of East-Agder, Hedmark, Møre and Romsdal and Finnmark. Several of these young people are simply socialized into the role of sick. Most of us have also heard the story of Eivind Knutsen – in the NRK at the latest yesterday – who, when he turned 18, was told by his local social security office that he could now have his disability. He said no, I want to study jus, he answered. Eivind Knutsen is blind, and he is still not in social security. He's a lawyer. I can't imagine anything less valuable than a system where we think the job is done only as much as possible get a monthly check in the post office from the public. Such a client community is the true opposite of a real welfare society. In addition to increasing unemployment, there are a large number of job-seekers with disabilities, disabled people, out of work. The right has been concerned for several years about the trend in the priority of disabled people's bags. The draft budget estimates that there will be 92 000 people waiting for action. On questions from the Right, the Ministry answers that the number of waiting days for a disabled person seeking a job has increased by 50 in one year. This is too bad! At the discretion of the authorities, the certification companies indicate that they can set up several action sites. Right wants this. In our alternative state budget, therefore, we choose to increase the number of job-impaired job vacancies in the framework of labour market measures by 3000 places in 2010. Long-term absenteeism is another recruitment post for permanent exclusion. On the right, the Prime Minister is very pleased that the Prime Minister has now called for something to be done with long-term sick leave. Right here, it's important to get something together. We have to start by taking the debate on how we're going to do it without going into the trenches. Billions of this cost is not the main reason. Human costs are high. That's why it's urgent to do something about it. It's about quality of life. We can measure the cost in dollars and cents. It says black and white that the sum of all the benefits for people who in some form are out of work is a total of NOK 147 billion. In a country with several doctors, nurses, and nurses per In fact, if we are to measure it according to the costs of sick leave and social security, we are becoming more and more ill. And it happens in that country in the world that, alongside the United States, spends most on health. Right will go from chat to practice. We have therefore proposed a number of solutions in our alternative budget. We are shocked that the Prime Minister has seen and gained inspiration from the Right Sister Party in Sweden, but we would like to remind the Prime Minister that it is a shorter way to Højres Hus than to Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3674	I assume that the Right Party and the Advance Party have taken note of today's leader in today's business with the title of 'Anxious Opposition'. Usually the right forces drop off cheaply in that paper, but here they really get reviewed. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have today tried to present their budget proposals as less expansive than the Government's proposals, the Right's minimal difference and, at best, the Progress Party less – more money than usual, with their creative proposals. So around the budget, there is a lot of consensus, as I see it. It's almost so it's a little boring, but I interpret it as a broad consensus on the government's use of money. It's good for us, but it must be a little boring for those who are trying to present themselves as an economic opposition. For too many years, the transport sector has been a lower priority area. I'm not saying that five red-green budgets have only created prosperity in Society-Norway, but the "carrot paths" that the representative Hoksrud referred to in his statement earlier today are probably far beyond what can be said to be reality. Compared to what previous governments have done, this government has given transportation a huge boost. We overfilled the framework of the national transport plan in the previous period. We got a new, very ambitious national transport plan before the summer, with NOK 100 billion more over the next decade. With the draft budget for next year, we are well in the process of phasing in the planning framework for the next four years. I think the opposition is doing well not to pre-estimate our compliance with the framework of the National Transport Plan, as they have tried to do earlier today. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party show that we're betting on transportation. An increase of 34 pst. compared to last year to road investment and an increase of 14 pst. for railway purposes speak for themselves. We're going to be judged by what we do in position, and here we deliver. I do not expect the opposition to pay tribute to the government's commitment to commerce. That would be a bad opposition policy. But a recognition of the promise we are about to make could be fine, even if it would be a concession of their own lack of results when they themselves were put in power. I would particularly like to highlight the initiative on the railway. Those who say that today's railway doesn't keep track are right, but it comes from decades of neglect from changing governments. We're about to turn this development around. We have invested in rail – a record bet – and we need to invest even more in the coming years. We need more goods and passenger transport on the way. One third of our greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector. The best thing we can do to bring down the emissions is get more transport on the climate-friendly rail. High employment and low unemployment are the cornerstones of the Labour Party's policy. The efforts we have made in the past few years have contributed to this. The construction of track and road and maintenance has helped to keep employment in an industry that is hardest hit when the economy is poor. I would like to emphasise the importance of maintaining the pressure on transport in the coming years, not only from a point of view of accessibility and the environment, but also from an employment perspective, in the construction of both road and rail, but also because industry points to transport as one of the most important framework conditions. Then, in the public change of words after the budget was presented, I noticed that the head of the Transport Committee, from the Christian People's Party, has been high on the road in terms of road appropriations in Norway. With what I like to call progress party rhetoric, he has rolled over the standard on Norwegian roads and talked about everything the so-called environmental party Christian People's Party wants to build on the four-field highway. It is worth reminding Hareide that he himself was part of a government that spent far less money on transportation than what we are doing now. And what is the Christian People's Party's answer when it comes to concrete action? Well, they want to increase investment to roads by 1 pst. more than the Government. How that percentage is going to get us to heaven, away from what you almost describe as the other place down, you probably have to at least be KrFs to get the sense. The draft budget we are going to adopt this evening will be a good budget for more knowledge, for a better environment and for offensive transport policy. The government is increasing the appropriations in all areas. The fact that the debate's review theme today has largely focused on 180 million. I understand that the rest of the draft budget is difficult for the opposition to be targeted specifically, simply because it is a good budget in the area by region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3696	I'll help the previous speaker get started, I'll talk about the Defense. If he thought that everything else was so good, I'll talk a little bit about the defense, because I don't think the defense's woe is particularly well cared for with the budget that is now available. What I may miss most is that someone is discussing the defense. So today, much of the day has been used to discuss taxes on biodiesel. It's possible that it's important, but I think, with respect to reporting, there are other things that might be at least as important, whether you're in opposition, or whether you're in position. In Norway, we often like to go out and show that we are a peace-loving and peace-bearing nation. We want to face democracy, human rights, a level playing field for women and men and the growing-up conditions of children. We do that, and we kind of take it for granted that it's like at home with ourselves as well. And then we take the defense for granted, because the defense is a pre-missive for the well-being we have, and for the foundation on which the Norwegian state is built – just as the justice sector is. The justice sector is the second of the two heavy pillars involved in the rule of law and the rule of law. I am concerned about the situation of the Norwegian defence. I think it's not being focused enough – it's not "sexy" enough to talk about the defense. To the extent that we discuss defence, we discuss the situation around our engagement in Afghanistan. I have all the respect for it, because it's important, but it's like we're also dependent on a defense at home. Consultations held by the Committee have focused on major shifts and large investments. That's right, but one challenge is, what do you do pending the introduction of new equipment? I assume that for a person who wants to buy a new dwelling, it would be extremely stupid to sell the dwelling that you live in before buying anything else. Then you're on the bar. I'm not going to say that the defense is on the bar, but that they have some challenges, is raised above any doubt. I believe that the investments in the frigates are good, because it has to do with part of the Northern Region strategy. But it assumes that we have crews to complain about this. I think it is good to have ordered – and even started to pay – new helicopters for the frigates, but it would have been interesting if we could get them! So they should have been delivered in 2005. Now we're talking about 2010, we're talking about 2011, and we're talking about 2012. It is possible that this is good enough for the Government, but at least that is not good enough for us. I believe that there should have been a grip here and taken more control over it. So we're going to buy new fighter planes in the short term. I hope that the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Finance, as I see it here, can assure the Storting that a plan of progress is to be maintained that is better than the one we have in the case of new helicopters for the frigates. And it would have been tempting to raise the debate on rescue helicopters and a decision that was taken here on 16 May 2002. Now the government is talking about flying Sea King until 2020. With all due respect, it's 18 years later. It is possible that someone would say that it is tough and good. I think it's relatively bad, with respect to reporting. So a little bit about Afghanistan. Sometimes it happens that we also lose some of our people who are there doing a job. Then there is often a big debate about whether it is a good idea to participate – whether we should, if we can, and whether we should participate. My answer to that is immediately yes. And I believe that all those who are out on foreign missions deserve all sorts of credit and support from the political environment, because it will be involved and give them status. If no nation wants to care about a country like Afghanistan, where the Taliban kind of hosts and terrorizes its own people, where they attack us, where they refuse to go to school, where women are oppressed, if we don't stand up and fight for it, who will? Where were we from 1940 to 1945, when people came from Canada to Norway, when people from the United States came here – who died here as part of our struggle for freedom and in the rest of Europe? There are foreign soldiers who are buried here in the country, who gave their lives in a very different place from their homeland, because it was required, and because they saw it as necessary. I believe that this is clearly transferable to our commitment to Afghanistan. I am absolutely sure that with the quality of the Norwegian forces and the other international contributions, we can actually achieve what we want, namely a stable Afghanistan, where girls are allowed to go to school, and where women are given a new position. But then the world society has to dry up for the values that we take for granted in our daily lives. If not, we will also show that we are not upright about what we believe in. The only winner that will then be left is the ones we fought against, and that will get closer to us, namely terrorist organisations like the Taliban. We cannot afford that – with the Norwegian defence – at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3715	Today we handle a budget for work for everyone. That's our main goal. The 2010 budget is a good basis for growth in the Norwegian economy in the future. The budget facilitates increased value creation throughout the country. Efforts on research and innovation are strengthened. In addition, we are strengthening efforts on many schemes for business. Norway has a clearly lower unemployment rate than most other countries. This is because we have had the opportunity to introduce countercyclical policies into the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. The forecasts for the next year indicate that the number of unemployed will continue to increase. We then need a government that is willing to put in place measures to counteract this. However, it is quite clear that, when the situation in the Norwegian economy improves, measures need to be stepped down. The interest rate is now historically low, but Norway Bank has signalled a gradual rise. The use of oil money must be brought back to the 4 pst. path. It is sad to note that the decline in employment has been strongest for people under 25 years of age. There's a big waste of our youth if they're sent out to work. In fact, we need every youth in the world of work when we know about the major demographic challenges we face. We must therefore invest in labour market measures, which have increased by 3000 in the budget. We need to invest in youth guarantee schemes, adapt the provision of vocational and vocational training for those jobseekers who have not completed further work, and more timeless job opportunities, because our top goal is to work for everyone and that those who fall outside have to have an offer. In times of crisis, we need to focus on both innovation and innovation and labour market measures. It is not always the case that a person who loses his job, for example: in the West, can quickly move to a new position elsewhere. We therefore need to work continuously on conversion, measures and innovation. And then we have to have a whole budget. That is why we are committed to well-being, to hospitals, to assistance, to the environment. It may not be as easy for the opposition, who will try to execute large tax cuts that they have promised, at the same time as they will get into a whole budget. We see it in the Progress Party's budget. They cut $8.2 billion in the budget of the Labour and Social Committee without saying anything about where to cut it. The qualification programme is almost eliminated, but without saying how to get these people back to work. As usual, they cut over half of the agricultural support – NOK 6.3 billion this year – on an already concluded agreement. They shall remove the toll stations without doing any damage to the budget. In addition, they boast that they spend less money than the Government, but the discovery does not match good budgeting practices. It might not have been feasible in a real government budget. The right-hand side also uses some of the same things, e.g. Two billion kroner in cuts on agriculture, it's a little bit smaller than the Progress Party, but still the money from an already concluded agreement, and tax credits to those who have the most of them. – Nothing new, in other words, but they have to use the means to cover it up! It is to be taken from the world's poorest to give to those who have the most history. Fortunately, it is the red-green government’s budget to be adopted here tonight – a budget that is sound, that has a good distribution profile, that invests in value creation, and that also takes care of those who fall outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3738	The case of biodiesel has dominated the debate here today. For a while I was actually thinking about making an article about the most important support of our society, which is the family, from a biodiesel perspective. But joke to side. We must not forget that today we are debating and voting on one of the most important issues we are dealing with in a year's time, namely next year's state budget – the state budget that will have consequences for each of us, and that will affect each family. Never has so much money been spent in a government budget as next year. Not one word we've heard from the red-greens that such use of oil money will mean that the oil fund becomes empty, that it's an airlock, or that it's monopoly money we use. Not one representative from the red-green has been critical. We had the Prime Minister who raised the budget in the clouds, and ended his speech by saying that this budget is 'for work, for well-being and for sustainability'. I would say that even if the government never spends so much money, there will be no more work, welfare or sustainability, for the whole device and profile of the government budget go in the wrong direction. The government's use of money is not enough to secure jobs. It does not do enough for well-being when we see that the differences between people and poverty are still there, and it does not do enough for the sustainability, which for the Progress Party is the family of society. An investment in the future is an investment in the family. Good family policy is incredibly important for the whole welfare state, and it has not taken this government into account. Each of us lives in a kind of family, and each small or large family is a small enterprise that needs good and predictable framework conditions in everyday life. The family is a natural, valuable and fundamental element, which provides an important framework for the growth and future of children. Then it is important for each small or large family to have safe jobs, for each family to retain more of its own income every month, not to increase interest rates, not to increase the cost of petrol or diesel, not to increase electricity prices, to have access to kindergartens, to be safe and good for school, to have leisure activities, and to have safe roads and not to spend their entire salary on tolls, as well as taxes and charges. - All this is related. Such everyday things are what's important to each of us: how much do we have to travel with, and how do we set up our everyday life? For once, I'm going to brag about the media that every year manages to focus on what the state budget means to both you and me, what that means for each of us. What does an interest rate increase mean for our wallet, and what does increasing charges mean for us? The Progress Party believes that the family needs to retain more of its own income to a far greater extent than today and to be able to adapt and organise its everyday life according to the needs of each family. It must be freedom of choice, space of action and justice. That is not the case today, and this is a bet on the family and on the future. The budget of the Progress Party has taken the family seriously. With the tax arrangements of the Advance Party, a family will receive much less tax, and once again there will be more to route with each month for each individual. They will have increased child welfare, as it is a shame that governments have not been able to adjust prices in the last 13 years. They will not pay tolls and high charges. They simply get to keep more of their own money. They get their freedom back over their own everyday life and family. Today's government has allowed the public to take over more and more tasks instead of strengthening the family position, and I am afraid that we will see more of the next four years. The Progress Party believes that an active and proper family policy will bring significant social benefits both in the short and long term. It is very important that we give families considerable freedom over their daily lives, freedom of choice and the right to dispose of their own family situation. The Progress Party will also warn against weakening the role of parents in relation to the child. The public can never fully replace the parents in creating a secure framework and belonging to the individual child. The public cannot go in and review the individual family in terms of leave, and it is because we have to have room for equality because others do not recognize that father must have his right in the event of a breakup. Again, this is a state over-test against the freedom of the individual family. It's getting late in the evening, and biodiesel has, as I said, dominated today's debate. But I would like to remind the government parties that if they do not vote on the opposition's proposal, the decision of the evening will lead, among other things, to: at Uniol or at other workplaces, people must be dismissed. This is again either a father or a mother who loses her job. This decision will have consequences for their everyday lives and family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3770	The 2010 budget contains a number of good issues to secure and further develop the community. It's a budget that will give people a better everyday life and greater security for their jobs and for their homes. I think it might be in the right place that we remind each other that today we are debating and dealing with the use of the net sum of almost NOK 1000 billion – almost NOK 1000 billion – which I think those who have heard this debate today have not got along with. In that case it is not the fault of the audience. We live in a world where we've had and still have the greatest financial crisis in human memory, where millions have become unemployed, where millions go to bed hungry and have lost their homes and homes. Also here to countries, people have marked it on the body. We've made it through this better than most, but the financial crisis and the danger are not over. It requires good political solutions, and that is what the majority will vote for today, good red-green solutions for the whole. In a few days' time, the world's leaders in Copenhagen will gather with ambitions to take new steps in the right direction so that the world's children and future children will live their lives on this globe with at least the same quality of life as we do today. Norway is a small country in many contexts, but in the climate issue, this government, headed by Prime Minister Stoltenberg, has taken on a global leadership role, and I am proud of that. Sustainable development means addressing the needs of current generations without undermining the possibilities for future generations. The UN states that the main challenge for such a development is the formidable international poverty, the reduction of biodiversity, man-made climate change and the spread of environmental pollutants. To tackle the environmental and poverty challenges, environmental pressures from economic activity need to be reduced. The government is actively contributing to the establishment of an ambitious international agreement in Copenhagen, covering as many countries and sectors as possible. Then the 2-degree target is very important for the arrangement device. The Agreement should also include measures against deforestation, cooperation on technologies and adaptation to climate change. A substantial part of the costs shall be borne by the developed countries. We have the money. We have the political will. We have the people. We need the technology. I have great confidence in the knowledge environments in a number of sectors in Norway. That's why the big money is spent on broad research for the smart solutions. We've done it before, several times, and we'll do it again. Our climate ambitions are reflected in the budget we are now dealing with. In almost all areas, the challenges associated with climate change are indicative of how next year’s economic activity is organised. We look at how the conversion of car charges in a green direction is continued. We are looking at how our aid is directed in an increasingly environmentally friendly direction. We see it on the massive escalation the government has on both rail and other public transport. We're looking at it at the investment in renewable energy through Enova. We also see it at the government's billion bet on carbon capture and storage, CCS. In this area, we are betting billions, and we are world leaders. These are just a few examples of many. The 2010 budget is a budget for a better global climate. Our government has chosen to act instead of talking. We put action ahead of wordfulness. This distinguishes the red-green government from the civil option. So a few words in the end about the much-mentioned biodiesel thing. Most of the batches in this room agree to impose taxes on biodiesel at some point in time. The major disagreement relates primarily to the time when biofuels are introduced and not to the introduction of the tax itself. This is very clear from the financial position that we are dealing with today. I note, for my part, that the Government is following up the broad climate agreement entered into in this house with all the parties that recognise our common climate challenge in warning of the tightening of the trading order. I also note that, as a result of the increase in the marketing ban, the use of biofuels will go further, not down, as some claim, and not least we have put out a large pot of money for the development of 2nd generation biofuels. Thus, the sum of these measures is more use of environmentally friendly fuels in Norway. Finally, I am very pleased that former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen in an excellent way explained that Prime Minister Stoltenberg did not make false claims or misinformed the Stortinget earlier today about the content of the climate agreement. It is an agreement that is important for us to achieve what is our common goal, all of us who have signed up to the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3802	The president pointed out that the time for the evening meeting was just over, but suggested that the meeting continue until today's map had been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3805	Under the Stoltenberg II government, the number of people waiting for treatment in our hospitals and health institutions has increased by over 60,000. The waiting time is increasing for all patient groups, but it is increasing most for the patient groups that the Stortinget has said should be given priority, namely patients in psychiatry and drugs. It is also these patient groups who experience the most breaches of the treatment guarantee given to them by the Storting, namely that they should have an individual time limit based on their medical condition. But about 20 pst. Thus, one in five of these patients within the priority area does not experience treatment within that period. We first had a health minister who was most concerned with managing a health care service that one had taken over. Then we had a health minister who was running with great visions. Fortunately, now we have a new Minister of Health. It remains to be seen which tracks this health minister will follow, but what has so far been the response to the challenges of waiting lists and waiting times has not been convincing. Answers by the Minister of Health, such as: came out in her posts in Stortinget today, that she wanted to start a survey of who was waiting. It's a pretty unnecessary job. One can go into free hospital selection.no and see where the waiting time is the longest. Then a pretty fast get a relatively good overview of who's waiting. During the Bondevik II government the waiting time and the hospital queues went down dramatically. Our leading health research communities were quite unambiguous in explaining this. Patients were given the opportunity to choose treatment at private hospitals and institutions on behalf of the state. This meant that the waiting time went down, the waiting lists were shorter. The same tool is fully available to this government — if one wants to — but obviously it is an instrument that one does not want to use. One thus believes that it is more important that everyone is in the same line than that the queue is getting smaller. In addition to this being a policy that has the consequence that sick people remain sick longer than is necessary, it also has the consequence that we are in the process of getting a clearly two-part healthcare system. In these four years there has been an increase in the sale of private health insurance of 130 p.m. More and more people pay themselves out of the queue. That means that the activity in the private hospitals is probably as good as it was four years ago. However, the worst thing is that it is the patients that Stortinget has said should be given priority, which is getting a worse and worse offer. More than 4,300 of those today addicted to drugs in Norway are motivated to receive treatment for drug use, but they are in line. In such a situation, we felt that the previous Minister of Health suggested that some of these should be treated with heroin, and then he expressed great compassion for their situation. There was almost no limit to how well he understood how cruel society had treated this patient group. But the limit of his compassion came out clearly in the state budget for this year, and it went at 42 million. kr. Not many of these are going to be treated with 42 million. kr. If there is one area for which this enlargement should decide to have an obliging escalation plan, as one has had within psychiatry, it is in the treatment offer of the patient group that has not even been at the bottom of the table for all years but has never been seated at the table. It's a proposal that the Stortinget will soon have the opportunity to vote on, and I hope it gets a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3822	The most important thing for the Workers' Party and our government is to avoid excessive unemployment. We know from experience that unemployment is the root of a lot of pain. We know that if one is too long without work, it becomes increasingly worse to come back to the labour market. We know that the probability is greater that you can end up having to live by social security, if you're too long without work. We also know that these are the children who have parents who work hard in the labour market, who work most at school. And we know that it can easily form a pattern that we don't like, when unemployment snaps to an too high level. The Prime Minister said early that an important objective was to overcome the crisis with Europe’s lowest unemployment. It may now appear that this objective can be achieved. But we don't have to lie back and relax for that reason, because today we know that unemployment will rise beyond winter, and that requires attention and determination. For business too, this is serious, because they notice that when the market disappears, the competence of the company also disappears when employees either have to be permitted or terminated. For this reason, intra-corporate training is important, and the legislation has now been amended so that firms affected by market failures due to cyclical conditions can receive support for in-house training. This year, the government has put in place several measures to help businesses and employees in a transitional phase when the crisis strikes. Several of these instruments will be continued in 2010. The legislation applies to daily allowances during the period of leave. The number of days of compulsory pay during the period of leave of the holding has been reduced from 10 to 5 days by at least 40 pst. Permitting. The maximum daily allowance period during the period of leave is extended from 30 to 52 weeks. Furthermore, the requirement to reduce working time for entitlement to daily allowance under leave has been reduced from 50 to 40 pst. This provides more flexible permitting arrangements. The government also proposes to extend the target audience for the long-term unemployment guarantee. These measures have a framework of more than DKK 0.5 billion. Given the expected slightly higher unemployment in 2010 than this year, the level of response sites should be increased. The action plan earlier this year decided to increase labour market measures by 6000 places and subsequently by a further 1000 in the context of the revised national budget. In the budget, we are now proposing an increase of 3,000 places, which is 78,200 places in total. Export-oriented industry and the yard industry must have a lot of attention now. Here the feedback is clear, in the sense that there is a great deal of uncertainty. The paradox for the paint industry is that 2009 will be a very good year, while the next year and the following year may appear to be very difficult. There are few new contracts and reduced order reserve. This clearly shows that the crisis is not over. The export industry is very dependent on the state budget being so structured that the confidence in economic governance is good. The feedback we now get from abroad that we have managed the crisis well, and that Norway can be the country that first comes out of the crisis, suggests that we have good control of our economy. We must be more concerned with the return on labour than with the return on oil wealth. In the case of high unemployment, the return is low. High occupational participation provides a high rate of return in terms of improved quality of life for each individual and at the same time provides a tax base and the opportunity to continue to develop well-being. The situation with us is significantly different from that in other countries. When we spend a lot of money, it's actually the money we initially have. This makes it possible to reach our vision that ‘the generation of the day should be able to leave something more valuable to the next generation than what we took over’, as stated in the national budget. The incredible investment in kindergartens in the last period resulted in our being able to legislate on the right to kindergarten, and with continued involvement in the common school and the increase in the research budget, we put the entire education cycle in the right focus. This means that the budget provides for a continuing high and well-qualified workforce, which in turn helps us build the welfare society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3839	The Progress Party has also worked a lot in this budget on how things relate and what the consequences of our priorities will be. This is one of the reasons why the health sector has always had and continues to have such a high priority in the Progress Party. Diseases and injuries that are not treated within a reasonable period of time develop all too often into something larger, somewhat more serious. This increases the cost of health care, more treatment, more medicine, rehabilitation and a high risk of transition to disability. We get into a vicious circle where more and more people are in line, and the social costs are increasing. That's where the government has led us now. 260 000 people are in hospital queues. They're waiting and waiting. They wait an average of 73 days, says the Minister of Health and Health. The last day I received a letter from a friend of mine. This letter was dated 2 October 2009. In that letter it says: You are referred to gastroenterological surgery at Ahus. Reference received on 31 December 2008. We assess your health status to start healthcare by 8 April 2009 at the latest. According to the Patient Rights Act, you are entitled to the necessary health care by this date. You've got time on October 21st, 2009. So his doctor applied for an operation last year, and according to the letter, he was entitled to treatment six months ago. He asks me what this patient's worth, and I ask you the same thing. It belongs to the story that when he came to this hour, which he thought was the time of the operation, the doctor looked at him and said, "This we must operate." We'll try to set you up to one hour in four months. So more than a year's wait! How much does it cost people in hospital queues for over a year? And he's one of 260,000! This costs too much for society, and it costs too much for those involved. For this reason, the Progress Party has invested considerable money in its budget: 1 billion more for the purchase of operations at private clinics and 2 billion more for the strengthening of the hospital economy in general. This could provide treatment for more than 50,000 more than what the Government provides, and will be a very important contribution to the debate on sick pay payments. At the same time, this is very important in the fight against a two-part Health Norway. No more health insurances have ever been sold in Norway. Never has there been a greater difference between poor and rich in terms of health. Still I hear about people standing in the middle of this dilemma – wait or pay for themselves. This is a sad development, which I believe is a misguided policy of the Government, but clearly contradicts the policies of the Progress Party. The Progress Party will ensure good health provision in a timely manner for all, regardless of the individual’s economy. That is why the Progress Party is also strengthening the budget by 300 million. kr to increased capacity in the case of public, private and non-profit rehabilitating sites. We do this because we believe that today's level is too low, which was repeated by most people who met at the hearing. The Russians have also failed. Innumerable encounters with drug users and their relatives show major shortcomings. 4 500 people are waiting for treatment, and too many people who receive an offer are later failing by their municipality. An individual plan that takes account of the individual's situation, which takes care of the entire human being completely to the goal, requires a completely different bet than the government has been willing to. That's why the Advance Party has added 500 million. kr for increased bet on care for the elderly. The escalation plan for mental health is over. A lot was achieved, but you didn't quite get to the goal. The progress party is concerned about the signals coming from the municipalities. Many municipalities are alerting cut. For the Progress Party, it is important that what is built is not now demolished. And we are particularly concerned that good low-threshold services survive the administration of local government budgets. The progress party therefore strengthens the psychiatry by 150 million. kr. Elder care was widely debated in this election campaign. Several thousand sick homes are missing, but these places are to be filled with care, care and good staff, and a pleasant everyday life is to be created for both residents and employees. In order to strengthen care for the elderly, the Advance Party allocates a further DKK 1.5 billion. I note that my counter-debates in the election campaign do not keep their election promises today. It is good to know that what I promised is being promoted today. The budget of the Progress Party would provide many thousands of people with a better everyday life in 2010. The alternative they get is to wait in one queue with many others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3865	The idea has struck me during this debate that it is only one of the world's richest countries, with one of the world's best welfare systems and with full order in the economy that can spend so much time discussing a fee. It seems quite paradoxical in a budget where it is just being filled, so that welfare systems can continue. Not a single department has been cut off in its budgets. The right-hand side enjoys the mention of the Workers' Party as the party for the fee. They applaud that among people. It has never been popular to take responsibility for charging people expenses. What is quite popular, on the other hand, is what we spend this money on: kindergartens, schools, roads, care for the elderly and care for the elderly. Most people want it over tax havens. Also in one of the world's richest countries, where we have among the world's best welfare services, we need to be careful about what we get back from care and services. I want to mention such an area where we are absolutely sure to get back for the effort, which is what we spend on children. Let me mention child protection in particular. It's a single problem. Putting resources as early as possible in a child's life is an economic investment, where the gain is very high. We know, we don't have to figure out or evaluate, we just have to act. Last night, I met Redd Barna. They can document how some children feel, and so can child protection. On several occasions I have heard a doctor and researcher The Church talks about how injured children become sick adults. Children who are subjected to violence, abuse or care failure become more often physically ill, mentally ill, run more, fall out of school and never enter the workplace – a very difficult life awaits the individual. So the social accounts are going to be poor. We need the human resources. The children need and deserve our efforts. That's why this is a single problem. Also in this budget, we spend a lot of money on the state child protection. It is time to put municipal child protection on the political agenda. This is why 400 new posts for local child protection are also leading. We need to follow closely and see if the positions will be put in place. We can't accept that anything else is happening. If this does not happen, I am of the opinion that the Storting must use stronger instruments to achieve this. We've had a successful babysitting lift, and we actually believe that we need a child-restraint lift. In the Workers' Party, we welcome the proposal by the Christian People's Party for full child protection, because we want to participate in that discussion. We believe that everyone is going, not least about the most vulnerable of all – the children who need community action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3880	We have witnessed today that a minister of knowledge came to Stortinget's financial debate and talked about it. 20 seconds of knowledge. It is, to this extent, alarming, but also understandable in view of what the Government delivers in this area. But the Council of State said one important thing when she pointed out that human capital in this country is far greater than total financial and oil capital. It is the processing of this human capital that will enable us to solve the major challenges facing it. These relate to the climate challenges, to the welfare challenges, and to the value creation challenges that we will face in the phase-out of the petroleum economy, while at the same time experiencing the ageing of the population. We will face a situation where we have a deficit in energy, increased public expenditure and initially, due to the loss of oil revenues, reduced public revenue. A commitment to human capital can solve this by providing us with more efficient service production and more efficient value creation. The enormous wealth of oil that we have gives us the opportunity to make a real use of this human capital. I feel that the willingness to strengthen human capital for 2010 is not very strong on the part of the Government. The main objective of the budget is to correct the challenges faced by the competitive industry as a result of the financial crisis. Yes, then it's a big paradox, I would say, that a record research budget has come into the situation that the Research Council's user-driven innovation arena, BIA, for the first time in 2010 is without funding for new projects. It's a paradox. The BIA is the only concrete instrument that makes research funds available for competitive business. The active substance also has the advantage that the use of public research funds generates research resources from industry of at least the same size. Then, the BIA is also an instrument for increasing the proportion of food-funded research, which is a goal to which the entire Storting has joined. More than 150 projects will be scrapped in 2010 because of this broken event. But then we also miss a great deal of human capital in this country when the government accepts a situation where 30 pst. of the country's secondary school students do not complete their education. The government has not been able to correct this negative trend, and an increasing proportion of high school students are dropping out of school. This is serious mainly because it weakens the country's human capital, but also because we know that an excessive proportion of these young people are to be found early in life as expenditure items in other budgets. School policies can and should never be just about helping those who are mentally weak and tired of school. If Norway is to be the world leader in knowledge, innovation and research, we must also take care of the best students. Unfortunately, ideological principles stop the possibility of transforming the Norwegian single school into a single school that takes care of the individual student, weak, medium or strong. The Progress Party proposes 300 million for the Ministry of Knowledge. kr in increased bet on basic education, and SEK 1.7 billion in increased transfers to municipalities, which could have given a real boost to basic education – a promise that would have made us not to see one out of three young people leaving high school. Then I must go to the SV's two losses in this debate. The fact that SV has to lose some battle where SV disagrees with their government partners, we all have to understand, but how SV has managed to lose the battle for eleven months of study funding is a miracle for me. All the parties agreed on this in the election campaign, including the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Nevertheless, there is no trace of this either in Soria Moria or in the budget. The students do not get a single crown in purchasing power development in 2010, despite the clear election promises. When you force Norwegian students to stand behind the 7-Eleven box instead of sitting in the reading halls, it's also a weakening of the country's human capital. Then at the biodiesel tax. I've been so lucky to have been on the Energy and Environment Committee. There all the red-green representatives said that it is important to get young people into education and in jobs about renewable energy. Where are those jobs? Now we have just seen that the first production of renewable energy has been established, and it is bringing down the Government. What jobs and training are these young people going to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3909	If sick leave and disability benefits increase as much in the course of the last year, it alone will eat up much of the growth in the Norwegian economy in the next few years. In addition, we know that higher unemployment and significantly increasing pension expenditure can also reduce the possibility of investing in school, care for the elderly, research, road and rail if development continues as so far. Most of us will hang on to our good welfare arrangements: we want full pay under illness we want good pensions when we step out of work – either because of disability or old age But if we are to be able to maintain good arrangements, we must protect ourselves from over-consumption. That is why the ongoing debate on sick leave is so important. The government has now set up a joint body to look at sick leave, consider any measures and lay the basis for a new agreement on an inclusive working life. And I'm not going to go the sample in the industry. But I think that the sample will come across the close relationship between the labour market and sick leave rather quickly. There is good evidence that job and income insecurity increases the morbidity of the population. Major shifts, such as those currently taking place in the labour and welfare community, are also increasing sick leave. Of course, that doesn't mean we're not going to go into conversion processes. However, we should soon have learned that good migration processes are being carried out in close cooperation with employees’ organisations with security for future work and income — and it may be equally important for employees to receive sufficient training and further training to master new tasks. A rapid look at sick leave statistics also shows that increased sick leave conceals unemployment. For example, the number of sick leave in construction has increased by 18.7 pst. from the second quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2009. Sick leave in the self-employed group has increased by 14,5 pst. during the same period. Can it be, for example, is the fact that sick leave in these groups, which is worst affected by the effects of the financial crisis, is linked to the simple fact that the sickness pay scheme provides full pay, while unemployment benefit does not? The self-employed person does not even have the right to a daily allowance. I understand that someone chooses to get sick in such circumstances – also because we know that life can easily lose its meaning at the moment when work and income with one disappear. In addition, it is beyond doubt that the morbidity increases proportionally with the duration of the disease or the period of unemployment. There are hardly any simple interventions or measures that can prevent anyone from using the sickness pay scheme. We'd like to moralize about people's general attitudes, think it's too easy to get sick or that the doctors are too far off with the search messages. But who are we, who dare sit in the doctor's place and diagnose people who complain about muscle and skeletal disorders or mental disorders. On the other hand, there is solid research evidence to claim that many of those who go home for a long time would actually have been better off at work – and that they would have been there with better follow-up and treatment. We also know that long-term illness most often leads to disability. Only one out of five people who have been sick for over a year returns to work — simply because long-term absences themselves lead to reduced working capacity. Moreover, the demands in the labour market have gradually become so high that we do not have room for people who only provide 70 pst., even for shorter periods. A new and improved IA agreement – and I remind you once again that IA stands for inclusive work – will necessarily have to be about this. At the same time, I am quite sure that we need to spend our money in a slightly different way – keeping people working rather than giving them up to a passive social security life. Then it must also be easier to combine social security and work. We can't afford anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3940	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3943	I want to contribute to the debate on BIO, but I don't want to discuss what's going on about diesel, but about company internal training in relation to conversion. We're barely out of the first phase of the financial crisis, still with the lowest unemployment. This means that in Norway most people have a job to do. But we see that the effects of the financial crisis are going to affect several of our important export industries. To ensure that we maintain jobs and competences in these industries, we need to target actions and work in close dialogue with the industries. Enterprises that are in a situation where global markets are failing will have a demanding period regardless of the measures we are implementing in Norway. Therefore, the Government chooses to continue and strengthen mechanisms that can help businesses maintain their competence. It is chosen to extend the system of intra-corporate training to include temporary market failures resulting from cyclical conditions. In other words, we are talking about the financial crisis. We also increase the time limit for using the measure from 13 weeks up to 26 weeks. These are measures that help maintain and enhance the competence of employees. We also maintain and continue the extensions of the permitting regime. But at the same time, we must continue to work on the efforts that are completely independent of the crisis. The work around the design of the new IA agreement is the support bar. Therefore, there are some groups that will receive special focus in 2010: for disabled people, the Government has started work on designing a strategy for increasing employment for people with disabilities. It's one of the measures. We are going to start work on developing measures to ensure people with developmental disabilities, work, and focus on young people with difficulty entering the labour market, especially those with problems related to drug and mental health. We're going to take measures to reduce the number of people who need disability benefits. The groups mentioned have a high risk of permanent exclusion from the labour market. The measures in the budget today include redundancy payments aimed at getting people back to work. It is the working line to ensure the well-being of the next generation. That means that we need to increase the number of people in the workforce, and since we don't want to cut welfare benefits, we give priority to increasing the pot we're going to divide. We've done it once before. In the 1970s, we doubled the value creation in Norway when women joined the workforce. Now we can expand it one more time, but then we have to include those who are currently out of the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3962	The year 2010 is the first year of the new National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The Government’s national transport plan was referred to before and during the campaign as ‘the time-traffic lift’. After the election campaign, there is a basis for calling both the plan and the follow-up to the budget for the greatest traffic jam of all time. The Government does not comply with the annual framework contained in the 2010–2013 Action Plan proposals. The government’s proposal for national road investment is DKK 5.1 billion. To the extent that the budget represents some kind of uplift in the road sector, it is the drivers who lift in flocks through a special tax on transport. In 2010, the special tax on investment in the national road network, on the other road network and for collective action amounts to a total of DKK 9.8 billion. The drivers contribute almost twice as much as the state. The transport plan prepared by the Government – but not followed by them – does not in any way cover the need for a modern, secure and energy-efficient transport network in Norway. The need is enormously much larger than what the planning framework has. With the government’s priorities, temporaryisation and funding, it will take between 50 and 70 years to renew the transport network in Norway. The Progress Party proposes large investments funded by well-known tools. The Progress Party will modernise roads and railways in 25 years, not in 70 years, and we will finance with state resources, not with extra taxes. There is a strong consensus on the ambitions: roads and railways need to be renewed and improved. It provides greater competitiveness, fewer accidents and more efficient use of energy. But there is an incomprehensible difference in the view of the use of financial instruments. In 2002, the school building interest-reimbursement scheme came after unanimous agreement in the United Kingdom. Following the initiative of the Progress Party, interest compensation for church buildings came in 2005. So an interest-rate compensation scheme has been in use for many years. In the 2010 budget, interest compensation in the transport sector is linked to the administrative reform, where bad roads are to be improved through government loans to county municipalities. Interest compensation is exactly what the Progress Party will use to speed up road and rail construction in Norway. Together with the earmarked return from a separate fund and a loan arrangement to government agencies converted into entities, this provides clear, predictable and long-term funding. In this way, the Progress Party will link the common wealth of its inhabitants to the need for large investments in Norwegian infrastructure. We do this without changing the budgetary system and with funding tools that are already in use. The result is that others talk about raising, but they lack money. The Progress Party has funding that gives rise to road, rail and without transport tax!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3983	In the 2010 government budget, the government has put in some surprises that require a good explanation. I am not thinking here now of the biodiesel tax that has been heavily debated. I would rather focus in my article on another area, which I experience as a very unsocial budget cut. I understand that something needs to be cut to make room for something else, but why in the world did the government have to hit a group as vulnerable as those who depend on what we call'resource-intensive services'? In the municipal bill for 2008, the government boasted that it had put in place a scheme in which the government entered into with funds for this task which would create predictability for the municipalities. In the municipal bill that was presented in the spring, there were no signs that what they praised for the year before would change. But the government budget that has been presented has been chosen to send an extra charge to the municipalities of 300 million. kr. With this unsocial budget cut, my own municipality of residence, Skien, has got an extra bill for the red-greens of 6-7 million. kr. This is a municipality, which, like many others, is in front of us and is struggling to make the ends meet. Does the government really believe that there are more and better resource - demanding services when sending such an unsocial bill to the municipalities? In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has put these funds back in the budget, not just to give the municipalities predictability, but, more importantly, to enable the municipalities to secure a vulnerable group. We're talking here about a lot of traffic damage. We're talking about people with multiple disabilities, who have a strong need to be cared for in a worthy and good way. It will be difficult for the government of Stoltenberg to accuse at least parts of the opposition of going into what they call unsocial tax cuts, when they themselves propose such unsocial budget cuts. It is possible that in this case, as in the biodiesel tax case, you did not fully understand what you proposed. In that case, I would encourage the Government to maintain the scheme that they themselves boasted of having introduced in 2008, and not send this extra bill of 300 million. kr to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e3992	Today is there to discuss important social issues for people out there. But it can quickly end up in a discussion of its own excellence. Some say it's easy to adopt a budget. There are many of us here today who know that it's not that simple. The heaviest task of all is the welfare state's front soldiers who have. The approximately 17 000 Nav staff will realize our political ambitions – to bridge the labour market and make sure that the best of themselves is achieved. The Nav employees deserve our total political support in the demanding tasks that await them, rather than being able to quickly end up in a political game. Getting good interaction between those who are at the forefront of society, who may be struggling with intoxication and mental problems, is demanding. Therefore, there is reason to give praise to Nav who builds up competence to meet those people with whom it may be difficult to interact. We are deeply concerned about the increase in long-term unemployment. We're worried about all the kids who are now losing their jobs. Just to realize people's possibilities, we're filling the Nav toolbox. The core of the Nav reform is the introduction of redundancy payments, job evaluation and increased commitment to the qualification programme. Too many people have experienced the past of being a caste, of being in conflict with the public auxiliaries. That's why it's so important that we meet these people with liberality, with respect and generosity, because we know that everyone is different and has different opportunities to succeed in their own lives. The Progress Party is proposing cutbacks in the expenses of the people. I cannot see what is realistic in this tightening up proposal. I actually think they were more honest before, when they cooperated with the other bourgeois parties, about, among other things. cut the day-to-day allowance of the unemployed. It is not our political job to weaken the incomes of those who have the least from before. In the demanding year that awaits us, we have to follow up on all Nav employees who are going to realize people's opportunities. We have to be out there where people are to see how the reform turns out for those who need us the most. I want to boast to the Christian People's Party and the Left of a commitment to the issue of poverty. It must be a relief to see that you are not in a civil majority when there are so many others you can play with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4007	‘The voters have to look at what the individual party stands for,’ said a local representative of the Right Party to one of our locals in Oppland this week, as a comment on the biodiesel issue. Yes, it's very wise for the voters to look at what the games actually stand for. If you're going to break up, the 2010 budget is a good opportunity. After further inspection, one can find out that, for example: the party Right will cut almost NOK 2 billion for agriculture for 2010. The advance party is no less snout and cuts about 6 billion kroner to agriculture, although it was strongly said in the election campaign of their own local representative that agricultural cuts would not take place until transitional arrangements were in place. I ask, where have the transitional arrangements been? Yes, even in replacement and prevention of predator damage, it was cut. Not enough with that, the Progress Party cuts in cash, in sick pay, in aid, in the cultural sector, etc., etc. – no wonder that there is money left to spend on other good purposes that sell better in the media. No parties on Stortinget have a majority alone. There are therefore no parties that would have been able to implement all their suggestions on the point and the point. Everyone will have to give and negotiate. It's also true for parties that have come together in government. We win things, and we lose things. We're in a hard time. The financial crisis is still not over, although Norway has come out of it in a reasonably moderate way compared to other countries. It requires a budget for 2010 that is appropriate forward-looking. The government's draft budget is exactly that. I am concerned that we must have a strong searchlight for future value creation. This means, among other things: that we need a good budget to build future knowledge. The teacher is a key to good learning and knowledge. That is why I am pleased that we are now going to start a new teacher education, that a permanent system for continuing training of teachers should be put in place, and that it is being taken into account in the absence of secondary school through a wide range of measures. It's important to look at what each party stands for, but it's also important to look at what you can do in collaboration with others. I am pleased that the centre party is in a red-green government, and in the debate here today it points to many important areas that are being strengthened, not least in the field of transport. I am not willing to gamble with a future for Norway with cuts in such areas as: The right hand side and the progress side add up. I have looked at what the individual party stands for – there should also be more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4024	Many in South Africa are asking, and newspapers have also written about it: ‘What’s in it for me?’ – as they say ‘over there’ and in parts of West Agder. What in the budget is good for me here in the South, they ask. Some people think we haven't got what we're going to have, especially the Right. Right in West Agder said in the election campaign that there was an urgent need for a new four-field road from Kristiansand to Search and on to Mandal. But it was not so acute that it is visible in the Right Budget for 2010. So southern countries: no new roads to you from the Right, it looks like. The big political lines, the horrors of media and individual matters, are all about the same thing now as before the elections. The dividing lines don't go away, because it focuses on singles, whether it's biodiesel or mulla crickets. Before the elections, the divisions were clear. The Progress Party would create a different country, although Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and the Right would have tax havens and roads. They did not agree on common policies then, and they are not now. The voters wanted to work for all, safe care for the elderly, good school and community over tax havens. The government's permanent management of the financial crisis includes, inter alia: As a result, almost 200 people were exempt from leave in Farsund. In Kristiansand, more than 500 of Per and Kari are now receiving social assistance, and it released $45 million. kr for other tasks in the municipality. For the Workers' Party, work is for all value creators. It's good for the individual, their families, and it's good for the big community. Prevention and early response to vulnerable children and young people are also an important field of action. It will give the children good days when they are children, and it will give them a better life as adults. So the budget is in it for us. It is simply tailor-made for West Agder, Norway's leading export group, with a world-class industry, the highest share of unskilled workers and a very gender-based labour market. And the budget addresses the major challenges we face in the coming years – in West Agder, but also in the rest of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4037	The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Government does not seem to take sufficiently into account that parts of the international competitive economy are still and will be affected in the future by the financial crisis. The Christian People's Party believes that to improve the framework for these companies, action must be taken in the tax system, and proposes, among other things. an increase in depreciation rates for machinery and equipment as a targeted measure towards these enterprises. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has on a few occasions asked for concrete measures for the maritime industries, especially for the shipbuilding and supply industries, without getting answers to the questions. We are deeply concerned about this important industry. 2010 and in particular 2011 may be very difficult years if new orders are not received. Several thousand jobs may disappear, and important competences may be lost. The Norwegian maritime cluster risks being permanently weakened as a result of the crisis, and the Christian People's Party believes that the Government must be willing to look at a wide range of measures. An opportunity to meet this demanding situation may be the establishment of a research, development and innovation programme for the development of maritime renewable energy production aimed at the yard industry, which can contribute to the renewable energy generation of ships and installations. In particular, wind turbines can be built on Norwegian shipyards. This could ensure the development of key eco-innovations, while providing the sites with a highly needed activity. Norway already has world-leading research environments that can contribute to such a programme, and the yards, for their part, have top competence in offshore production. The Norwegian maritime research environment with Marinek and NTNU at the head is already leading the world on its fields. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway has very good conditions for developing offshore renewable energy solutions and that the yard industry could be an important part of the response to this major challenge. Nevertheless, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade was reprehensible in his reply to the letter of the Christian People's Party to establish just such a renewable energy development programme aimed at industry. I take this as a further confirmation that the Government does not seize the opportunities it has to strengthen industry and pursue offensive policies that will also benefit the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4046	For the Workers' Party, the regulation of financial markets is as natural and necessary as the conduct of a responsible economic policy. On the day of today a year ago, Kåre Willoch also struck a blow for political governance at a seminar on the financial crisis at Højres Hus. Like many others, he thought the recession in the world economy could have been avoided by more targeted credit control. In the wake of the financial crisis, we have witnessed some interesting ideological retreats. The Progress Party has programmed that all regulation should be superfluous in a free economy. They have also demonstrated a reluctance to control in practice, including: with proposals for cut-offs in the appropriations for the credit supervision. In retrospect, the Progress Party has distanced itself from those who have implemented such a policy. According to the representative Sandberg, the problems of the United States are the result of President Bush leading a socialist policy. It is not by chance that Norway is doing well in the financial crisis. It is not natural for countries with large natural resources to manage wealth to benefit the entire population. The organisation of the oil fund and the management of the financial crisis by the Government reap international recognition. Today, we are discussing the government’s state budget – and the alternatives. The arrangements of the Progress Party are different. Adding up that the country does not get a single new disability pensioner in 2010 is unrealistic. The same is true of the Party's cut of more than DKK 3 billion on integration, which is justified on the grounds that people will turn to the border if the budget of the Progress Party is adopted. The lot's cut in unemployment benefit and sick pay are unsocial. In addition, they rely on unemployed people getting a job offer and sick people getting up from sick beds on Monday 2 January. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for cyclists in the Advance Party. For everyone who's ever been on a bike, knows that the one who treads heavily on downhill, gets unstuck, and the one who starts braking in the uphill, doesn't get over the knee. This year, with economic growth, the Progress Party has proposed to use more than everyone else, while now, as times require effort, they make a point of spending less. There are many reasons to rejoice that the Progress Party is still in opposition. One of them is the party's reluctance to control the financial markets, one of their alternative – very alternative – proposals for a government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4061	First, I would like to point out to the debate we had earlier on about it by voice-checking, that I will never call Ingarill Olsen a cow, no matter what she shall do during the voting tonight! So to some of the other things I've noticed during the debate. So SV is talking about long-lasting fees. A representative from the Workers' Party told the Workers' Party to control the market if necessary. My «companion» Ingalill Olsen boasted even the number of kindergartens that had been built in recent years. All these statements are based on a common principle: it is the central management principle, or central thinking, if you like. Let me give you a little heartache: there are not kindergartens missing in most small municipalities, there are jobs that can be filled with people who can make children, who can fill up the kindergartens we have. The policy of the red-greens is to collect as much of the income as possible, then to spread it out for more or less good purposes. Afterwards, they can travel around with hand orders and great words and preach: What would you do without us? SV's vision for the Kingdom seems to be that we all work in public, live in blocks and take the trick to work. Sometimes you can wonder if SV was born in the wrong country. In recent years, the Labour Party has shown that they believe that the public should be overshadowed. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to protect the public sector from any comparison with, or possible impact of, private actors. In the opinion of the Right, good policies are created from below. It is a good principle to facilitate the development of self-solutions by local communities, businesses and the public sector. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to embrace the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur, the idealist, the volunteer and the initiative-rich. In addition, infrastructure needs to be built in line with our diverse country. I record that the Government will give the impression that they can decide what it should be. It's probably not like that. The good forces that create habitable societies, profitable and sustainable business, good service providers and an active voluntary sector, only need enough resources and space to exploit them, they work by themselves. Private initiative and creativity cannot be adopted; it can only be stimulated. A good stimulus is e.g. that business retains more of what they create. And you can actually imagine that they're creating even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4083	The President has doubts as to whether she should appeal to the representative's first sentence as an unparliamentary, but leaves it to Tove Karoline Knutsen to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4086	I do not think I will comment on the previous representative's statement further! On the other hand, I would say this: about a year ago, most of us could see dark clouds drawing up around us, and it was a global phenomenon. We gradually saw that large financial institutions in the United States and Europe were faltering and going on. When I think about it today, I remember getting almost the same feeling as when the Berlin Wall fell: the impossible turned out to be possible. The end of the Berlin Wall was fantastic. Lehman Brothers' case was terrible, not least because it hit ordinary people so hard. Many also said that we finally got to demonstrate what some of us knew: Turbocapitalism does not have survival power. Here, too, we were hit by a financial crisis. We have an economy that is very well-informed and depending on what happens internationally. That's why it was so important that the red-green government acted when the international financial crisis also struck our country. The most important thing was to respond with targeted measures to the financial market and by turning government economic policy into a more expansive direction. Incentives were granted to help vulnerable industries, such as SMEs. construction. It was this policy that got the Right Party and the Advance Party to come with their later known rehearsal exercise: the one that it is too little and too late. But it was the same policy that got the New York Times to write "Look to Norway," where they gave the red-green government the management of the financial crisis the top character. It is this policy that has left us with low unemployment in Norway and that economic activity may seem to be on the way. At the same time, we must not fool ourselves into believing that everything is at the old. The shipbuilding industry, the fishing industry and other export industries are struggling and will face more difficult times. Unemployment will increase in some sectors. For this reason, the Government has submitted a budget for 2010 which is weakly expansive. This means, among other things: that we will use 44 billion of the estimated real return on State pension fund abroad. It's going to strengthen our common well-being. On my side of the country you can see that more money has come for racial protection, roads, ports and fairways, for important cultural measures and for health. With the presentation of the major health interaction reform, the Government has taken a major and overall approach to strengthening cooperation between the different levels of health care and to build and develop good health services close to where people live. There's nothing that comes of itself. When Norway gets top scores at most international measurements across countries it is good to live in, it also has to do with politics. That means that we have to keep focusing on both what we've got and what we haven't done. We have promised that 'all will join'. It commits us in the road choices we're going to make in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4101	Government members are allowed to be brilliantly satisfied when they have agreed on the content of a government budget — yes, it is even natural in the rush of enthusiasm to use the highest superlatives of what one delivers. When we know something about the debates that must have taken place in the process of the 2010 state budget, we really understand that there was a need for at least a linguistic celebration. The receipt of the budget outside the groups of individual items must therefore have been discouraging. It must be brutal when the hearings reflect that the entire professional community in different service areas tells that the government is not being deleted – yes, they have simply not understood the reality to which the practitioners must relate. I am recording correctly that government members are still really trying to keep up the glow, but I also register that someone is more nuanced. The municipal minister tried yesterday to tell them that the municipalities had to peace the schools and find other cut areas, but I seemed to hear a doubt in the same way as it was said. The central federation of the municipalities, which has competent and factual numbrators, has already told us that the free incomes are immediately eaten up, and so on, of increased costs and new tasks. It does not seem to be deleted as if the Minister of Knowledge Halvorsen is so very pleased with the framework of the Minister of Finance Halvorsen supplied her. Others even admit that they are not satisfied. The Higher Education and Research Councils granted it. Understandable! All educational institutions, employee organisations and student organisations report that under-coverage has serious consequences. They say that the government's great effort at education cannot be realised. That gives cause for concern. It is time for the Government through its party traps on the Storting to use the budgetary hearings to adjust the understanding of reality. We can't afford to gamble with the knowledge of our children. In its alternative budget, the right has spent an extra 1 billion on education — on teachers, on helping the children in primary school and on strengthening higher education. If it is a problem to pool support internally in the Government, I can recommend to the Councils to use our alternative proposals. It ensures education and I can promise solid support from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4112	The budget for 2010 is currently under consideration. The budget caters for all large areas of growth. It's solid. The budget implies a continued offensive policy. Successful economic policies are a basis for good life and good years of life for the many. Good economic policy over several years enables many to grow even more. Good life and security in everyday life depend on the fact that the neighbor is also doing well. The red-green government provides security for work. We have a goal of having the lowest unemployment rate in Europe and are able to do this because we have the courage to give priority. The vision and power of the majority government were necessary to meet the financial crisis. The measures have acted as planned to stabilise national financial markets and employment related to domestic markets. But for the export industry, the financial crisis is a reality today and tomorrow. Our policy has been responsible. We used less in the good years. Now we have room for action and use this this year and next year. The red-green government provides security for housing and daily life. Despite good oil revenues, economic policy is serious, so that interest rates are kept down. It ensures everyday life for families with loans and increases turnover in industry and services industries. Security in everyday life is investing in the future. Then the young families get bigger, and we need more hands in every sector in the years to come. The red-green government invests in health safety. We create more health services and more care services than ever. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and we spend the most money on health. The provision of emergency services is particularly good. A large majority of patients and relatives are very satisfied with both treatment and service. But we also know that we need to get better. This applies in particular to groups in need of assistance over time by many service providers. An economic policy that both creates and distributes values gives many in society good lives and good years of life. Our main political challenge is the individual who loses the good years of life. This is primarily related to social differences. The draft budget we are discussing today shows the strength we have in difficult times when we have been wise with the money in good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4131	In today's debate, we have heard repeatedly from all parties that there is a need to secure and establish jobs, to facilitate industrial and industrial development and to take environmental considerations into account for the future. In Norway, we are in the lucky situation that we can really do something about all of this. Norwegian forestry is world-class in terms of sustainability. Forests, the forest industry and the environment are in agreement on the principles of environmentally sound management. Biomass in Norwegian forests is increasing sharply. Of the annual growth, only approx. one third harvested for sale. Norwegian forestry therefore represents a significant potential for value creation in districts and provides a unique raw material for processing. Thus, by facilitating new industrial applications of this environmentally friendly raw material, we can both create district development and establish jobs in industry. Forestry industry has two pillars: wood and wood processing. The production, sale and processing of biomass for energy purposes can be the third pillar. Therefore, the whole forest industry wishes to welcome the second generation biodiesel investment. It would be thought that the authorities were enthusiastic about this development. That is why disappointment is all the more so today. The debate shows that what could become an industrial and environmental adventure from reality is now falling before you get started. The wonder is great when, earlier in the debate, we hear the Prime Minister justifying the government's tax proposal that the polluter should pay. The logic should, of course, imply that those who pollute less by using biodiesel should also pay less. Furthermore, the Prime Minister claimed that the biodiesel levy is a contribution to the better functioning of the economy. The right considers that it is not a positive contribution to the social economy that forward-looking industrial development is hindered, that the potential for value creation in districts is slowed down and that positive environmental measures are suffocated by taxes. It seems that the government doesn't understand that the signals it's sending out are completely destructive. Who will now take the opportunity of further investments in the biofuels sector? The result of the government's policy is that Uniol in Fredrikstad has permitted all its employees, and that Norwegian Forest's biodiesel business at Follum may have to throw in the towel if the fee becomes a reality. There is not only a long way between words and action in the government's climate policy; there is also a long way between the slogan "The whole people at work" and the government's fury of green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4154	There is no greater freedom than the sense of security, said Tage Erlander. And it's in the community that we create security and freedom. For all those students who do not deal with school everyday life, it gives more security when the government takes the drop-out in high school seriously and grants 53 million. kr against non-response. Everyone goes to school, and when more people finish, we also give more young people real freedom of choice in life. And because we know that more and better teachers in school are so important, the municipal economy is strengthened by $8 billion. The budget shall secure jobs because work for all is important for individuals and because it contributes to the financing of the welfare state. The financial crisis has once again shown us how important it is that we have a safety net for those who have to face unemployment and uncertainty. But the Progress Party is cutting its alternative government budget $8 billion for the expenses of the people. After today's exodus, which unfortunately doesn't make much sense, at least not to me, I can't understand anything but that it must mean cut in cash, sick pay and disability benefits. It is a brutal signal that in the progressive party society you are truly your own success smith. For all those who live by agriculture, it's probably safe to know that we have a government that won't cancel the agricultural agreement overnight. I hear the Progress Party argue that they will release the farmers, but the reality is enough that they will not have any farmers at all. And with a cut of $6 billion in agriculture, it probably won't be far from the truth. The red-green budget is a budget for more security because it is a budget for combating and preventing crime. The police are strengthened by SEK 1.3 billion, and next year the admission to the Police College is increased to record 720 students. It's been a double since the last year of Bondevik II government. We've done this because we know we can't give people a lightning course and a sheriff's star and say good luck at work as a cop; it takes time to train professionals. When the opposition calls for a manning crisis in the police, they have little credibility. It is the red-green government that has carried out the police vows of the times. The right-hand side has made freedom of choice its honor. They say freedom of choice for individuals, but the result of their policies is often freedom for individuals, namely for those who can afford to pay for themselves. And with proposals for billions in tax cuts, those who have a lot will get more. At the same time, important welfare schemes and safety networks have been cut. It creates less security for most people. I am delighted to vote in favour of the Government's draft budget, a budget where no departments are cut, a budget that has many winners. It's because we spend the big money on the big tasks, and through a strong community, we provide security and freedom for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4174	We've heard this today, and we've heard it before, that the opposition is skeptical about the government's industrial policy. It continues to operate with the dissatisfaction strategy it has been pursuing for several years now. I just want to say that Norway is a good and good country to do business in. The government’s industrial policy in the last four years has produced good results. We've had stronger growth in recent years than that, for example. is the EU average, showing that Norwegian companies are also competitive on a global market. The statistics show at least that in the previous period more jobs were created than in a few four-year period since the 1950s. The World Bank has ranked Norway as the tenth best country to operate in a ranking of 183 countries. It says a lot. We facilitate innovation and research. The state budget for 2010 is the largest ever in research. Research appropriations have increased much more strongly from 2005 to 2010 than they did in 2001–2005. Norwegian industry has a high level of competence in environmental technologies. By investing in environmental technologies, we will strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and promote industrial development, which will help Norway to achieve its environmental objectives in the next round. If we are to have a forward-looking business and residence in this country, it is also important that we facilitate the development of infrastructure. It's also this government has been committed to doing. The government has given priority to the transport sector. The 2010 red-green government's proposal for the state budget represents a new major transport promise. The 2010 budget proposal amounts to DKK 27 billion, which is a growth of DKK 4.7 billion – approx. 21 p.m., compared to the 2009 budget. No one has to say that it's not a big boost. The effort on the road, track, ports and fairways is at an historically high level. The budget continues the strong escalation of trade started by this government in 2005. We have increased the appropriations, among others: to the road and track by over 9 billion kroner since 2005. With the increase in the 2010 budget, the escalation to the average NTP level is well on track. So, finally, the debate on sick pay. I think it is important to remember that what the Government and the Prime Minister have initiated, is not a sick pay debate, but a sick absence debate. There's a significant difference between these two things. It's important to focus on this, because we all want to reduce sick leave. However, the right to full pay under sickness shall not be affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4189	This budget house has much to do with taxes, climate and green jobs. Unfortunately, much of what the Government proposes in the budget seems to be going in the wrong direction for these areas. Tax at all workplaces should be lower in Norway. Not least, it is important to produce new nutrients. Instead, we see a government that reduces the wages of the new industries with new taxes and taxes. We see a good example of that with the new biodiesel tax. The red-green parties throughout the election campaign talk about green jobs and pure renewable energy. Here should be a real bet. In Sogn and Fjordane, green workplaces were the very tabesaka of the Center Party. Now, in my view, we are witnessing the greatest stomach of all time when it concerns both climate policy and green jobs. Uniol must probably put it down. Norwegian Forests spend large amounts of money, and high uncertainty about future tax regimes can stop many important investments. We see another good example of bad business policy when the government continues an unfair product charge on juice, which happens to be an important district enterprise like Lerum in Sogndal. Lerum is a market leader in real juice in Norway and gets a lot of his raw material from Sogn. A 60-million-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr under the red-green governments create great challenges for this great company. It does so, among other things. It is difficult for them to defend paying extra for local commodities, which they do, among other things. to maintain an important agricultural industry in the region. Lerum's juice is based on real fruit, which is a healthy product compared to many of the artificial products that Lerum competes with. In a nutrition issue, there is no doubt that Lerum’s product is far healthier and should not have had this fee. Right will halve the levy on juice because it frames unfairly, and it will have a positive effect on an important company in District Norway. It's been a strange experience to hear a lot of red-green politicians turn the issue of wealth taxes into a question about where you live in Oslo. They would rather have taken a trip into the real world and visited companies like Lerum, Helle Knivfabrik, Saga Boats or many of the great travel businesses that are around the country. They would then be given a clear answer as to what taxes on wealth, property tax and inheritance tax means for business and for the employees in this country. The right makes a number of proposals that lead to simplifications for small and medium-sized enterprises. It will reduce business costs and help to make business competitive. It provides the basis for new jobs and secures existing jobs. On the right, the election promises when it comes to commerce, education, property taxes and inheritance taxes, and the Right’s sound economic policy improves the conditions for business and thus secures long-term well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4215	After listening to the debate today, I am left with many impressions. I have heard that the government does not spend enough money on most things. I have heard that the government parties are greedy who do not give tax credits – nor do they give to those who already have a lot. I have heard that the government parties are irresponsible who spend too much money. Despite many good contributions from the opposition, the debate has sometimes been imaginative and long – or maybe I should correct myself and say that the opposition has been imaginative in repeating one narrow theme. Despite this, I must say that we live in a good country. We are several times named for the world's best country to live in. Maybe we should make that visible in a couple of ways. I think the whole of this budget is very good. The centre party is very satisfied with the bet on transportation. It is invested in roads, ports, railways and fairways, airports and broadband. This effort is historic and benefits the whole country. It benefits business. It makes the journey to work and school place safer and gives new optimism around. I also believe that the commitment to local economy is very good. It provides good welfare solutions in the countryside and the city – 41 billion kroner in total since we took over red-green, and a new 8 billion kroner next year. The central party believes that the wit is evenly distributed in this country. Therefore, we are pleased that several tasks have been transferred to the county municipalities. I'm sure the tasks will be solved in a good way, whether these are the new county roads, or it's facilitating economic development, or it's the new regional research funds we're talking about. Tasks should be solved as closely as possible where people live and where values are created. Therefore, I think it is disappointing that the Right proposes to cut funds for economic development and regional development to the county councils. The Central Party believes it is a good thing that we have a settlement throughout the country. Therefore, it is important to provide all good public services. It is a little surprising when the Right then proposes cut in the government's purchase of unprofitable postal services. Who's gonna lose the Saturday post first? I also believe that it is a very unfortunate signal when the Progress Party proposes a rematch on the Defence Command on Reitan outside Bodø. You mean you can't deal with having the defense men and women in this region, or what's the justification? I am very pleased that I belong to a party that wants to use the whole country, and that we are working well with the Workers' Party and SV about it. We ensure good welfare solutions for everyone. We invest for the future in research and infrastructure. I am happy to give my vote to an overall budget that will take care of this in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4234	On 17 January 2008, the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and Right Climate Agreement submitted. The undersigned himself was involved in these negotiations. Biofuels were the only point of the settlement agreement that had not been negotiated that day, due to the fact that a consultation of the proposal would take place, on 2 pst. annual volume of fuel traded, rising to 5 pst. in 2009. The parties also agreed that a further escalation should be considered, provided that sustainable production is achieved. A few months out in 2008 the food crisis came to an end. The Christian People's Party then took part in focusing on the ethical challenges of removing food from production to produce biofuels. On 9 September 2008, the Christian People's Party, as one of the parties to the climate agreement, received a letter from the Minister for the Environment informing us of the results of the hearing and invited us to further dialogue on progress in the field of biofuels. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left gave a response in the form of a letter dated 23 October 2008. On 3 December 2008, the Parties to the Climate Change Agreement met with the Minister for the Environment to conclude the negotiations on the Climate Change Agreement on biofuels. It is the Christian People's Party's clear view of the meeting on 3 December that the parties to the climate agreement agreed that the escalation of the sales ban, to 5 p.m., would be postponed until 1 July 2010, in particular. based on input from oil companies in relation to what was technically possible and in order to establish a reporting system with sustainability criteria. Tuesday this week, at the national meeting of the Trade Union, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg unilaterally broke this agreement. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg then tried to manufacture a sales order of 3.5 p.m. in 2010 as a step forward in relation to the current policy, and also as a victory for SV. The Christian People's Party sees this rather as a lowering of the level of ambition and a breach of climate reconciliation. It was with amazement that I listened to the Prime Minister's reply change earlier in this debate. Let me quote the Prime Minister: ‘There has been a round in which this has been adjusted in 2010, but also there was no obligation to implement it.’ If the Prime Minister is such as to understand that the Government invites the parliamentary leaders to talks about further progress and further investment in biofuels, where an exact date is set for tightening the sales order without obliging the Government to implement anything, yes, then it says the most about the government Stoltenberg II as a settlement partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4250	Yesterday I came from the Caribbean after a meeting in the Socialist International, with strong impressions from different debates on climate, disarmament and poverty. With participants from all over the world, and the majority from poor countries, the debate becomes different. The stand is different. Among many posts, one made a very strong impression. Jamaica's former, first female, prime minister, now opposition leader, Portia Simpson, made speeches about the fight against poverty and for a fair world, about how to accept injustice, wherever, will finally affect us all. Point by point she documented how only 1 pst. of the world’s annual use of weapons, can actually monge – and it’s significant. Migration was the main theme for women from poor countries. No one had a burning desire to come to the West or Norway. No, the theme was forced because of poverty, conflicts, persecution, environmental damage and natural disasters, the theme was about with a heavy heart to leave the children with neighbors, while Mother went to find a basis for their lives, most often in her own country or region, someone anymore – not everyone came back. So, after a week and a half without close contact with the Norwegian political debate, I eagerly grasped the newspapers – and talked about going down! For a week and a half, the opposition had ridden with indignation and the media had buried themselves in a deep analysis of the question of a fee! I'm not going to talk about biodiesel, but quote a comment from the Progress Party about anything else: ‘The immigration and integration area is the major budget winner of the government budget for 2010.’» Yeah, great! Some of the world's 20 million refugees come here. They shall have a decent treatment in accordance with international driving rules. It does not want the Progress Party and the hard-handed cutters – DKK 3.5 billion in inclusion, half a billion in the apparatus performing the services – in line with the Progress Party programme, which states that ‘Norway’s reception of people from outside the Western cultural circle is severely restricted. This includes refugees, asylum seekers and those granted residence for humanitarian reasons’. The Progress Party does not believe that ‘the world’s best country to live in’ should take its share of the responsibility for people in need. Instead, people are to be helped where they live, says the Progress Party, but they don't want it, nor do they cut aid and aid administration. Fortunately, there is a gap between the Advance Party and all the other parties in this area. Then I think the other opposition parties should rather spend time discussing such differences than creating a show off of a fee vote that late at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4272	The Progress Party wants a comprehensive business life, which can as far as possible be on its own feet and generate revenue without excessive government governance or economic transfers. These will be good and lasting jobs that both the districts and cities need. Travel life is the fourth largest industry in Norway, which I don't think everyone knows or takes enough account of. It transfers too many dollars, has a lot of jobs, of which a lot are women's jobs. This is important as many districts are struggling to provide precisely women's jobs. The promotion party wants to contribute to the growth of travel and neighbouring industries by spending more money on the marketing of Norway as an exciting place to visit. No party is near to bet so much on travel life. In addition to marketing, the Progress Party has a policy with a number of regulatory changes. The same applies to a lower level of taxation. The party also wants to improve the rules on depreciation and to eliminate taxes on wealth and property taxes, etc. The Progress Party also wants to soften a number of legislation on practical experiences and tasks. This may, for example: be snowmobile. How this works today, many with this interest travel to Sweden or Finland, live at hotels etc. and put a lot of money there. This is money that could benefit Norway, generate income and secure existing and created new jobs. The same applies to Norway’s predatory policy, which, with its conservation of predators, destroys those in the tourism industry who can offer package tours where hunting and hunting experiences are involved. That's why the interest has been greatly reduced, since the predators are here and you're afraid of yourself and not least of your dog. Otherwise, many people in tourism and tourism are concerned with transportation. They want good roads as well as a railway that works, and that trains come in the right time. In terms of our roads, very many of these are of a very poor standard. It's the highway to e.g. Trysil in Hedmark, used by e.g. many from Denmark, a good example of this. Surveys show that some of these tourists do not come back precisely because of road standards. This, of course, gives bad PR instead of the opposite, where even more would come. Another thing the Progress Party believes is important for the tourism industry is its ability to participate in protecting areas. There are areas that, with a reasonable use, can provide great opportunities for the travel industry, without destroying the purpose of protection. Otherwise, Norway’s alcohol policy is fairly well known. The Progress Party also wants the industry, together with the authorities, to find solutions that contribute to a sensible solution for the benefit of everyone. With these elements in our budget and programme, there is no doubt that the Progress Party is the best party for the tourism industry as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4293	There are many illogical flaws in the government party's argument in the case of biodiesel. It has been claimed by government teams that biodiesel is not environmentally friendly and is reversing food production. If this were the case, it would be directly immoral to raise the turnover charge from 2,5 pst. up to 3.5 pst. or 5 pst. It has been claimed that if we do not introduce an increase in fees now, we will lose astronomical sums in fees that would otherwise go to the railways, schools, municipalities, poor people, etc. However, the government itself has for the longest time linked itself firmly to the level of taxation for 2004. This means that less tax revenue is compensated for by increased income on other items, as many have suggested. So it would be exactly the same amount of money for rail, school, poor and hungry. Then we have SV trying to present ourselves as some naive, credulous, who didn't know what they were doing. If there is someone who has really controlled this case, and not least could do something about it from day one, it is SV. It was the Minister of Finance of the SV who made proposals for an increase in the levy. It was SV's Environment Minister who opened Uniol and stated that this was the future, while he knew that there was an untapped tax bomb in the budget. It was SV's Environment Minister who, both at the opening of the Uniol and in his own budget, made it quite clear that there would be a requirement of 5 pst. biodiesel blending during 2010. So it's amazing that the Prime Minister torturing this and saying no, we just want 3.5 pst. interference during 2010, where SV presents it as a saying that the Government is breaking its own promises, its own budgetary documents and the Storting climate settlement – a bit of a win. If it had been political will, it would have been quite unproblematic for the government to come to us in the opposition and say, "I'm sorry, this was the wrong time to promote this proposal, but can you be with us in a reasonable timetable, so that we can both take care of the fact that biodiesel has to be taxed in the long term, and so that we secure the jobs in Uniol, follow up the climate agreement and have a targeted investment in 2nd generation biofuels. Of course we would have been involved. But the government chooses an arrogance that we must return to before parliamentarianism in order to find the right. The result is that it's just losers. Norwegian policy is losing face, Uniol employees are losing jobs, and the important shift towards a more environment-friendly and climate-friendly society, the low-carbon society, is at best being put on hold. It is incomprehensible and completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4306	I drew myself to mention a policy area that has been mentioned earlier in the debate, but which, in my view, deserves a little more attention, and which is important to a great many. This concerns agriculture. Through the last years of the treatment of the agricultural agreement, the Progress Party, and in part the Right, has also taken decisions which, if they had been given a majority, would have resulted in Norwegian agriculture being reduced. I believe that from the government shift in 2005, we have seen a progressively more positive development both in agriculture and in forestry. There has been a greater desire for investment and optimism. The Government statement now states that a new big business message on agriculture will be drawn up. It's important. It has been 10 years since the last such notification was made. Many framework conditions have changed. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is now preparing the work on a Storing Communication to focus on the whole value chain — from land to table — to say so. This will result in an overall debate on agricultural policy, which is important for us who are concerned with agricultural policy and social development, and of course also for primary producers and consumers. Another important measure is the Minister of Agriculture’s initiative for a public investigation into chain-related activities in the daily food industry. I really look forward to getting insight into the complicated relationships between the chains and between the chains and the supplier industry. The work now under way in the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Renewal and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, will provide the public with an insight into the conditions of power and opportunities to develop policies in the area of benefit to consumers and primary producers. When I mention these processes, it is to show that the Government is working constructively with this policy area and has an offensive approach to Norwegian agricultural policy, in contrast to the blackness of the opposition. Agriculture – agriculture and forestry – is essential for the settlement of our country, for supplies to the food industry and the forest industry, completely necessary businesses to make it possible to have an active life in Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4321	During this debate, in particular from the government parties and in particular from the Prime Minister, it has been repeated that Norway has managed exceptionally well through the financial crisis and the troubled economic times we have had in the last year, due to the Norwegian model of a strong public sector. This has been explained in a way with a background in the government's own policy. But what is the reason why we in Norway can combine a strong public sector with such a high level of material wealth as we have? Well, that's precisely because we actually have outsourced, to use such an expression, the production of large parts of private consumption, many of the material goods on which we base wealth, industrial production. It happens in other countries, in other parts of the world, not least in China and other Asian countries. They're the producers of these goods. They do not have a correspondingly high share of the public sector, but they have large industrial output. They're the ones who are now paying the price of the economic decline we've seen worldwide. This simple point illustrates that it had been timely with a much greater humility also from the Government and the Prime Minister in the face of the troubled economic times we are now going through. It has otherwise been underlined earlier today that we should have acquired more knowledge of biology to understand the basic processes in politics as well. For me, one of the most basic biological principles we should have learned from is that we should reap what we sow. In view of that, it is a great paradox that a government with such great opportunities, so large an economic space and such an expansive budget then makes the degrees invisible to family policy, the role of the family in society. What is the threat of strengthening freedom of choice and the role of young children's parents? What prevents a high level of family protection and child protection, e.g., in Norway in 2009? We'll fix it. We repair in the field by area for the challenges created in early childhood. The time has therefore come for a major effort on growth, on family life and on the safety and growth of young people in order to prevent the challenges that the State budget is addressing to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4332	The next speaker is Henning Warloe. There comes Henning Warloe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4337	Sorry, but when it's long to wait, you come sometimes too late, and it's been late in the evening. I'll talk about research policy. Well, it's funny that there's some people in the hall at least. Earlier today, Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen said that she is responsible for a wealth far greater than oil wealth, that is, human capital, the sum of knowledge in Norway. If that's right, it has to be smart politics to bet a lot on the management and processing of this enormous wealth. It's where research and education comes in. Knowledge has the strange feature that it grows as it divides and spreads. Investing in research can provide better life and health, a basis for new and profitable jobs and smart solutions that can also save the planet’s climate. Research can do all this and more. There is hardly any purpose in the state budget to which it is more forward-looking or profitable to invest. But we have to follow some rules. We must cultivate the talents and not be afraid to bet on the best minds. We must give the greatest possible freedom to research, so that the best ideas grow, regardless of political objectives and leadership. Already here we encounter some problems. In fact, the government's proposal for a government budget is permeated by governance. What is available from increased funding for research is, largely without exception, earmarked for the implementation of policy objectives. To put it this way: the goals are probably considerably more ambitious than the money that comes with them. In recent years, the government has taken ever stronger political governance with the field of research. The government's research policy today is more and more reminiscent of the old-fashioned, instrumental cultural policy that the Workers' Party in particular liked in the 1970s. Right goes the opposite way. We're increasing the education and research budget by an extra knowledge billion. A good party colleague of mine was injured to say an extra million, and it might not seem so ambitious. Very much of this goes to free money, which gives universities, colleges and research institutions greater freedom and greater levers. Since we are more concerned than the Government that business is also going to be investing more in research, we are strengthening the TaxFUNN scheme by nearly 400 million. In addition, kr. In addition, the right-hand side increases the funding for the Research Fund by a total of DKK 10 billion. The government could have invested more in education, research and knowledge in a budget where a person spends a record amount of money. The government should have done it, but it's the right that does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4354	This state budget is the last of the very first red-green government to come forward, and the first one that the new red-green government is going to put into life. We have four years ahead of us – a morning ‘with blank sheets and color pen counter’, to quote Alf Prøysen. It's probably some of us who think it's fun, after the bridesmaids of the last few days. The phrase is most familiar to their songs, but in the books he wrote, he showed a genuine social commitment to those who are at the bottom of the ranking ladder, and who, for various reasons, fall outside. I'm proud to belong to a party in a government that has the same commitment, and that follows this up in practical politics. As a member of the Justice Committee, I would like to highlight in particular the important job that we have not only done, but that we should also do, in order to achieve the goal of prevention better, react more quickly, learn more and rehabilitate better. We have this year created 460 new civilian positions in the police and are continuing this effort next year. Most 300 police officers will thus be able to be released for operational police work. This means not only that several lawbreakers can be taken, but also that the police can prevent new ones from becoming lawbreakers. Many of those in prison need good follow-up in order to break a bad circle. Often there is a problem with your image. This frame not only the individuals themselves, but also the relatives and the community, with the gain crime and the other crimes that follow. That is why it is right not only to fill the criminal service with punishment, but also to fill it with a content that gives more opportunities to deal with life better. This is why, for example: also allowed to create sleepiness units, including: in Hustad prison, next year. A new children's home in Stavanger can also be highlighted in particular. Young people are the weak party in many contexts, and setting up such children’s homes is strengthening the efforts of young people. I'm looking forward to the next four years, because I'm sure this government means something. She makes a difference for those who need extra follow-up, both the victims of crime and those who carry him out. It's not just us politicians who need blank sheets and pencils at the moment, but also these individuals. We're going to do the best we can to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4377	I want to talk about bureaucracy. There's something everybody's talking about, but there's a few that do something about it. SV will try to focus more on this in this period we have ahead of us. Nevertheless, it is important initially to establish that ‘bureaucratic’ is a beautiful and important concept, because without bureaucrats it stops society. It's not like they're often accused of, the opposite, that they stop society. That's because it's wrong. It is a little constructive approach. I have to say that it is part of the budget proposals and the commentaries of the opposition that are somewhat influenced by such a simplified and ‘populistic’ thinking. For several reasons, there is growing governance and control activity in our society, both in the private and public sectors, which plagues and irritates more and more of us, increasingly. A lot of it's probably meant well. We want more and better knowledge and insight to guide effectively: what is going on? What kind of policy is it that works and that doesn't work? Then it has to be counted and reported. If you don't, the management audit comes back and reports in cash that the procedures are not in place here, we lack control. The growth of this rights society contributes in the same direction. Everything has to be presented and subsequently documented in order to be able to withstand any criticism and complaint later. So it's not at least a third reason, and here we're probably socialists a little bit more in doubt if that's well meant. It's the current governance models and governance philosophies that have shaped our society over the last three decades, and that we often call New Public Management. Before I get back to that, I would say that we can't say that knowledge is wrong, or that it's not important to guarantee fundamental rights. But it has some very difficult consequences, which I think we've done a little bit too little problem if we draw this way too far. There'll be so many forms. It steals so much time. It creates an atmosphere of distrust more than of trust. It requires not least a bureaucratic apparatus to collect and process, and then to put all this knowledge into practice. I am, among other things, Very much in doubt if we can make use of everything we now collect from data, from schools, hospitals, businesses, etc. It'll be too easy to collect into the blind. All the data becomes kind of good data because they're data. So it was this thing with New Public Management, this heroic attempt to modernise the public sector, divide it into output units, set in motion a competitive situation more than cooperation, etc. Here it builds up a bureaucracy. To start with a rehabilitation facility I visited a couple of weeks ago: here they have to build up a great capacity to order rather than cooperate, or become attractive to hospitals, hubs and municipalities. Similarly, Nav, municipalities and hospitals have to build up a device to submit tenders to such rehabilitation institutions. It builds up strong, large appliances around it that are going to compete with each other, and interact more in that way, rather than interacting in good ways like we did in the past, to develop new services together. This is not going to be a good solution, and there's going to be a lot of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4394	Let me start by thanking the previous speaker for an article about a theme that this assembly could spend even more time on. It has been a day when the environment and energy have been on the agenda in some special way. If we raise our eyes and look beyond the one-sided focus on the biofuel charge, and if we add the goodwill properly, this focus must be on the bottom of a genuine commitment to the climate and the environment. It's an engagement that we, in the government party, too, should be overjoyed. The exposure shown by the opposition, with the exception of the one point that has been much debated here today, must be seen as a unison support for the Government to bet more heavily on climate and renewable energy. There is no other government in recent times that has so clearly invested in renewable energy production. One increases the Renewal Fund by DKK 5 billion to DKK 25 billion. The fund’s return on net tariffs and direct licenses means that Enova distributes DKK 1.8 billion to renewable production and energy efficiency measures. The Government agrees with the Swedish Government on the basis of a green certificate market, which will take effect in 2012, and today announces transitional arrangements to secure the commitment until the certificate market takes effect. One has made a heavy effort to strengthen the NVE's capacity to handle and implement new projects and to maintain renewable efforts. More of the great potential for new energy, wind, water and bio must be realised, and the Government is also heavily committed to researching new and immature renewable energy technologies. But we have to move on. Norway is the society of opportunity. Our contribution to climate work is, above all, morally correct. We're supposed to be contributing. Then, too, it opens up great opportunities for production, industry and competence within what will be energy bearers in the future. It requires that we increase our effort further in time to come. Renewable energy must come at the same time as investment in infrastructure, research and development, which secures the new energy. Preferably, a new renewable energy investment should go parallel to the phase-in of more electricity in transport, on the base and in industry. In addition, there is also a need to facilitate the exchange of power with the rest of the world. We must be impatient in the work of climate change. Few countries have as good a reason to be impatient as we have, precisely because climate challenges also represent great opportunities for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4409	In our day, the government launched the interaction reform – a very important work that means that many health services, a lot of skills and a lot of capital are to be moved from the major hospitals to the municipalities where people live. This is very good. In order to mention some critical factors that the Storting is now going to work on, I would like to point out the equivalence of the relationship between health companies on the one hand and the municipalities on the other, a good funding system that ensures that right things are done in the right place, and access to competence locally. These are major challenges that the municipalities and the Stortinget have to address in time. This is a good example of improving the efficiency of the public sector. We need more of that in the future, and then I'm over to the next point, namely demography – something we should have spent more time on in this room, just because in the future we're going to be fewer who are going to pay for more. We have to make things smarter, and we have to do things better. The answer for the future is not to print increased taxes alone. I have noted with great satisfaction the great commitment of the Minister of Finance to the generation accounts, and I support it very much. I think it's incredibly important that we today be able to create systems that carry over time, into the future. I believe that the pension reform was a crucial start. I believe that the discussion we have seen over the last few days on sick pay is important and good, but I also believe that in the future we must continue. We must be willing to take more and more important debates and discussions around our welfare system in the coming years. Not least, I believe that a common understanding of the reality and the challenges is essential in order to make progress in this, and then we and this room play a major role. I think that more people have to work more, and I think we have to use our overall social resources in an even better way. It's a duty we have, and a prerequisite for our descendants to have the same space of action, both in their private economy and not least in the public economy, that we've had. That's essentially what this boils down to: we have to be able to deliver something that is better able and better than what we have today, and what we've taken over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4420	The government's proposals for the government budget for next year are unfortunately bad news for the patients in Westfold. Once again we are witnessing that the seventh construction steps at the Hospital in Vestfold have been trained by the sitting government. This is with respect to report very disappointingly. Red-green wholesalers have an explanation problem with the inhabitants of Vestfold – all the time the reality is that old promises and promises are not being fulfilled by their own government. As it appears, it is only the party of progress that is the guarantor of the seventh stage of construction at SiV. The Maritime Home in Stavern is a unique offer used by people from all over the country. Seafarer's home is under heavy pressure financially. As I see it, it is necessary to take into account that the Maritime Home is of national importance, and that therefore there is a need to find opportunities for framework conditions that ensure the unique offer they have. The Progress Party calls on the strongest Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that this offer is made. I note that the Government's draft budget does not safeguard the interests of patients in Westfold. This is something I hope the voters will remember until 2013. The party of progress is, has been and will always be a guarantor of the health provision of all citizens of the country, including in Westfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4432	Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country. The main role of Norwegian agriculture is to produce safe and clean food for its own population. It is also important to see Norwegian food production in an international perspective. A billion of the world's population is starving today, and we are facing a future food crisis. We also know that the world's population will increase in the coming years, and that by 2050 we will be about nine billion people on earth. This means that we need to double the food production during this period in order to feed the world's population. In Norway, too, the population will increase in the coming years, and the Centre Party therefore believes that we need to increase Norwegian food production as a result of this development. Today we import half of the food we eat here to land, and it puts us in a vulnerable position, if there is an international crisis. Access to food for one's own population is a fundamental prerequisite for a nation, and in many ways we can therefore say that national food supply is part of defence policy. The centre party is pleased that Soria Moria II has stated that it is necessary to make its own notification of enlargement in order to provide the basis for a forward-looking agricultural and food policy. This message shall cover the entire range from soil to table and cover the entire food value chain. The objective of agricultural policy is to maintain a living and diverse agriculture and sustainable forestry throughout the country, providing attractive jobs and ensuring recruitment. It is also important to further develop agricultural income and welfare policies in order to achieve this. The centre party believes it is important to ensure an agricultural sector with a varied farm structure across the country through a clear rural profile and to further strengthen the grass-based livestock population. Agricultural and food policies provide the basis for industries and experiences in the fields of land, tourism, the food industry, open cultural landscapes and biodiversity. For tourism, the cultural landscape is important in order to create attractive tourism products throughout the country. Active agricultural policy is therefore also important for travel. For example, the Hurtigruten has in its marketing focus on the experience of their guests of a living cultural landscape and of active local communities along the coast. In several other areas, tourism cooperates with agriculture to produce exciting and forward-looking tourism products. In this context, I would like to mention in particular bets on short-range food and local food traditions. In Nordreisa in Troms, for example, Bios served the full menu on traditional food. Locally produced lambs and reindeer are included here, and local history is linked to the dishes. They have also reaped more prizes for their work on local food. The centre party is pleased that the government is adding to an active and forward-looking agricultural policy, and we look forward to receiving our own big message in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4455	Today, Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen and Minister of Industry of Sweden, Maud Olofsson signed an agreement on the principles for the development of a single market for electricity certificates, or green certificates of will. At the same time, we are debating today in the Stortinget, the state budget for 2010, which contains a record investment in the environment, and not least a commitment to renewable energy: €5 billion for the Renewable Fund €1.8 billion in support of environmentally friendly energy measures through Enova's contribution to CO2 management €3.4 billion for research on projects at Mongstad and Kårstø 300 million. SEK for research and development in renewable energy and carbon capture; The main driver for speeding up the development of green energy will be today's agreement on the transition to a green certificate market. This will contribute positively to the environment and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in addition, this effort will not least provide the basis for the development of business, the development of industry and new jobs. I am convinced that this is going to be one of the most important industries in my own part of the country, North Norway, in the years that are coming. Renewable energy is going to be the new industrial standard. And the adventure is already going on: In Northern Ireland, there are 600 industrial workplaces linked to solar technology in Glomfjord and Narvik. Finnmark has the best wind resources across Europe, and two wind farms are operating in the country. In the spring, Finnfjord got 175 million in Troms. kr to convert waste energy from the melting furnaces to green power – and to heat to be used in biofuel production plants. Finnfjord also aims to become the first CO2 neutral melting plant in the world. At the end of September, the technology company Hydra Tidal in Harstad was allocated 23 million to build a pilot plant for tidal energy. The unique green technology shall be put into operation in the Gimsøstroom in Lofoten until next year. Hydra Tidal believes that it is highly realistic to extract a force equivalent to 20 Alta power plants. Hydra Tidal has visions – they want to make the bet into a Northern Norse industrial venture. By building up technology development and production in the region they believe it can be created from 1 000 to 1 500 jobs related to the development and production of green power plants. Those who believe these are unrealistic visions should see what they have done in Denmark. The Danes have become world leaders in wind power, not because they have a lot of wind, but because they have invested in the long term. 27 000 jobs are linked to the wind power industry. Wind power technology is becoming Denmark's largest export product. SV has presented a plan with the aim of creating 5,000 green jobs in North Norway over the next 10–15 years. Today we adopt an overall environmental budget of 37 billion kroner, an increase of 5.7 billion kroner, and today an agreement was reached with Sweden on the principles of transition to a green certificate market. [[The President clubs.]] If this investment is taken into account, we have every reason to believe that we will achieve the goal of 5,000 new industrial jobs in North Norway. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4496	The President will remind you that speaking time is absolute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4499	For SV, the benefits provided to people who either do not have a job or are disabled, elderly or disadvantaged are a cornerstone of well-being. Throughout the day, I have been listening to representatives of the Progress Party who have complained violently about the submitted budget. The representative Eriksson of the Progress Party even asked, "Where is it from the welfare?" Then I thought that I could go and look at the budget of the Progress Party and look at the well-being of that budget. What did I find there? Well, that was $2.6 billion in sick pay, that was $100 million. SEK in the cut for medical rehabilitation, and there was SEK 4.4 billion in cuts in disability. I thought, how in the world is this going? This means that almost 30,000 people on 1 January are going out of work and into a working life that is crowded and difficult. It's possible that someone has more faith in miracles than I do, but I don't believe in healing through the alternative state budget, where the revenues are creative accounting and the cuts hit grossly unsocially. In addition, when the representative Eriksson complains that the qualification programme, which is one of the most important measures we have for the most disadvantaged, has not started quickly enough, and that they have actually planned to cut, this went a little bad in Nav in 2008. Yes, it did. In 2008 and 2009, the Progress Party cut the operating budget of Nav, which was supposed to help people get into the qualification programmes, with nearly 1,000 employees. I don't think it would have been very good for those who needed a qualification programme. In addition to that, the Progress Party will raise 58 million. the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate, which are responsible for ensuring the pay and working conditions of ordinary people. It's maids, it's carpenters, it's cleaners, it's not supposed to have a protection, because the Progress Party thinks they don't need it. In fact, they are going to compete for wages, and that means that those who are the most vulnerable in Norwegian working life are going to have to lose their wages. I believe that both ordinary workers, ordinary workers and anyone who needs either disability benefits, sickness benefits or other benefits should be very happy that the budget of the Progress Party is not adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4517	Today will be a ghastly example of charging being more important than environmental measures. Too many people will see the introduction of biodiesel taxes as incomprehensible. In the media, government councils say they didn't understand what they were into when they accepted the introduction of first-generation biodiesel. LO Leader Roar Flåthen slaughters Stoltenberg's biodiesel job, showing the same newspaper. Founders who have invested in what they have been told was environmentally friendly and forward-looking clearly show that they feel cheated. Others who feel tricked and led behind the light are owners of combustion plants that have garbage as fuel and energy resources for district heating. These facilities today have unused capacity due to the garbage charge, which costs NOK 100 per year. tonnes to burn the waste in Norway. That is why 15 000 trailers with garbage go to Sweden every year, where the Swedish government has wisely removed this fee. Garbage is a resource that has led members of Norwegian District heating to invest 10 billion kroner, in the belief that reason would lead to the disappearance of this strange fee. But no, it doesn't seem to be reasonable in both of these related matters. Fees are more important than climate action. For climate skeptics, today’s decision will probably make an additional contribution to the more and more skepticism. Most people just don't understand it, and many people express frustration at what is the result of today's decision. Whether the government is busy showing concern about climate change, they choose a strategy that is strange and that the fewer understand. The party of progress is busy providing Norwegian companies with guidance, and it will not give a pat on the shoulder to start climate action, and then in the next one to charge for the action, so that it stops altogether. It is a matter of trust, and several speakers from the government party have rallied over the opposition's conclusion on the removal of these charges. But there will be no more responsible if you repeat the bad arguments once in a while. This battery is unable to handle the rain. The stacks crack in all directions, even though parts of the government should have a good experience in carrying a tail. But this time it doesn't look very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4532	It is very regrettable that the Government is unable to take care of Norway’s interests as an energy nation. We see a total lack of understanding for actors participating in this sector. For the first time, the tradition of presenting an oil notification has been broken. All previous governments have had routines about this, but now we have to go back to 2004 to find the last message. This, of course, creates uncertainty about where this government will in oil policy. And the industry is still waiting, or it's making its investments abroad. Decision-making that triggers activity also triggers large investment requirements. At least one then has to be able to offer is predictability and a long-termity, as an oil notification can contribute and contribute to. The industry cannot take the chance that the Government will give the Swedish Government any political victory for which the industry itself has to risk paying. The Norwegian climate allowances system is now integrated into a common European trading system. Here, too, the Government is able to establish a law that will be anti-competitive for Norwegian industry. The future of the Norwegian aluminium industry depends on the same framework conditions as in European industry, not on government symbolism policies, which end with the deflagration of the world’s purest aluminium industry. The complete wording of the biodiesel levy, the suspension of green certificates and the uncertainty surrounding the allocation of new search areas confirm that there is a government without credibility or predictability. Of course, all actors will notice whether they operate on a Norwegian base or in the development of alternative energy. The world needs Norwegian oil and gas. The analysis of the world’s energy needs by the International Energy Agency shows that the world is dependent on increased production of Norwegian oil and gas, not less. And as long as the objective of climate policy is cut in CO2 emissions, these cuts must go on the consumption of coal. Thus, it is almost a threat to the world’s energy needs and the reduction of CO2 emissions that one does not now want further development on Norwegian soil. Business also has little to do with the government's budget proposal. Even with a record expenditure side, the Government is unable to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Feeding in Norway is expensive. Therefore, it is all the more important to be able to offer framework conditions that improve competitiveness. It will achieve this through a reduction in taxes and taxes, through a reduction in red tape, through a focus on road construction and improved access to risk capital. There are measures that will stimulate Norwegian business to continue to generate value, to continue to grow, to continue to believe in a future in the country — including for the next generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4557	What made me take the floor was the intervention of the representative Karin Andersen. I have to say I'm quite shocked when it's served from this pulpit that when you don't go in to set up regional protection agencies, it means the same thing as reducing the pay of people in the hotel and restaurant industries. Does this mean that until today’s date their pay terms have almost been ruined because of the lack of such a scheme? I think it's pretty rude that you use this pulpit to make such lying claims. Then I also want to say that the reason why the Advance Party reduces medical rehabilitation is that we treat more people, so they don't have to go on those benefits. I also think that the government parties might have heard more about their own prime minister, who a few days ago had an ambition to reduce sick leave in the new IA agreement by 10 pst. The Progress Party takes this seriously and also takes action to reduce it. So our budget is going really well together. We have good proposals that go together, and we have good implications for what we come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4568	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4576	The size is then ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4586	The statement by the Minister of Finance at the Stockholm meeting on 13 October 2009 on the State and National Budget for 2010 is proposed in the Annex to this Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4594	A total of 66 proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposals Nos. 1 up to and including Nos. 64 is included on pages 187-195 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 65 and 66 are distributed in the hall. The following proposals are available: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 5-53, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 54, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 55 and 56, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Left motion No. 57, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 58-61, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 62–64, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 65, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 66, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 62 to 64, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e4856	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 58-61, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5077	There is a vote on proposal No. 57, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5275	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 55 and 56, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5299	There is a vote on proposal No. 54, from the Right Party and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5317	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5–53, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘A Framework Decision 1State administration8 271 853 0002Family and consumer63 547 742 0003Culture5 539 016 0004External 24 884 913 5005Justice19 054 381 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing10 556 104 0007Work and social284 986 286 0008Defence34 655 944 0009Industry5 206 290 00010Fischery499 096 00011Agriculture8 136 78000012Oil and energy-76 412 237 00013Environment3 836 547 00014Constitutional institutions1 568 683 00015Health130 900 845 00016Church, education and research43 767 413 00017Transport and communication32 223 596 00018Room grant etc. to the local government sector90 004 040 00019Simultaneous expenditure and revenue11 481 755 00020Guarantee Institute for Export Credits-383 600 00021Financial administration etc.29 484 484 00022Taxes, levies and duties-782 007 432 00023Distributions etc.-20 830 452 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to and from the State pension fund - abroad-71 027 952 500 B The government is asking the government to file a case, at the latest in the context of the treatment of the Revised National Budget for 2010, to increase the obligation of municipalities to treat non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens from 88 p.m. to 90 pst. with effect from 1 August 2010 at the latest. C The Storting asks the Government to file a case for Dad on an independent basis to work up the right to paper commission. D The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on the introduction of zero rates of VAT for voluntary teams and organisations. The funds on the cap. 315 item 70 is removed by a corresponding reduction in the chapter of income. 5521 VAT item 20, so that voluntary inclusion in the VAT system with zero rate on outgoing invoices and 25 pst. deduction of input invoices. E The Government is requesting the imposition of a one-off fee on a new police service vehicle from 1 January 2010. F The size asks the Government to launch projects with rental of property in the country of origin of the perpetrator, or in other countries with free settlement capacity. G The government is asking the government to develop a needs-driven financing system for the municipal sector for all basic welfare services. H The government asks the private builders to be included in the House Bank's grant for nursing home construction, in order to increase the scope and breadth of care provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5909	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5926	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose an investment programme for investment in sustainable development in poor countries, with the objective of a total investment framework of at least 10 billion. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5942	There is a vote on proposal No. 66, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to reopen the Olaf Protection Marine Base.’ The left has announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5960	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e5984	One minority proposal remains, and that is proposal No. 65, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party, and Left. The proposal is an alternative to the proposal for a decision under I. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In order to avoid the imposition of a levy on biodiesel, Stortinget shall take the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6076	An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote I.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6297	The case concerns Innst. 3 S. A total of 35 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 7, 21 and 28, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 2 and 3, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 4, 8, 25 and 29, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 5, 9, 26 and 30, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6, 10, 27 and 31, by Borghild Tenden, on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 11-13, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 14-20, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 22-24, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 32-34, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 35, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left Proposals Nos. 1–31 is included on pages 124 to 158 of the vote, while proposals Nos. 32 to 35 is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6335	In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 21 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Decisions on the financial framework were taken in the previous case and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will lapse because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. The following proposals are addressed: I, 21 and 28, from the Party of Presidents, Nos. 4, 8, 25 and 29, from Right, No. 5, 9, 26 and 30, from the Christian People's Party, no. 6, 10, 27 and 31, from the left, and no. 35 from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left Party. The proposals concern Framework Areas 18, 19, 22 and 23. In order to save time, the President will not repeat the minority proposals that fall within the respective framework areas. As far as the other minority proposals are concerned, some of them may have doubts as to whether they will have a budgetary impact, but they do, would be subject to a framework and would be contrary to the rules of the budgetary procedure. The President has taken note of three proposals which he clearly believes are framework-dependent and therefore cannot be put to the vote. That is proposal No. 19, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and the proposals No. 23 and 24, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The other proposals are without prejudice to the framework adopted, so that they will be contested. The President then first takes these up to voting. There is a vote on proposal No. 22 from the right hand and from the Christian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6358	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14 to 20, except paragraphs 19 from the right, the Christian people's party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6405	The proposals are then put to the vote. 11-13, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6434	As regards proposal No: 7, from the Progress Party, which is included in the setting on page 127, and which relates to frame area 19, it is quite similar to the proposal for a decision of the suspension, so that the Progress Party can uphold its position by supporting it. The President therefore believes that the best thing would be that proposal No. Seven are drawn, so we don't get into the somewhat unfortunate situation that we first reject something that will be adopted later. - It's nodding. Then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6439	It is then voted over the 2 and 3 proposals from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6461	At the request of the proposers, a separate vote shall be taken on proposals Nos. 32, 33, 34, from the Party of Prosperity, Right Party, Christian Party, and Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6478	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 33, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6494	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 34 from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess tax differentiation linked to robust sustainability criteria for biodiesel.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6507	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution and we shall begin with the framework area 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6748	As the President has explained, divergent proposals, both for Framework Area 18 and those following. The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6761	We're going to area 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6888	The President assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against, while the Advance Party will support the motion for a resolution of the vote, since they have a proposal that coincides with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e6899	We have now reached Framework Area 22, and it is under that area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and revenues for them for next year. Framework area 22 is extensive, so we're going to have to add up over this. The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e13083	The President expects the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e13094	Then there's still going to be a vote over border area 23. Here the President must first make a correction, and this is the last chapter under Roman numeral I. Cape. 5685 is called Shares in StatoilHydro ASA. The company in question has a new name and emblem, so the correct thing is that the chapter should be called Shares in Statoil ASA – a name that you will recognize in the hall from before. And yet there's someone who claims that there's no simplification...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e13464	The President expects the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left too to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e13479	During the debate 61 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3 and 4, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 5-7, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left proposals No. 8 and 9, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 10, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 11-16, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party for Progress, proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 19-27, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 28, 29, 30a, 30b and 31-34, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 35, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 36–40, 41a, 41b and 42–47, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, and proposals No. 48 to 59, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e13893	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 36-38, 40, 41a and 42-46, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14120	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection, etc. It shall be amended as follows: [[People's Security Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14161	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28-29, 30a, 30b, 31, 33 and 34, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14308	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 22–27, from the right and left:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14480	There is a vote on proposal No. 18 from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14511	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–16, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14613	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the right, Christian party and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14683	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14712	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14797	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 1964 No. 14 on inheritance and certain gifts are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14847	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14937	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e14984	The proposal for a decision, first B, C, D, F, H, I, M, O, and P, will be contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15280	Then we've come to capital K, which concerns the tax law. It's going to add up to V.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15308	Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15319	So it's going to add up to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15344	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15355	The President shall allow votes to be cast against the other Roman figures under K.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15533	So we're going to continue with A, which is the law on excise duties, I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15563	The President will also vote on the L, on the Tax Payments Act, in Sections 16 to 41.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15580	In addition, G, relating to the Equation Act, Section 3-13 paragraphs, will be contested. 2 b and § 4-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15622	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15634	So let's keep going under G, the equation law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15649	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15660	The rest of G is added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15696	So we go to E, which relates to property taxes to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15738	The Christian People’s Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15749	The President then goes to J, both I and II, which is a statutory auditor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15776	Furthermore, the President will take up N, which is the subject of the Customs Act, in point (b) of the second paragraph of Section 12-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15791	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15802	Then the president will take up the rest of the N.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15869	We have then returned to L, which concerns the Tax Payments Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15891	Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15902	So let's keep going under L.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15915	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15926	For the sake of order, the President reminds us that the Stortinget has already protested against Sections 16 to 41 of the L, which the Progress Party voted against. The rest of L is taken up for feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15967	We still have to pay for Q, which concerns the VAT Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e15992	Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16003	So let's keep going under Q.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16019	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16030	The rest of Q is taken up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16089	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16098	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-26.ana.ud2292e16110	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
