ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e30	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll, Laila Davøy, Odd Einar Dørum, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Kari Lise Holmberg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e64	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3326]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e81	The proposers point out that meetings of elected bodies in the municipalities should, as a general rule, be held for open doors under the municipal law. Derogations from this requirement require specific reasons, decisions and justification. However, meetings in the control committee shall, according to the municipal law, as a general rule be held for closed doors if the selection has not decided otherwise. The proposers, and a minority in the Committee, believe that the Local Government Act should be amended in such a way as to ensure that the meetings of the Monitoring Committee are also, as a general rule, kept open unless otherwise provided for by the obligation of professional secrecy. The proposers, and still the same minority in the Committee, point out that reliable municipal administration requires transparency and transparency in the activities of municipalities. Open meetings in the control committee will provide citizens with better transparency and an interest in self-control in municipalities and thus provide a basis for increased confidence in municipalities. The government parties don't think as much about these important things as the minority points out here. As usual, the majority of the parties point to the establishment of a working group to review the functioning and functioning of the control committees. The majority of the records relating to a previous examination of the case that: «The principle of open meetings of the municipal administration shall also apply to the Supervisory Committee». The majority continues to state that the Government must: ‘provide that the main principle of open meetings is addressed by the set-up working group’. In my opinion, it's not that much to figure out. It's the principle of transparency that's important here, and it doesn't take long. I understand that you do not want to take a stand on this, and that you feel that it is very difficult. The minority also lacks good experience with these working groups of government parties. It often takes winter and spring before you arrive at a result. I believe that the audience and the press should be better aware of the control committees in the municipalities as well. There is a lot of debate about openness in Norway, especially in the media, that government parties should take with them. The control committee in many municipalities has itself decided that meetings should be held as a general rule for open doors. This means that the control committees in the municipalities see that there is a need for it. Government parties have set up a working group and are unable to decide on this. I'm sorry. Today, all citizens of the municipality can click on the Internet and find issues to be addressed in all policy selections. They can study case studies and afterwards check decisions in the meeting protocol etc. You can also apply for letters in the postal records of most municipal departments, but not in the control committee. I believe that it is not for the sake of politicians one should close the doors, but for the sake of the municipality as a society. I believe that the standard reason that is often used is that it becomes ‘a freer debate by closing the doors’, is not sustainable. I guess most people hear that when I say it this way. If the control committees intend to close the doors, the conditions must be privacy considerations or the closure of other overriding private or public interests. I would like to promote the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e111	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e114	We are approaching election times, and then there is a need to create some contradictions that are not there. In this case, everyone agrees. The overall size of the meeting of the Control Committee is expected to be open. The majority clearly state that the meetings should be held for open doors in municipal administration, and that this should also apply to the control committee. Clearly, it cannot be said. It is not possible to write it more clearly than that, that the majority believe that these meetings should be held for open doors. It is a principle that there should be transparency in municipal and public administration in general, and that is what we stand for. We know that the Department has set up a working group that works with the function and role of the Control Committee in the future. We believe that this group should also look at the matter. It should include this in its investigation. It's that simple! But the majority in Stortinget has already crushed the principle. We did that when we treated Innst. O. No Sixty-two. This is the second time that the matter has been dealt with. There are no more than a few months since we dealt with this matter, where we shattered this principle, so here there is no contradiction. Everyone believes that these meetings should be open. Then we ask the ministry through the group that is set up, look at this and come back to the Stortinget. But it would be quite premature and quite impossible for the department to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that is not in line with the main principle that we've been kneeling.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e121	The general rule of the municipal law is that meetings of elected bodies in municipalities and county municipalities are open. The right to derogate from the general rule can be found in Section 31 of the Act. 3, which is given a wide and partly upresis design. The left regrets that the majority will not go further than to encourage a set-up working group to seek amendment to the municipal law § 77 paragraph. Eight. On the left, it is of great concern as a general rule to maintain closed meetings for the control committees. On the basis of the principle of more publicity in the administration, it appears little thought to continue with a general rule aimed at closing the meetings of the bodies which have as their primary task of supervising the management in line with the intentions of good administration. The representatives Gunnar Kvassheim and Leif Helge Kongshaug of the Left have therefore made a proposal to amend § 77 no. 8, so that the legal status of the control committees as a starting point shall allow the meetings to be opened and closed only where there are particular reasons. Trustful municipal administration requires transparency and transparency in the activities of municipalities. The control committee is the main tool of the Municipal Council for overseeing and controlling the municipal administration. The activities of the Control Committee contribute to the efficient and proper use of resources in municipalities, as well as to the prevention and detection of maladministration and adverse circumstances. Publicity in the control committee will provide citizens with better transparency and interest in self-control in municipalities and thus a basis for increased confidence in municipalities. In several municipalities, the Control Committee itself has decided that meetings should be held as a general rule for open doors, but that the doors can be closed if they deal with matters that allow the meeting to be closed. This shows that the control committee should be able to follow the same rules on the public meeting as other elected bodies in the municipalities. The left believes it is also time to implement amendments to the municipal law § 31 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox There has long been broad agreement on the need for a new design of the derogation. Today's wording creates uncertainty and confusion and also leads to meetings being closed to a greater extent than was the intention of the provision. The left wishes to clarify the determination so that it is applied in line with the intended purpose. This need has also been recognised by the Department. The issue has been the subject of an investigation and a full consultation round in 2005, but was disregarded in the final legislative proposal in Ot.prp. No 96 for 2005–2006, on the grounds that the new Public Health Act had to be awaited. It was adopted in the Grand Duchy in June 2006. The current statutory audit continues to state that the Ministry will return to a review of the rules on the public meeting at a later date. The left considers these issues to be adequately addressed through previous consultation rounds. The left further regrets that the public, cf. Ot. pp. No 17 for 2008-2009, no appeal has been given against non-compliance with the right to a meeting. Access to meetings in elected bodies is a statutory right for the public – following the revision of the Constitutional Act § 100 in 2004. There are many examples of how state officials have refused to deal with complaints from the press or the public on the lack of publicity, and that the Civil Ombudsman has had to point out and correct obvious crimes by the elected representatives. That the ministry wants a right of appeal for the elected people is well and good, but the public meeting is not for the elected people, it is for the people. It is also necessary to allow the public to review the legality of such decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e142	I'll just make a few brief comments on some of the things that have been said in this case. First, let's make it clear what it means to set up a working group. Well then, I've also heard that if we don't want anything to happen, we're setting up a committee. That's what the representative Ib Thomsen here suggests. This is not the case with this working group. On the contrary, it is essential to look at different measures that can give a higher status to the control selection in municipalities and measures that ensure a good level of internal control in each municipality at any time. The working group is well under way and shall complete its work before the end of 2009 in accordance with the mandate. Then the main rule is as he is today with regard to the control selection's meetings – that the meeting goes for closed doors, but that the selection can open the doors when they do not deal with the information they have to deal with. It is – as has also been said here – something that is practised a little differently from the municipality to the municipality. I take this proposal seriously, I take seriously the Committee's position on the motion for a resolution that we have just discussed, and I agree that there is openness in the administration that should be the starting point – as far as it goes. Then I am glad that the working group has made it possible to discuss the issue of openness in the control selections. They've been assigned, they already have a meeting on the subject, their starting point is openness. The workgroup then comes up with its configuration, and so it will be that in order to practice a code as precisely and as clean as possible, a preferred one, and preferably in advance of a change in the law, will have to work out different aspects of it. I mean by this saying that we're going to come back from the department's side with a follow-up to what has already been said by the committee in connection with Ot.prp. No 7 for 2008-2009, and as said by Rolf Reikvam and others in the room no. This is not a matter that is placed in a working group to stay there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e155	I take seriously the majority's remark about openness. I believe that the majority of the government parties want open meetings in the control committee. I assume that the Council of State and the Government will follow it up and come back with a proposal that can get this in place. What I don't understand is that this can't be determined now. I have a great deal of understanding that someone will investigate the form of work and the scope of the control committee. It is a good starting point to aim at making the control committee more important and strengthening their job opportunities. However, it can be done even if the question of holding open meetings – for all the issues that need to be addressed in the context of open meetings – is well elucidated. The Monitoring Committee may have open meetings, with the exact limits and possibilities for closed meetings according to defined guidelines of other municipal committees. We were through the same procedure when it was about the Presidency meetings. Then it was said that it was completely impossible to have open Presidency meetings because it would lead to the debates being moved to other places, and that it was not a suitable form of work. Now the principle of open meetings in the Presidency is legal, so there's no reason why we can't confirm this right now and at the same time work to look at the work of the control committee further. I therefore choose to conclude in this way: there is broad support for this principle. It'll come, the left has got the edge on that idea. But it's too late, and it creates an uncertainty when it pushes out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e172	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e194	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the Local Government Act in such a way that as a general rule the meetings of the Monitoring Committee are to be held for open doors, in the same way as meetings of other elected bodies.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05.ana.ud205e225	There is no record. Before the meeting is cancelled, the President has the following information: During the Monday meeting, there are a lot of issues, and the debate time has been considerably expanded, so that we have to reduce the break to 1 hour and start the evening meeting at 1 p.m. 17. Everyone has to prepare for the Monday meeting not to end until Tuesday. If the committees want the debate to be conducted so that you get a sense of what it was like in the Storting in the old days, you can do it. Then the meeting will not be finished until breakfast – so if someone has nostalgic feelings, it is quite possible. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
