ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e67	The representatives Erling Sande and Line Henriette Hemdal have applied for leave from 14 December to 17 December – both to participate in the high-level part of the fifteenth Conference of the Parties under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the fifth meeting of the Parties under the Kyoto Protocol in Copenhagen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Sogn and Fjordane County Knut Magnus Olsen and for Eastfold County John Thune, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e91	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e94	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Dagrun Eriksen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for abortion prevention measures to halve the abortion rate by 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e99	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e102	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Frank Bakke Jensen, Svein Harberg, Lars Myraune, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen and myself make a proposal on non-interventional natural areas, INN.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e107	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the scheduled time. 16 until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e125	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, The Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e136	It's in the municipalities that people live in, and it's the municipalities that have the overall responsibility to make sure that people live well, it's good and has the ability to work around at all. That's why having a good community economy has always been one of the most important steps from the three government parties, so that people can trust that it's a good welfare state. We think that a strong and healthy municipal economy is a good prerequisite for a good welfare offer across the country, and we have a goal of strengthening the free income of the municipal sector during the period. We must remember that having a good municipal economy is the best district policy that can be followed. It also says research reports that go into that area. We want to strengthen the local economy in such a way as to provide a good service, both for the elderly and for the young. It's the municipalities that make sure that the school takes good care of our kids so that they become useful people and learn what they need to learn in order to contribute to the community later, and realize themselves. And we know that municipalities have to strengthen their economy if we're to do the job that's so important to prevent high school drop-outs. The municipalities have also done a great job in what I think was the most important welfare reform, in the first period of the red-green government, namely the kindergarten reform. I have told myself in the past about how it was when I was born, and when I was little, almost no nursery places were found. It was just 2-3 pst. who went to kindergarten. I didn't even get kindergarten till I was six years old, and because of the year I was in kindergarten, I became a kindergarten fundamentalist. I work for it – I am simply a follower of my throat that all kids will get a real offer. That's a promise we made, and we managed to make it happen. But we wouldn't have been able to implement it if it hadn't been for a good community economy and people and local politicians around the whole country who understood the importance of the promise it was necessary to make. We will also strengthen the local economy in 2010, and in particular we will strengthen the free revenues. So the total amount of funds that the municipalities will have in 2010 is NOK 333 billion. It's a formidable amount. The increase is SEK 4 billion – just over 4 billion – in free income, a total of DKK 8 billion. We know that 2008 was a tough year for the municipalities. One could say that the financial crisis hit the municipalities hard, as it hit many others. One had a real promise, one got higher wages than we expected, and that made a lot of municipalities go wrong in 2008. But through 2009 and beyond in 2010, we believe that the total amount of money that we have granted from Stortinget, which the Government has provided, will ensure that municipalities are consolidated and better tidy and more stable economy. But we also believe that there should be the possibility of a lift in several of the areas. One of the things that we bring forward as especially important is the ability of municipalities to hire more people in child protection. We have large increases in government spending on child protection, and we know that the best way to help kids is to be early, before they need help from government child protection. That's why we're making sure there's room for 400 new annual works. There are many things I could say about the strengthening of the municipal economy: how it gives room for several hours in primary school, how we make sure to clean up school buildings that are, how we take care of when we now transfer responsibility for the roads to the county municipalities and transfer 1 billion extra kroner, that the county municipality will have the freedom to operate the maintenance of roads, the maintenance of schools and get a stake in high school. We also have responsibility for public administration in the municipal committee. We believe that providing good public administration that provides the services needed is extremely important. We also make a commitment: we are responsible for state buildings and want to make a commitment in many areas by building important buildings for society. We're doing a job to pull the load to meet the climate challenges by letting state buildings go ahead and be the worker and the figure – the front figure – for a real efficiency in energy use. We need that to solve the climate problems. We also have a job to do to ensure equal pay. The two ministers who sit here who are responsible for and work on equal pay and equality by the state have a job to do to make sure that we actually succeed in the equality work. The Soria Moria Declaration clearly shows how we can do this in cooperation with the parties. We are highly committed to the introduction of new computer systems, the upgrading of computer systems, because giving people the opportunity to make use of ICT and eID so that more of the services can be accessible to people, means an important efficiency in the public sector, and it is important that people actually get what they need. The right had a completely insane proposal during the election campaign, where they suggested much, much longer opening hours in the public sector. I would rather say, when we know that most of the applications for kindergarten are delivered at 0 p.m. 2 a.m. by parents who want to send their kids to kindergarten – we can of course always ask if it is good for parents to be awake at 4 p.m. 2 at night – we need to provide data solutions and the opportunities for opening hours in the public sector that are there, and make the public sector available to people when they need it. That's what we're betting on from the Government. Then, too, in the municipal committee, we have responsibility for district and regional policy and housing policy. There is no doubt that the fact that we have a home bank is our most important tool for social housing – that is the most important thing – and it strengthens housing support, which gives a boost to the many who need extra support, extra help, so that they can cope with high housing costs. This is an important step to make sure that differences are balanced and that poverty is combated. But in addition, it has been essential that we have a house bank in these times to ensure a proper countercyclical policy. Had we not had a house bench, we would have had much bigger problems in the construction industry than we have when we have a house bench. And the government has arranged to spend more money on loans to make sure to smooth the fluctuations in the economy. It has proved to be important and useful. We made important investments in the course of the year that went on, to make sure to build more rental homes. We continue to build more rental houses this year. When I look at the comments of the Progress Party and the Right – the comments of the Progress Party in particular, where they say that the free market should also be in the housing sector – I believe that we should point to Oslo, and then we will see that in the city governed by the Progress Party, where the Progress Party is responsible, there will be more market and more homeless. That is the consequence of the policies of the Progress Party, even though they are always trying to pretend otherwise. In the immigration and inclusion field, we do a huge job. Now that we have an increase in the number of asylum seekers, we're doing a job to make sure that we correct and better manage the system we have, in order to deal quickly with the number of asylum applications. I come back with criticism of the party's voodoo proposals in the field of immigration, where they are about to get half of the people living in receptions to disappear, without any control over where they are going, and at the same time they claim that their policies will halve the number of asylum seekers almost from 1 January 2010. Everyone realizes that it's voodoo and not reality. District policy is also important for our government, and there we see how we are doing more to ensure that jobs can be created across the country. We need that when we meet an increasing unemployment rate, which we see especially in parts of business, and which takes place especially in the districts, in the yard industry and in other parts of industry that are struggling, not because the government is not doing enough, but because the demand for their goods is lower than it has been in the past. When it comes to housing and the work of a more inclusive society, we're going to grab hold of the budget to make sure that more people live around in all the municipalities of the country. We cooperate well with the municipalities of the country. This year, municipalities will receive more refugees than they ever did. Next year, we also have new ambitious targets. It is important to ensure that integration begins in asylum recipients and continues at the moment of arrival in their municipalities. That is why we have strengthened the municipalities in the work we have increased the appropriations. And we've made sure that this is going to go well. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that we have submitted today, which is about the transfer of some money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e174	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e179	The Progress Party agrees that a good municipal economy is important, and we want to strengthen the municipal economy. But we do not agree that the budget presented here by the Government means a real strengthening of the local economy. There is a lot more money for municipalities, but at the same time the municipalities are assigned new tasks, new demands, which means that a set of things doesn't come out better financially. One of the last issues of the Municipal Report also states that six out of ten councillors say that their financial situation will deteriorate from 2009 to 2010. Then my question to the representative Holmås is: when the advisers and economic leaders in six out of ten municipalities say that the economy is getting worse, what is it that they have misunderstood with the government proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e186	Thank you, Hageseter, for that question. If you look at what we've transferred to the municipalities now – we see it especially in the transfers to the county municipalities – there's a lot more money, which is going to give better room for action to the municipalities to upgrade the public school and the road network that's there, and to bet on public transport, if the county municipalities think it's better. We travel country and beach around. I was in Bø in the Westålen this weekend, and I've been in East Agder and I've been talking to people there. In terms of the 2008 budget, people believe that the 2009 budget and the 2010 budget are much better budgets for the future. They think – that’s the impression I get when I travel around and listen to people – that it’s tight, it’s tough times around the municipality of Norway, but it’s still the way that transfers provide significant welfare improvements in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e195	The representative of Holmås stated that large amounts were spent in the municipal sector – NOK 333 billion. Then maybe the increase in the free income of NOK 4 billion is not so impressive, while you've gone away from the original goal, which was common to you, of having 50 pst. transfer income and tax income in municipalities. When we then also know that the corporate tax was taken from the municipalities, it is also more likely to live on transfers. At the same time, the uncoordinated sectors of the state are also involved in pushing forward expectations and costs that local authorities are not in charge of. The result is also, as the SSB describes, the worst measured result ever. My question to Holmås is whether he has any thoughts that one is not able to improve the offer to the audience even if one has a lot of resources, and whether Holmås is satisfied with the productivity development in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e204	I think that's not right what Michael Tetzschner says, that there's no positive welfare development in the municipal sector. More services are provided to the elderly. I think it was a bit nice to read Right notes, where one says that during the period there was almost a slight increase in care of the elderly. But that's the way it was a 5 pst. increase in care and the position of each elderly person. I think the very most people who get a 5 pst. increase, will feel that it is for the better and definitely not for the worse, as it was throughout the entire period when the Right crashed itself. We see how we've employed more people around the sector over the last few years. We see that the number of leaders has increased over the years that have been. We see that the number of people providing care has increased. We see the increases that are now in the county municipalities, which will provide room for both school refurbishment and better road standards. I think this overall will be something that the municipalities appreciate, and I think it will be good. They provide better services, and people are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e213	In the integration field, many people do a big and important task. I am thinking in particular of the voluntary organizations – SEIF, NOAS, KIA, to name someone. In the draft budget submitted, the majority has increased this item by NOK 300000 – a small handshake that I had hoped would become even stronger. My question to the representative Holmås is: is this a sign of a recognition of what the volunteer organisations are working on and work for, and can we expect that at the next crossroads we can increase this pot further?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e220	It is definitely meant as a signal from the Committee and from the majority that the efforts of volunteers are very important. I have challenged Freedom Norway – and I want to continue to do so – to take greater responsibility for the integration work itself. Here it is possible to draw inspiration from many other countries, such as the United Kingdom. Canada, where non-governmental organisations are much stronger within the reception of refugees and the integration work. We talk very often about refugees, because that's where we have a lot of money in the budget, but the big immigrant groups are work immigrants, which is the biggest group, or people who are family reunited. There are much less appropriations for that work. There, in my opinion, the voluntary organisations have a very important role to play. I think it's important not just to make immigration and receiving immigrants a work where we're going to integrate – where someone is going to give and others are going to receive. In being able to make volunteer organisations the arenas for inclusion, I think there's a lot of unfinished work, where volunteering has an important job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e227	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e231	Today, we are going to deal with that part of the state budget that is likely to affect most people in this country – the municipal and county sectors. Every day, as people, we are affected by the decisions taken for this sector, whether we are children, adults or older, whether we provide help to others, or whether we receive help from the public. The municipal sector is the engine of the welfare community. Municipalities shall provide childcare facilities, have high-quality school facilities, be active on the cultural side, provide sound child protection, have good care for the elderly and provide adequate care facilities for those who need it. Local authorities shall ensure that municipal roads are rung, that water is approved in the cranes, that waste is properly taken care of, that pipes sweep, that municipal fire services are adequately trained in smoke diving, that cabins are developed, that pool is filled with water, that they have to set up apprenticeships and much, much more. The short version of this list is that the municipal sector is our largest welfare producer, and the Storting will adopt the budget to ensure resources and freedom of action to carry out important welfare tasks. To do this important and important task, a healthy and robust local economy is a prerequisite. Resources must be used in key areas in order to strengthen service provision, improve quality and maintain public buildings. Any new state reform or imposition must be fully financed. That's what the government says on the Soria Moria platform. There must be predictability in the local economy if municipalities and county municipalities are to have a healthy economy and strong financial management. The municipal sector is also an important employer with a very large number of employees. In total, there are 479 000 persons employed – these are 2008 figures – in municipalities and counties. 80 pst. of the annual works of the municipalities are in health and social services, in kindergartens and in schools. In addition, the sector is also an important authority operator, community developer and service provider. This is a demanding job, and many rapporteurs feel that the money is not going to do it. The sector has been allocated large financial resources. From 2006 to 2009, an estimated real growth in total revenue of 33,8 billion in 2009 can be achieved. This money has been used for activity and service increases, which have given more kindergartens, more carers and care staff, more places of care and care, to mention something. Despite this enormous strengthening in the municipal sector, many municipalities are struggling with the economy. The reasons for that are more. Activity growth with strong increases in wage costs is one of the causes, increased interest and depreciation costs resulting from large borrowings, higher cost growth than expected and losses on financial positions are other explanations. Municipalities must use the increased free revenues to direct the local economy in a direction that makes operations more economically sustainable. Simply put, no one should use more than you have, no one should borrow more than you can repay, and the conclusion is that it is easier said than done. In addition, Norwegian municipalities are characterised by great diversity in terms of population, area, distance and settlement. Tourists coming to Norway are fascinated by our beautiful and varied nature. This is Municipality-Norway. Variation is not a problem, it shows the strength of our district policy. The whole country is inhabited, the whole country has opportunities for development — different from one country to another, but opportunities exist. In addition, Kommune-Norge has a different strength: local politicians who care about their municipality, and who spend a lot of hours volunteering to improve relationships in exactly their municipality. The government is adding to a real growth in the total income of the local government sector of about 10 %. $8 billion in 2010. Of these, 4.2 billion are free revenues. Of these funds, 230 million. D related to prevention in the context of the Interaction Reform. We also know that there are major challenges to child protection, and the growth of the economy makes it possible to realise 400 new child protection positions in 2010. In the last period, the municipal sector has seen a significant increase in its annual works related to municipal care, with 10,900 more annual works from 2004 to 2008. If you go in and look at the years 2006, 2007 and 2008, the growth was 12,500 new annual works. This means that the level of service in municipalities has increased dramatically in recent years. The 2010 budget provides additional space for several new annual shifts in the care service. Once we have figures, I would like to point out that the total real income growth for the local government sector from 2006 to 2010 is estimated at 40.9 billion 2010 in annual revenues. These are so large numbers that it's almost hard to relate to, but that's for example. more than the overall defence budget. The government strengthens the sector, and it allows the sector to strengthen the quality and supply of its citizens. In 2010, the municipal sector will have around NOK 333 billion. Of these, approximately NOK 226 billion is free income, i.e. that the free revenue is at the lower edge of 70 pst. of the total revenue. The other income of the local government sector is earmarked subsidies, VAT compensation and revenue from fees. That means 1 pst. Improving efficiency will increase the scope for action of DKK 3 billion. Some areas are being reinforced extra. This concerns the seven northernmost municipalities in Troms, which are strengthened by 10 million. kr in 2010. The municipalities of Nord-Troms have special challenges related to geography, demography and remote sensing, and the proposal of the Government is a good increase for these municipalities. Some municipalities have specific challenges related to resource-intensive services. In 2008, a system was introduced to compensate municipalities for 85 pst. of own net wage and salary costs beyond the point of entry. 3 998 million were paid in 2009. NOK – i.e. almost NOK 4 billion – to the municipalities in this grant item. It's a nominal increase of 1,030 million. NOK – i.e. over NOK 1 billion – compared to the 2008 grant. The number of recipients increased by 17.6 pst. or by 794 persons. The government proposes to increase the point of entry beyond the price increase and reduce the level of compensation from 85 to 80 pst. It's a reduction, but it's still a good arrangement. Finally, I would like to point out that the municipalities in Norway need good working conditions to carry out their important job. The best friend of the municipalities is the red-green government. It's a friendship that's real and lasting. It is a friendship that produces results in the form of good welfare offers to the entire population of Norway. And it's a friendship that makes me proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e274	I don't really stop by amazement at the representatives from the government parties' misdemeanor description of the local economy – the self-esteem, the self-glorification you can see that you almost produce it as. The representative Olsen was at the end of his contribution to resource-intensive services. It's a system where you now increase the entry point, from NOK 835000 to NOK 865000, and you also make the country's share smaller. This has great consequences. It will mean a lot, especially in many small municipalities, where you actually feel that there is a negative competition. In other words, municipalities with a good supply of resource-intensive services are penalised financially, and there is almost a desire to reduce these costs. [[President clubs]] It has unfortunately become this way. Does the real representative Olsen think this is a good development in Norwegian municipal economy? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e283	The number is out. The representative Olsen should be given the opportunity to answer — insofar as any questions were raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e286	With regard to local economy, I have 14 years of experience as rapporteur. I have been rapporteur both under a civil government and under a red-green government. I know what I prefer, and we've had a municipal economy that's to live with. We've done a lot of work. There are many things that can be done better, but definitely the red-green government has given the Municipality-Norway opportunities that no one else has done. As I said, I'm proud of it, and I think it's good. So to the issue of resource-intensive services. There's no doubt huge sums spent on this -- $4 billion is an incredible amount of money. We get a lot of well-being for that. It's an intensification, but I stand for the fact that there are still good services, it's a good arrangement for the municipalities, and it's good help for those who receive these services. If you ask rapporteurs who have worked under both the civil government and the red-green government, I know what they are all responding to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e293	It is clear that the representative Olsen's heart is beating for Kommune-Norway. It was a tribute to Kommune-Norge that I share far on the way, both in terms of the local exposure, the desire to produce good welfare offers for its citizens, etc. Concepts such as robust and solid municipal economy were also used, and all reforms were to be fully funded. I can take an example, and that is the road reform that the Government has now adopted, where the Road Code states that when one road is to be transferred from one owner to another, the road should be in good condition. This lifted the government in connection with giving a gift to the county councils: all the highways. Is this an example of a reform being fully financed when Kommune-Norge has to take over a worn-out behalf?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e298	When it comes to local economy, I think all governance depends on having a healthy and robust local economy. It's hard because there's so many problems. As I tried to show in my post, we have an incredible spectrum. It's perhaps the most complicated sector, precisely because it's so huge. Reforms are imposed on municipalities in order to improve the living conditions of the inhabitants. It also means, of course, that when new things are going in, it's undoubtedly demanding economically, and it requires priority. We are insisting that new reforms should be fully financed. I can't answer if this billion spent is enough to get there, but I'm pretty sure it's going to be the start of a job where the roads are upgraded, and it's a start on getting better road standards in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e303	We in the Progress Party are concerned that Norway will become an even better country to live in. That is the driving force and the foundation of the Progress Party's policy. We always want to make Norway even better for most people. At that time, basic welfare services in the municipalities are entirely decisive, and therefore, of course, the municipal economy is very important. But in the long term, we want to have a need-driven, state-funded funding of basic welfare services in the municipalities, where one has it so that if one identifies a need, it will also trigger government funding. This means that you will meet the need for basic welfare services, regardless of whether a cage is in a rich or poor municipality. We realize, of course, that we do not get a say in that policy for the first couple of years at least, and until we get an impact on that policy, we must of course take on the basis of today's budgetary system and the challenges it presents. There have now been several from the Red-Green Socialist parties who have claimed that this budget leads to a truly strong community economy. A user may not be able to do that. Instead, the term ‘a real growth in income’ is used. That's also what Mr. Ingenill Olsen used. Obviously, if you have an income growth, but at the same time an equally strong expenditure growth, the economy won't be better. So the local authorities don't feel any improved economy. I showed in my reply to Heikki Holmås instead of one of the last numbers of the Municipal Report. Six out of ten advisers say next year's budget is getting worse. Thus, the economic situation in six out of ten municipalities is exacerbated in 2010 compared with 2009 – and not improved, as the government party claims. In the same issue of the Municipal Report, among others: adviser Magnus Mathisen in Notodden interviewa. Notodden is one of the municipalities that wears out. It says: ‘In the draft budget, he proposes to make 54 nursing homes and to remove all support to sports facilities and to the local airport, which is thus closed, a maximum of property taxes and the removal of the bottom-up deduction, a reduction in teacher's density. He will review the school structure, eliminate paid food breaks and renegotiate the local arrangement with the teachers, with a view to removing functional supplements.’ There was nothing here that meant a strengthened community economy, as representatives from the government parties are trying to tell us here in this room. Then the question is how does this relate? Of course, this is due to an increase in transfers, but at the same time the local authorities are getting more tasks, there are getting more demands, there are increasing expectations from the inhabitants, and there is a greater use of resources and higher costs. Resource-writing services are one of the areas where costs increase considerably. Someone might say that the costs here have increased dramatically – then the Progress Party will answer that we think it is great that costs have increased so much here. Because when the cost of resource-requiring services increases as much as they do, it means that recipients of resource-requiring services get a better offer, they get a better everyday life, and they also get a better life. There's something that should mean something in this room here – not to turn the score around and think about what this costs and not how much. Here the challenge must be to give those at the bottom of the table, a better life, a better everyday life. Therefore, when the government and government sees that the costs of this group and these resource-requiring services are increasing so much, the government should have gone in and taken a larger part of it, so that the municipalities would not have received as much additional burden as they do. But the paradox is that the government doesn't do it, the government does the exact opposite. When the municipalities get increased costs, the rich state goes in and says that they will get even more costs, because they will get more of what the government has done before. Then an entry point increases from NOK 835000 to NOK 865000, which is far more than inflation, and one also reduces the state part from 85 to 80 pst. This is carried out with retroactive effect. We want to keep the state part of 85 pst. We also want to reduce the entry point, initially to 800,000 and over a few years, to 400,000. We believe that those who need the most – this weak group, those who need resource-requiring services – will get a decent and good supply. With the Progress Party's policy, we want to ensure that they get a better everyday life, a better life. With the government party's policy, I'm afraid I'm afraid that this group will have a worse offer in the years to come. When it comes to care for the elderly as skin, it is important – to get it done – that we do more than talk about this in the election campaign. The progress party is doing more, we're increasing the pace when it comes to building nursing homes and sick homes from 647,000 to 862800. We're also suggesting that we increase the state extra from 30 to 40 pst. in hospital places. We believe that this will be a good contribution to stimulating municipalities to invest more in the construction of nursing homes and hospitals. We are aware that KS wants 50 pst. State-owned offense. We're proposing 40 pst. in hospital places. We are not sure that our proposal is enough to make progress on this, but at least it is a far better proposal than the government party has. At least it's a step in the right direction. Because of these improvements, we're adding, budgeting for the construction of 3,500 new nursing homes and hospitals. There's 1,000 more than the government adds up. Other improvements that we have in our alternative state budget are more money for the colleges, 115 million. kr. We are also in favour of a strengthened schooling service, we are in favour of more state-owned roads, and we also have much more free resources. In total, the Advance Party increases the transfers to the municipalities by $4.2 billion more than the Government. It leads to more money for all municipalities in the country. To use, for example, two municipalities known to the municipal committee leader Heikki Holmås – Bergen and Oslo – Bergen would have received 165 million. NOK more, and the municipality of Oslo would have received SEK 362 million. kr more with the Progress Party's alternative budget. It's certainly not enough to solve all the challenges these municipalities face, but it'll be a step in the right direction. Another municipality, as other vice-leaders in the municipal committee, Ingarill Olsen, know well, the municipality of Måsøy, would have received 864 000 more with the Progress Party's alternative state budget compared to what they get with the government budget. I think it would have been our money that had come along well, and that might have solved some of the challenges that the municipality of Másøy has with regard to emigration, etc. Lærdal municipality, which the municipal minister Liv Signe Navarsete knows quite well, I guess, would get 1.8 million. kr more with the Progress Party's alternative state budget than with the government budget submitted to them. It may be that the municipal minister thinks that Lærdal municipality does not have the lighters or should have got these money. At any rate, the Progress Party proposes this, and we believe that Lærdal Municipality has good and wise politicians who had managed these money in a good and sensible way for the inhabitants to do their best. Some people may think that if the local authorities are fed food for a long time, they will be more effective. There is a mechanism in which the Progress Party does not trust. We believe that the municipalities should have sufficient funds transferred. At the same time, we must facilitate competition, both internal and external. We believe that competition is healthy, and that is what will make municipalities more efficient and rational. We don't think starving feeding is the right tactic. We therefore believe that such a development, with competition, will lead to better municipalities for the benefit of the inhabitants and the service recipients. After today's system, we have a budgetary system and an accounting system that covers the real economic situation of municipalities. It's that one has a deduction as an expense, but not a depreciation. This means that the municipal budget, the accounting system, shows more figures than they would have done if the municipalities had used the same system as the private sector. If we had done this overnight, it would have meant that very many municipalities – how many I don't know, but very many – would have got blood red numbers. There is, of course, something that the Government probably does not want to see. Another point is that we have too many municipalities in this country. We have 430 municipalities. With the infrastructure we have today, there are too many. We could reduce the number of municipalities apart, maybe even less than 100. I realize that there are a few years ahead of me, but in any case I think it's important that we start the process. Then it is important that municipalities also have financial incentives to merge. I asked the Minister of State, question No. 265. I referred to two municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants in Nord-Troms and asked how it would turn out in transfers to municipalities if they merged. Then it turned out that after 15 years, the state would make 31.6 million. 2010- kroner because these municipalities merged, while the municipalities would lose after 15 years. Or, in other words, they have to be more efficient for 31.6 million. kr to balance and do not come out worse than before. One doesn't have to be psychic or particularly smart to understand that with such a system, there won't be many municipal conjugations in the next few years. There is a need here for both short-term and long-term grips. The short-term aim is to donate enough money to municipalities so that they can do their job and prepare for future challenges. We also have long-term approaches that need to be taken, and that is that we need to change the accounting system and stimulate more appropriate municipal structure in Norway. More and better well-being for each of the municipalities in Norway is important, and it depends on us having a rational and appropriate municipal structure in Norway. Finally, I will re-submit the proposals that the Progress Party is behind, either alone or together with our friends in the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e338	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e343	It's especially to hear the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, mention a growth of $8 billion as a starvation feed, when we know what the Progress Party was at under the previous government. The Progress Party proposes a number of major general cuts in the operating costs of the State. It justifies the party that a 1991 NOU, against a better knowledge, concluded that the efficiency potential of the public sector was not extracted. It's happened a lot since 1991. That year came the world web, the World Wide Web, two years later the mobile phones and the GSM network came. Altin, who came in 2003, and Minside, who came in 2006, are examples of solutions that make it easier for people and businesses to communicate with the public. My question is: Is it only the 18-year-old investigation work, the 18-year-old analysis, which underlies the Party's cut-off, or does the party also base other analyses – and if so, which?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e350	I can't see that we've pointed out any 18-year-old distribution, but years-long distributions and discussions and assessments show that there is room for improving the efficiency of the public sector. Efficiency and rationalization are not something you'll end up with, it's a continuous process. It also sees one in the private business. There's an incentive to improve and streamline, because if you don't, you're going to go bankrupt. The same incentive does not exist in the public sector, so there is a need to take action to get it done. We believe that this is something that can be implemented, and it is important that the municipalities too keep the gain, so that it can be used for basic welfare services for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e356	The Progress Party is, of course, opposed to socialism and everything that smells of backing up people, regulating markets and doing things that make people have basic welfare arrangements in place. The Progress Party is directly or through cooperation to govern both the two largest cities here in the country, Bergen and Oslo. Can the Progress Party explain why the two cities are also the ones who notice an increase in the number of homeless people, while at the same time refusing to pursue a socialist housing policy where more rental homes are provided? Oslo is one of the cities which makes great use of the possibility of state grants to rental properties. Consequence: More progress party policy provides more homeless people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e363	It is quite right that the representative Holmås lodges with, that the Progress Party is opposed to socialism. He refers to these two cities, and it is clear that there are major challenges both in Bergen and Oslo. I also showed that with the Progress Party’s alternative state budget, Bergen would receive 165 million. kr more and Oslo 362 million. kr more than with the Government's budget. It would probably help to solve some of the challenges that I know our people in Oslo and Bergen are working on. But one has to get the tools to do it. With more transfers, which are important, and increased framework conditions in some areas, I am absolutely sure that these cities are going in the right direction, and that this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e368	The progressing party writes in its comments in the preamble that ‘the pattern of the day’s residence is a result of the past functioning of the market’, and that it will also be history in the future. First of all, I want to dispute the writing of history, simply because today's housing patterns are also a result of a lot of politics – of political choices and a desire to develop good communities across the country. So my first question is whether the Progress Party recognises that today's patterns of living are also a result of politics, and that politics is important for developing opportunities for good life. The second is on the understanding of what leads to the greatest value creation in total in this country. The resources are largely in the districts, and if we are to make the best possible use of these resources in total, good communities are needed. Is it not going to be backwards to abdicate in regional and district policy, as the Progress Party does, and should not the need for policy be simply recognised in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e377	I read a little about the question that one has an unbounded admiration for the potential of politics for governance and detailed governance, and that it should sort out all the challenges. Progress party doesn't believe it. Of course, we do not ignore the fact that political will and decisions affect things in society, that is the case. But we didn't think it was preferable to use political decisions too much to delineate construction or such things. We think this is going to happen as much as possible in a natural development. That's what we think would be most resilient. We believe that will be what will create the most satisfaction and the best result. When it comes to districts, large resources are involved, and it is important to facilitate their development in a good way – both in oil and fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e386	The municipality structure for 2010 is based on the income system of the government of Stoltenberg II for the municipal sector, which was introduced in 2009. When the income system was examined, the Right took several initiatives to ensure broad political agreement on the income system in order to ensure a more predictable, simple and fair system. However, the government chose to adopt a system which received only full support from the government parties. As this system deviates significantly from the right-hand option, it is very difficult and complicated to promote our alternative system in all areas. The government of Stoltenberg II has left the goal of funding the municipalities by 50 pst. of own tax income. The right considers that the target still needs to be 50 p.m., and that the municipal taxpayer should be higher as a result, as the basis through the income system has now changed and proposals for higher taxpayers will have different distributive effects than under the previous system. I will therefore refer to the main features of our alternative income system and limit the proposal to propose to maintain the system of returning parts of the corporate tax to the municipalities. It is important that municipalities retain parts of the corporate tax locally. It provides an important basis for municipalities to pursue a positive and forward-looking industrial policy. This position was supported by both the NHO and KS hearings in the context of a new income system. So the right-hand side is going to be 4.25 pst. the company tax is returned to the municipalities. Municipalities that facilitate the development of businesses and the creation of new jobs should be rewarded for this, not penalised. The government's plans for the municipal sector in 2010 are a sober and tight scheme that will require conversion and cut off from the municipalities. The economic balance that the Government announced in its first government statement that the municipalities would achieve is further away than ever. If municipalities are to be able to improve the provision of welfare within this framework, they need to streamline their operation and focus on improving the quality of services within the same economic framework. In 2005, the government of Stoltenberg II took over a local government sector with expenditure under control, with growing revenue, and which was financially able to put off more than 3pst. to future investments and unsafe times. Now, the municipal sector, except for Oslo, experiences a negative operating result for the first time, which means the need for cut and conversion. The government does not do enough to assist the municipalities in the difficult situation or to mitigate the expectation crisis it has created. On the contrary, the Right believes that the Government continues to give the impression that the action space in the municipalities is larger than what is real. It's just to take care of the locals of the past few weeks. In the municipality according to the municipality, it now tightens up. More than 100 schools are closed, and the cuts go right into the core activities of municipalities. In the red-green lighthouse Trondheim, the economy is on the rim and the mood on the bench after the budgetary conciliation that was recently concluded between the red-greens. In the right, there is the need for a community reform that ensures more freedom and greater responsibility for local communities. The right will therefore carry out a comprehensive task and municipal reform that will provide better services and larger and more robust municipalities. The closure of the county council, the stimulation of community mergers, a reduction in the number of county councils and the limitation of the county council’s ability to review municipal decisions, to review legality and procedural complaints will be part of this reform. The welfare community faces major challenges. We need innovation and innovation in the public sector to ensure sustainable well-being. New operational solutions and active and modern employer policies are required if the objective of a good and efficient public sector is to be achieved. More and more fall out of the labour market. The way out of work is too short, and the way back has become too long. Annual work losses due to disability pension, temporary disability benefit, rehabilitation, disability, unemployment and ordinary measures increased by 25 000 to 595000 annual works from 2007 to 2008. There was an increase in the number of unemployed and sick leave that contributed to this increase. Measured as a proportion of the working-age population, the number of yearly works lost increased by 0.3 pst. to 18.6 pst. in 2008. In the health and social sectors, sick leave is highest, with 9.6 pst. Of course, this is a major impact on the local government sector. The right has provided a budget for new growth and safe enterprises, a boost to education and research and a boost to transport. The central task of the state is to facilitate people in businesses and institutions to function and create values for themselves and society. Enterprises and communities are calling for more resources on the road and for education and research to facilitate growth in local communities. Therefore, these areas are given priority in combination with an economic policy which ensures the foundation of existing business. Already now, we see that the government does not comply with the appropriations they have promised through the national transport plan. The allocation of the main roads is too low and the commitment to road safety is too weak. The right voted against the State’s discharge by transferring the national roads to the county municipalities. We are afraid that these will deteriorate further, not because the states are depriving it, but because there is too little money coming from the state. In our opinion, good communications are the best district and regional policies. That is why we are proposing to reduce the regional development line in the counties by 800 million. kr and set off for road use. In the right, there is a need for a stronger focus on the integration of those who choose to live in Norway. It is important to use the first phase after someone has come to the country to stay, to increase language and social education and inclusion in working life. It is important that measures for increased integration target women and children in particular. Right wants to strengthen the introduction work. In its alternative proposal for the 2010 state budget, the Right proposes inter alia: to provide participants in introduction courses with children of kindergarten age with free nursery facilities. It is also proposed to extend the provision of language mapping for all four-year-olds – for the whole country. When a reader of language mapping from both the IMFI and the Government, I find it very strange to see that the government now chooses to cut this out completely. In fact, I find no other reason – it is not stated explicitly either – than that they want all children to go to kindergarten politically, because that is what they think is best for the children. So all those who don't go to kindergarten or go to kindergarten will start with a disability when they start school. But after hearing the representative Holmås’ posts, where he described himself as a ‘child care founder’, I can see that the red-green government will force parents to send the children to kindergarten. Then it is strange that someone punishes the children by removing the tool, which is language training monitoring. Language mapping is a tool used to identify needs. Perhaps kindergartens will be one tool that can be used, as a result of monitoring. In any case, free core time could benefit someone, and it is not given that it reaches those who should be reached. In the right, it is important to facilitate the inclusion of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees in the whole family. An important means of achieving this is free childcare services for this group, provided that both mother and father participate in the scheme, or are in work or education. This will facilitate the integration of women and children into Norwegian society. Basic Norwegian skills are crucial for the success of children in Norway. Therefore, it is important that we catch up with all children who have language problems at an earlier time than today. We therefore want the system of language mapping to become nationwide and to develop the system in line with the knowledge gained as a result of the evaluations carried out. It is the municipalities that have the primary responsibility for the introduction work. Right-wing continue to want grants for municipal introduction services, and I am pleased that a broad majority now ask that the Norwegian multicultural value building centre, in Drammen, continue to receive support for its ground-breaking work of facilitating immigrants who want to start their own business. What is frightening is that such a successful measure, which costs so little, was not found worth a single penny in next year's budget. On the contrary, inclusion work should be filled with this type of positive action. The government has assumed that there will be 18 500 asylum seekers in 2010. Since 2005, the number of asylum seekers has increased from 5 500 to about 500. 18,000 this year. In the right, it is considered necessary to tighten up asylum policy in order to reduce the number of groundless asylum seekers in Norway. We will therefore be promoting several concrete proposals which will involve a more stringent asylum policy. In our alternative state budget, the estimated amount of asylum seekers is reduced by 5 000, but we are promoting proposals that will contribute to this, including: proposals to reverse the government's liberalisation of asylum policy, to establish more return agreements, to increase the maintenance requirements for family reunification and to provide information in countries from which most groundless asylum seekers come. At the same time, an instruction authority for the Government towards UNE is proposed on principle issues. In addition, the government is asked to review the procedures for the forwarding and follow-up of criminal offences resulting from the proceedings and the asylum interview in UDI and UNE to the State Attorney. The Minister of Justice Storberget has now begun to show good tact, by sending out groundless asylum seekers and by starting work on return – to Iraq, among others. – but this must not be a stunt, this must be followed up throughout the period. Finally, I address the Right proposal and the proposal we have with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e432	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e437	In the last ten years, company tax has gone like a bouncing ball between state and municipality, with a shifting majority in Stortinget. All in 2000 the Technical Calculation Committee concluded that State corporation tax gave more fairer distribution between municipalities. It has no documented impact on industrial development. Nevertheless, the Right wants a rematch, even though the tax-deprived municipalities are losing on new municipalisation. In Greece and my home country, Buskerud, will, among other things, municipalities such as Obere Eiker and Lower Eiker, with tax of only 87 pst. and 81 pst. of the average, come out worse with a new conversion, while they earned on the previous one. My question to Greece is: Has he, as a Buskerud politician, consulted with his party traps, including the Right-wing rapporteurs of the two Eiker municipalities, on the proposal for a new municipal company tax? If so, were they happy to get even lower tax revenue than they already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e444	I see, from the replicator list, that it's of their own man to have it! Of course, as a representative of Buskerud, I have consulted the rapporteurs of all the municipalities in the whole of the Lower Busherud that are now right-wing. It's a continuous right-belt now from Oslo to Flesberg. This shows that our policies clearly win a reverberation not only with the rapporteurs, but with the broad teams of the people. We want municipalities to be active drivers of economic development. We have a desire to give municipalities greater freedom, less detailed regulation and less designation. The transfer of company taxes to municipalities may, of course, be negative for some municipalities in a start-up phase, but at the same time there will be a sign that those municipalities will operate active business development. And when KS, which includes all Norwegian municipalities, has supported this in its hearing opinions, I think that the Workers' Party should also reconsider its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e453	The representative of Greece will receive questions from representatives from other counties, but the next representative is Per Olaf Lundtigen – then the representative Heikki Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e456	The representative is a little liberal when he says from Oslo to Flesberg, but there's Kongsberg in between, and there's a working party rapporteur. But he may be pursuing Right-wing policy, based on the views of the representative. I want to follow up on the question of the income system and why not the representative of Greece can say the same to his rapporteurs in Upper Eiker and Lower Eiker on the income system. It's a big weakness that one can't be a guy to say the same thing out there among people like one says here from the Storting's pulpit. But that was not my main point, it was the community reform, greater freedom and greater responsibility. Its core is the centralization of power and greater distance between citizens and management. There's very little talk of social costs in the context of municipalization. In Buskerud, sick leave in Hemsedal is 4.7 p.m., while in Lower Eiker it is about 8.2 p.m. Why can't the Right not draw up the good examples of social costs that we find in a number of outlying municipalities, which have a close distance between citizens and management and small social costs for the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e465	When I mentioned ‘from Oslo to Flesberg’, I had put in the new road that should be between Hokksund and Svene, because then you could drive straight to Flesberg. That being said, Hemsedal is a star example. Many of the hallingdal municipalities are good examples of small municipalities that see that they need to cooperate. The last thing that's happened now is that the child protection throughout Hallingdal is assembled and located to Ål. It happens in areas by area. When I studied State Science, Hallingdal was brought forward as an area with special emphasis on inter-municipal cooperation. It simply means, as far as the representative from Lundteigen is concerned, that with the cooperation reform that is now coming, we need to find good solutions that will make the municipalities robust, but at the same time be able to cooperate across the municipal borders. We have not put any final thanks in terms of what Kommune-Norge should look like, but we want more freedom for the municipalities – greater right of self-determination.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e475	It's a little strange that when we – the government parties – set up with 3 million. kr and move them to the Norwegian multicultural value creation centre, so that they get money from the state, is cheered from Trond Helleland, but the possibility of county councils to support under value creation projects regionally has thus the Right fully intended to crush. When we see the need for value creation around the districts, and how local municipalities, in cooperation with county municipalities, have a commitment and responsibility, and take responsibility, just to make sure that jobs are strengthened, opportunities for businesses to establish themselves, the possibility for entrepreneurs to come up with their ideas, it becomes strange to say that here is the Right Policy to cut down on value creation, while calling instead for the state to set up similar projects. Isn't this just a rash of Right Hatred against the County Council more than sensible politics?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e482	It is difficult to hate a job where I myself am employed – I have leave from the county municipality. I have no hatred for the county council, but what we have seen is that when you are around the country – as the representative Holmås has explained that he has been – ask representatives from the municipalities, both ordinary citizens and the business community and others who are concerned with regional development, whether they want county development funds or better roads, the answer is clear. What people want is better communication, stronger commitment to transport and infrastructure. It is possible SV is the only party where there is no struggle for road resolutions at all county meetings – in other parties it is. This is because people in the districts have seen that good communication is the most important thing for good development in their region. Then it is the best regional policy, and then the Right does something that is unknown to SV, namely to prioritise. We give priority to road betting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e492	A secure community economy is very important to the Center Party, precisely because it is a foundation for the good life of the communities where people live. Therefore, the contribution from the previous period is continued in this period, with this State budget. However, many municipalities are experiencing challenges now when budgets are to be used together, despite large growth in revenue. This is due to growth in tasks and increased expectations. The only answer to the challenges of municipalities in the future is not in increased appropriations. In the coming period, the whole public sector will need to focus more on efficiency and on change. It's not just negative, it also gives some possibilities, as the possibility of creativity related to new solutions. But there are also great opportunities in the budget that have been presented. The government presented before the summer Cooperation Reform, a reform that gives people a better and more complete health service where they live. It is, in my view, one of the most important reforms that have been put forward for a long time, representing a paradigm shift in the thinking of Norwegian health policy. The reform will confront municipalities with major cooperation challenges, both between themselves and against health businesses, for the construction of a new professional environment and for the establishment of new services. Without the success of local authorities in this work, there will be no reform. It is therefore good that money is allocated to this in the budget. More and more of the municipal tasks are being solved through various forms of inter-municipal cooperation, and the cooperation reform will reinforce this image. In this context, I think it is important to use the opportunity to also discuss the perspective of democracy in local communities. It is important that municipal tasks can also be directly verified and controlled in the future, through the choice of citizens. It is also important that responsibilities can be directly placed and controlled. Active regional and regional policies are essential to resolve the great potential for growth and value creation in this fantastic country. It is to a large extent in the districts that our resources lie, and the prerequisite for being able to extract them lies in well-functioning communities around. It requires active policies – not to prevent change and change, but simply to create the best conditions for growth and prosperity and good life for the whole country where people live. There are more people who have been involved in free elections and who have excessive faith in rural and regional policy policies. Freedom of choice also requires choice, and without a good service offer and without a well-functioning labour market throughout the country, this freedom of choice will not really exist. One of the main challenges for society lies in successful integration policies. The Swiss referendum that resulted in a ban on minarites reminds us that the fight for fundamental human rights in Europe has not been won once and for all. It also reminds us that the outcome of a policy of integration that is not good enough is not enough to live with. In other words, it's not an opportunity to fail. In addition to what is our common approach to this field, which is about money, action and system, I believe it is more important now than it has been in the past to focus more on a common value base in an increasingly different Norway, in other words, a stronger value focus in the integration and societal debate. In Norway, freedom of religion and expression, democracy and respect for individuals apply. This must also be communicated clearly – not only to those who choose to come to Norway but also to ourselves. A consciousness around this we're all well aware of. It is only by security and trust — a minimum common multiple of values — that we can really benefit from the power of diversity, and this trust and security is lacking in Norway and Europe today. It is therefore a great job and a great responsibility that lies with all of us in this field in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e513	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e516	I understand that Borten Moe meant that there might not be such a great need for more money for the municipalities, that there was a greater need for reorganisation and efficiency in the municipalities. I then wonder how to make the municipalities more efficient. When we read newspapers today, we can't find a single one where we can't see that municipalities are discussing and proposing the closure of alley balls and the fall in the number of addendums. Today, we have a situation where the vast majority of the municipalities around us have a crew of sick people who are so small that they almost run in their entirety. Is Borten Moe satisfied with the economic situation in the municipalities, and does he really think that there is more efficiency in the areas they now have, which is the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e525	I did not say that we should not add financial muscles to the municipalities. We'll do that through this budget. That's well over $8 billion extra compared to last year's situation. But I said that the only answer to the challenges the municipality is not increasing resources, it's also thinking about how to do things. I am convinced that it is in transition and I am convinced that it is space and the possibility of efficiency. Let me point to a field that I believe for society will obviously lead to a large space and a great opportunity for efficiency and better resource use, and it is precisely in the Interaction Reform, where funds can be used in a far better way overall, both reducing cost consumption and, not least, establishing better and safer healthcare for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e532	The county councils now take over most of the national road network around the country, approx. 17 000 km. Only DKK 1 billion in excess of the 2009 level has been allocated to this important administrative reform. As the Central Party is, does the representative Ola Borten Moe think that this administrative reform, as it is now intended to finance, is a district-friendly and district-promoting reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e539	I believe that the combination of the increased funds that have been allocated to the county council and the fact that the county council has been given these tasks and has the opportunity to borrow money to implement the projects will result in a significant increase in activity on our national road network. So the answer is clear and clear yes – this is a good district reform. It's going to lead to a significant increase in activity and a significantly better standard on our national road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e544	The representative Borten Moe has been on a study trip in Denmark and has looked at the tightening up of asylum and immigration policies there, and has seen many positive things that we should do in Norway, as I can see. Now we have seen that the government, apparently at least, has launched an offensive to send back people who do not have the right to stay in Norway. In addition to what has now been done, what action does the representative, Mr Moe, want the Government to take to speed up the return work and bring down the influx of groundless asylum seekers to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e549	It's an unmistakable question to answer in 1 minute. But I really believe that there is a rather broad and common approach in this room to the need to bring down the influx, the need for faster processing and the need to improve the flow and efficiency of return work. I don't feel that reality is different from all, most of the members of this room. Later today, we are going to deal with a new law on foreigners where there is a unanimous vote by the Committee. So we're not going to ignore, Greece, that we can come to quite an agreement on these things eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e555	It's nice that people agree, but even consensus has to be communicated through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e558	Municipalities are the main provider of basic welfare services in the community. This requires a predictable and good local economy. Something that does not bear the mark of predictability is the government's management of the reimbursement arrangements for resource-intensive services. In the municipality proposal for 2008, the Government commended the fact that they had improved the compensation scheme that would create predictability in the municipalities associated with this important service. In the municipal bill submitted to us, there were no signs of any changes to this scheme. Therefore, the disappointment was great when the government proposed to increase the impact point from NOK 835000 to NOK 865000 and to reduce the compensation rate from 85 pst. to 80 pst. One thing is that you have sent a bill to the municipalities of 300 million. kr – what is much worse is that it has been decided to hit a very vulnerable group of people, because the government does not believe that there will be more and better resource-intensive services around the municipalities when the government acts so unpredictablely. The Christian People's Party listened to the recordings that came from the municipalities during the Committee's open consultation on the state budget. We took the consequences of it and promoted in our alternative budget proposals to continue the scheme at the level it was at last year. This year, the community structure is no better than it has to be. It is a tight budget that does not increase the action space of the municipalities. The government has created expectations that the municipalities cannot meet with the framework laid down in the 2010 State budget. It must be frustrating for local politicians around our country to take the lead in the policy pursued by the Government. It is those who meet the inhabitants face to face and have to explain why they lay down schools, kittens in care and psychiatry, and do not equip constructions and facilities with large maintenance kits. On national television, state councils are asking municipalities not to cut the school sector. But they have to cut anyway. And then I think more people with me are asking this question: Where does the Council of State think we should cut? In my contribution, I must also be allowed to express a concern related to the administrative reform and the county councils’ new responsibility for most of today’s national road network – approx. 17 000 km. We have a large maintenance run on the roads all over the country, and I have to say I reacted very strongly when I read the municipal proposal from the Government. Here you run from the road bill and leave the county councils in place. Only one additional billion are earmarked for this beyond the 2009 level – to be allocated to all counties. It's not enough to take back the decay on the gravel roads around our country once. For the Christian People's Party, investment in safe roads is an important road safety measure. That is why we proposed an additional billion in the context of the municipal proposal. I'm seriously worried about the bill the state is now easing on the counties. Another issue that has always been important for the Christian People's Party is the voluntary sector. This is not least important when it comes to work related to immigration and integration. The voluntary organisations in this field have a unique competence and a network of which the public must make more use. They are fellow human beings and the link between the individual immigrants and the state. For many immigrants and refugees, the first years in Norway are tough. It's a lot to get into. When you don't know the Norwegian system well, it can be hard to figure out. The Christian People's Party is in favour of a system of refugee guides in all municipalities. The guide will help to provide information on who, what and where of language training, health checks and kindergartens. We believe that this must be done in cooperation with the voluntary organisations. In general, the investment in crowns and ears should also be increased to these organisations. So the Christian People's Party has added 8 million. kr extra in its alternative budget. The parties to the Government have found NOK 300000 to increase this budget line. It's a piece from our own proposal, but I still think it's positive, and I hope that it can be a signal that we can wait for further increases in next year's budget. I hope the red-green can write it behind the ear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e576	On the civil side, there are shared opinions on how to get good structures in the municipalities of our long-term country. Right wants to force municipalities to merge, while the Christian People's Party aligns itself with intercommunal cooperation. A challenge in intermunicipal cooperation is that this can put democracy to the test through elected local governments. We see that intercommunal companies and regional councils are used, where decisions are removed from local governments. My question to the representative Bekkevold is this: How will the Christian People's Party ensure good democratic governance even where inter-municipal cooperation is chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e583	Intermunicipal cooperation may be important in many areas, as municipalities have had many tasks to do. What is important is that these intercommunal companies do not become so-called closed rooms, where important decisions are taken at the head of the elected people. What is important is that you have a good anchor in the elected bodies. I think that in the case of intercommunal companies and intercommunal cooperation, this is possible to do without it at the expense of democracy. It's the Christian People's Party's attitude to this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e588	The Christian People's Party has joined a number of government parties' comments on the field of immigration and integration. We're happy about that. We interpret it as an invitation to future cooperation in this important field. I am curious about how the representative Bekkewold will characterise the refugee and asylum policy we see the outlines of the Right – and in particular the Advance Party – budget proposals, and what he believes is the difference between the immigration and integration policies of the Government Party and the Right and the Immigration and Integration Policy of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e595	I had actually drawn a line on the Chief Speaker of the Advancement Party, but I realized that I was very much in line right when it came to it, just to point out some of the differences in the asylum and immigration policy of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party's asylum and immigration policy. It is clear that government parties are also in favour of a tightening up – a tightening for which we criticise the Government in some areas. What I can say is that there is a great distance between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in terms of asylum and immigration policy. What is good, and what we have joined in the remarks of the government parties, is that they will have a realistic budget in terms of asylum and immigration policy. We're also very concerned about that. We do not want to take the budgetary form that the Progress Party is doing in this area, which is very unrealistic, at least if we are concerned with integration and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e602	First we just say that I am not so worried that there will be enough money for the county councils, so that they will manage the maintenance seat suspension, but it will take some time. That's why we're adding the extra billion, which is just going to be useful over time. Together with the interest compensation mechanism that we have set up in the budget now, there will be room for county councils to deal with the delays in maintenance that the representative rightly points out. So in our opinion, we've taken that into account. I want to ask you a question, because I was in Grimstad municipality. There I met the rapporteur and the councilman. They said that in the context of the issue of resource-intensive users, they had been visited by consultants, who had offered to show them how to move money that would otherwise go under the ordinary means of operation, under the resource-intensive user scheme. They had said no. But it is precisely this type of municipality that is now taking the initiative to clean up. Does not the representative agree that cleaning is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e609	In some municipalities, cleaning work may be needed to see if it is possible to move money from one area to another. The point is, the frames are too small. There are feedback from some municipalities now. I can talk on behalf of my own home town, Skien, which has got an extra charge of 6-7 million. kr. What saves the situation right now is that they're going to be allowed to keep some of the tax revenue. You don't know exactly what it's like, but it's only for 2009. This has not been proposed in the 2010 budget. That in some municipalities there may be ways to solve this is okay. In general, however, we are receiving feedback, including from the KS, that this proposal in the context of resource-intensive services was an unusually poor proposal from the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e614	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e617	The left is not represented in the municipal committee, which we have said is a great pity. However, we would like to make our comments, especially in the area of the municipality, to the position that is now available. The government is right that there has been a growth for municipalities in recent years. It has actually been quite large in some fields. The big problem is that, most of it — in fact, everything — is linked to tied tasks and tied funds. There has been a dramatic increase in the proportion that the municipalities do not control under this government. There are several danger signals in the municipality that the growth of loans is increasing and creating more and more unpredictable expenditure for the entire municipal sector. These are scary images in view of future developments, when we know that interest is probably going to rise. For the Left, the struggle for the local economy is not just about crowns, but about getting the space for action and the freedom to decide on the crowns that you actually got from the state. Then I think you have to be honest and admit that the municipal structure we are facing today is not designed for the tasks we are facing today. I think that over time it will weaken the rule of the people, as the background to some of these parties in this room was actually due, if you don't look at the municipal structure in a more offensive way. There's a lot of models to assume. But it is clear that in the future the struggle will be about the good minds, the good organizers and the good structures. Then the municipalities must not be transformed into small teams, with an expert board of directors and a board of municipal companies to take over for us. In the alternative budget of the Left, one of the major fields we want to raise is the fight against poverty. Many of those things go on the possibilities of the municipalities. One is to increase social assistance rates to a fixed minimum standard, which we may think is an important measure to reach those who have the most misguided advice. The second is that we've lost many of the old functions that we had, which were often run by non-governmental organizations, like, for example. the health care of my childhood. Many of the traditional, good institutions that had a great function in the growth of us today, 40-year-olds, lose today's children, because they don't exist. That is why we have funds for both more specialised educators and more school nurses in the action package that reaches exactly those who are outside the system. Then I have to link some comments to that with the dwelling. We are increasing the housing allowance in our alternative budget, but today I have submitted a proposal that I hope will be a pleasant pat on the shoulder, a pleasant, small push, to the Government. It's about rent regulation. I don't think there are so many parties here in the hall that you said you're in order for the rent regulation to continue. Obviously, it gets a lot of negative results, especially for some old ones, who get thrown out of houses they've lived all their lives. A unanimous Health and Social Committee in Oslo City Council has asked for a little better time to establish a regulatory framework that will address the specific issues. I mean, Oslo has to have that time. There's no need to throw people in their 90s on the streets, and I hope that the Government and the Oslo Municipality can find together the code that reaches those who are to be reached, and that you should not ride your captors or make this a political struggle between the city and the government, but that we actually get a grip here for them. In addition, the Left has a number of other proposals on housing, both to extend start-up loans from 20 to 30 years – which I really expected the Government to come with, but which they have not made – on home purchases, on'sloppy housing', which is for those with poor housing, and that the municipality should make better plans for the social profession. I also wanted to talk about both child protection and privacy, with that I do not have time within my framework. But I would like to address the three proposals from the Left that have been distributed in the Chamber, so that they too will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e637	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e642	As I have seen Left, innovation and support for the creation of new businesses are very important. The left was also joined by the majority in the note to Chapter 551, entry 60, grants to county councils for regional development, in the treatment of the 2009 State budget last year. Among other things, there is an emphasis on: the importance of the local government itself prioritizing funds on the basis of regional challenges in order to ensure new value creation. Then I am surprised when I see in the 2010 alternative budget of the Left that the same item is referred to as ‘red-green symbol money’, and it is proposed to be cut. For me, it's important that the Left solves what has changed so dramatically in one year. Maybe the representative Skei Grande can help me with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e651	Creating alternative government budgets means that a priority. We've seen that this doesn't have much effect. We have not seen the enormous effects this would have on these developments. We want the county council to have a great deal of freedom of action within the means available to them, but many of the means of symbolism in this area have not had the effect we wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e658	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e661	The red-green government has raised the municipal economy by NOK 41 billion since we took over. The local government sector has shown its trust and has delivered it. Since the last quarter of 2005, the number of employees in the municipal sector has increased by over 62 000 from the fourth quarter of 2005 to the third quarter of 2009. The dietary feeding of the municipal sector by the Bondevik II government has been replaced by a much better supply for both young and older people. There are far more warm hands and wise heads in the care services, in the schools and in the kindergartens around the country. I'm proud of that. It is human beings who provide services every day, which are making municipalities good and growthable communities too small and large. The goal, if we close, must be activity – human, service – not Right’s calculator economy that has net operating performance as its target. It is not difficult to obtain a good net operating result if a non-adapted people, if it is not possible to increase the activity, if it is not possible to improve the quality of services in the local government sector. Next year, the Government is adding $8 billion to a bet on local well-being. 4.2 billion kr comes as growth in free income. School and care for the elderly are given a lift. There are rooms for 2 500 new nursing homes and sick homes in 2010. In schools and children's protection there is room for several years' work. The county councils will be strengthened from 1 January by taking over important tasks from the state, not least responsibility for other national roads and associated ferries. One billion of the growth in free resources, in addition to the sector previously transferred, is due to the new trade tasks. The municipal sector manages a large proportion of its resources for the benefit of its inhabitants. The sector's total revenue for next year is NOK 333 billion. It is true that 2008 was a demanding year for the municipal sector, but the financial framework for the current year and next year facilitates a better balance in the economy and the development of welfare services. The latest report to the Technical Calculation Committee for Municipal and Municipal Economics, TBU, also sees growth in municipal and county services this year. The selection expects the local economy to improve in 2009 and estimate the net operating performance of the sector to around 2,5 pst. in 2009. It's a 2008 reinforcement. The selection also states that the growth of free revenues facilitates increased service provision beyond demographic developments. The government wants to give people real freedom to choose where they want to live, ensure equivalent living conditions and make use of resources throughout the country. We want to maintain the main features of the bust pattern. It requires efforts in several sectors. We deliver in the transport area, where the government has made a solid change of pace both for road and for rail. National transport plan will reduce travel time and distance constraints for people and businesses when the plan is implemented. We deliver in district policy. We are strengthening growth in rural areas, including: by facilitating new activities and strengthening those already established. This strengthens the counties as development actors with more resources for regional development, for business support, for business development organisation and for the development of attractive sites. The government has several stakes in district policy. We're going in for $25 million. kr to a new investment in ‘Bolyst’, which will stimulate new meeting places and further develop knowledge of what is needed for people to thrive and to be conscripts. We're proposing $30 million. kr to local community development to improve the planning and implementation of development projects by municipalities, and to become the best host municipalities for local business. We give priority to entrepreneurship. We're increasing the promise of new growth of municipal nutrition funds by 30 million. kr for both measures. We want service there people cage, and strengthen the nearby shops by 26 million. kr. We want infrastructure that can provide growth and development, including: it shall be worth 100 million. kr to build forward-looking broadband next year. The government significantly strengthens its efforts for a social housing policy. It provides more possibilities for a safe home. As of 1 July, we have introduced a new code for the stowage. A total of 50,000 more come under the scheme. In 2010, the conversion will lead to an increase in the cost of 800 million. kr and a total promise of NOK 3.6 billion. The Home Bank is the most important traveler in the fight for everyone to have a safe place to bow. The government has in several fields within that sector strengthened the budget in a respectable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e689	It's going to be line change. The President makes it clear that when there are five lines, the mathematical distribution implies that the Advance Party can have two lines, right two lines and the Christian People's Party one line. However, one premise is that the lots that give rise to it have drawn two lines. If not, it will be given that the lot that would not normally have a line, that is to say, the left hand side, will have a line if none of the two large lots on the opposition side have signed up to two – this for information because there have been some questions about it during the previous line changes with access to up to five lines. So that means that we're going to go into the line change – first Gjermund Hagesets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e696	The birthplace of the municipal minister was that the municipalities were better off, and it was also a long list of all the great things that Regeringa has done to the municipalities. But I didn't realize that she mentioned what a grip a had done when it came to resource-requiring services. So it wasn't on that list. I get it, because here are some municipalities that have built up a very good supply when it comes to resource-requiring services, others haven't. Now it is such that the state even reduces its share from 85 pst. until 80 p.m., and roll it over to the municipality. One also increases the entry point much more than the increase in price. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State believe that this too will be very negative for the supply of this group for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e701	When it comes to this offer, one, like it was in the period of progress supported by Bondevik II, will spend 800 million next year. kr more for resource-requiring users, even with the 300 million reduction. kr included in the budget. Then choose the question back to the representative host: What kind of offer could you give to the municipalities? $300 million. kr is one third of the increase in tax growth, the additional tax increase, which the municipalities receive next year. I mean, even with that change, in the system that now runs, there is the possibility of giving a good and worthy supply to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e706	The representative Hageseter has asked for another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e709	First, I want to tell you that the Progress Party was not part of the Bondevik II government. It probably knows the stas wire very well. We subsidiaryly support some of these budgets, but I thought that the government should start taking responsibility for its own policies, instead of referring to Bondevik II all the time. The progressing party got a pass on a lot of things and got a little bit better, but we're not behind what Bondevik II did. My question, to which I did not feel that I had any answers, is still: Does it not mean that one weakens the state part of a split layer when it comes to resource-requiring services, and overturns this over to the municipalities, that the supply for years to come for this weak group, these at the bottom of the table, becomes significantly worse? Doesn't the Council of States fear it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e718	It is true that the Progress Party was not part of the Bondevik II government, but the Progress Party was part of the basis that made this government both see the light of the day and be seated, and it knows the representative Gjermund Hageseter very well. When it comes to resource-requiring users, the budget, i.e. consumption, increases by DKK 1 billion from 2008 to 2009. However, growth is also high in the next year, although a budget reduction has occurred. I repeat what I said instead, which is my answer, that this frame provides a basis, along with the income growth of the municipalities. This is the addition of the borders that will be given to each municipality. It provides a basis for a good and worth offering.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e726	Then the President makes it clear that when the representative Hagesetter got his second line right after the first, it is the practice that the Presidency has discussed and concluded that we are going to practice, because we are going to have the opportunity to have a more lively debate. That's why a lot of people who are entitled to two lines, they get two consecutive lines. Next replicator is Michael Tetzschner. I'll then make it clear, in line with the information I initially gave, that besides that, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has drawn himself to line, and then Stepe Skei Grande, because the Right has not asked for two lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e731	National Council of Navarsete had a little visit to the Right – with a calculator approach. Now it's on the Council's website that she's responsible for guidance and control regarding the financial management of municipalities, so without talking about money, we're not going to get there. The municipality of Trondheim was highlighted in the previous municipal election campaign by the red-green as the actual exhibition window for red-green politics. So in the meantime, a huge current deficit has been incurred and financed by a huge build-up of debt. Against this background, I allow myself to ask the Council of State: Is the Council of State concerned about the economic development of the municipality of Trondheim? And if she is, what guidance has she given the municipality? And, will the council consider putting Trondheim's municipality under administration? And in that case, will it happen before or after the municipal elections in 2011?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e743	The people elected in Trondheim have shown great responsibility through the budget they have now sewn together and were some over. They do what good local politicians do. They adapt operations according to the frames they have. They're going to reduce their debt, and they're going to have a level of operations to provide both good services and a good economy in the future. There's a reason to give them credit for that. The South Trondheim County Council provides guidance to the municipalities, and I expect Trondheim to receive the guidance they need through the county councillor's good, good people. I have no plans to place Trondheim municipality under administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e750	The number of homeless people has increased dramatically just lately, and the situation here in Oslo is special. I know that our competent state council is occupied with this. In an interview in the evening post, she commented on this and pointed out that perhaps the financial crisis could also be a possible cause. Many of the homeless are people who, among other things, is struggling with major drug problems, and was probably barely in business before the financial crisis either. My question to the Council of State is, what will she do to meet the acute situation that is now? And what will she do in view of long-term measures for the homeless?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e759	I'm not sure how I was quoted at the Evening Post, but what I said was that we must now work to ensure that the financial crisis along with a possible growing interest rate and possibly growing unemployment does not also become a housing crisis. That was my point. I didn't point to the financial crisis as a direct reason why we have more homeless people. As I said – I got a little time in my post at the end – the Husbank is the most important traveler we have in housing policy – ensuring everyone one home. We now see that more people get housing support, so that more people can get housing allowances, and we also sympathize that we can have starting loans for more people who can get their own housing. Municipalities are responsible for securing people's heads. We have the responsibility, together with the municipalities, to provide the travelers who enable them to do the job. We've had a bet there, and we're going to have one in the future. It is an important area in the government's policy and in the poverty campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e766	I'll follow the same theme, sail if we're from two different parties – we can do it – and it's for homeless people. In Oslo, everyone is offered a place to live, but not everyone fits in with the offer they get, plus many people have a lack of living capacity – that is a bad word – and many cannot live in a normal housing environment. Then you have to have alternative offers. Such an offer is now being built and it is called ‘sloppy dwellings’. The Council of State has now been responsible for this for some time and has been able to address the problem. Does not the Council of State see that there is as much lack of funding for psychiatry and russian care that leads to the number of homeless people as having many good systems in the public sector to take care of them – because when you are unable to use it, you will still be in line for the homeless? After all, it's not primarily unemployment that brings people out into homelessness; it's mainly a rush and a psychiatry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e775	It is quite clear that the government’s strengthened commitment to drugs and psychiatry is important to ensure that fewer people get into a situation that nobody wants – of course the very least that it frames – that one becomes homeless. But when that happens, it's important that there are travelers who can help the municipalities get them back under the roof. Of course, there are those who don't want to – we also need to respect them. They don't exist if they don't want to have a dwelling. All the projects that have now been carried out in many municipalities are about housing. I later handed out the housing allowance a few days ago to the project FREE in Drammen, where they put help on a broad scale to tackle social life when they come out of prison. This is about housing, but it's also about leisure activities, it's about how to keep up with the economy, it's about getting friends and a social network. I have great faith in the broad approach that many municipalities are now putting forward in their work for the homeless. I want to be there and support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e783	The government's action in the field of immigration begins to produce results. The number of asylum seekers without a need for protection is falling, and this is important for several reasons. One is that capacity is released for better inclusion of persons to become. We're not in target here. First generation, as well as people born in Norway, fall outside school, work and leisure. The worst thing that can happen is that we get a classed society that follows ethnic dividing lines, where people with immigrant backgrounds have lower living conditions and lower participation in society than others. Rapid residence, improved language training, qualification, easier recognition of foreign education and skills are important keywords. At the same time, we have to be able to see the whole picture. The vast majority of immigrants participate in the labour market, are economically independent, master Norwegian and contribute to society. But there are differences in living conditions between immigrants and the rest of the population. On the positive side, we note that the differences have decreased in the last ten years. A new OECD report boasts of our introduction system and shows that we come out better than countries like Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. But it's not going to be a sleeping cushion. We do a lot. Five years in a row, we have an action plan for inclusion – now 890 million. kr – which must be seen together with the poverty action plan, of nearly DKK 4 billion. The question we have to ask is whether we get results from this effort. Immigrants are overrepresented among the poor. It is a challenge for the authorities, but also for the poor's own organisations, where the migrant perspective is virtually absent. We need a clearer immigration perspective in the fight against poverty. Poverty is linked to participation in employment. The availability of immigrants is higher, employment is lower. Only 24 pst. immigrant children live in families with two incomes. At the same time, it tells us that employment among immigrant women is low and that we also need a gender perspective in terms of inclusion. Bad advice keeps children out of leisure activities. It has consequences for participation even in adulthood, and it reproduces to the next generation. Many high-education immigrants have to take to heart low-paid jobs. It's bad for them, and it's bad for society. In Drammen, the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation has good results in establishing activities for highly educated immigrants who are tired of being social welfare recipients. In the setting the centre is secured further operation. Support is cross-political, and it provides room for thinking long-term and developing good practices through ongoing operations rather than thinking about ever-new projects. In this respect, I would like to ask the representative of Greece to consider whether proposal No. 29 can be converted into a transmission proposal, so that the agreement becomes as clear as possible. Knowledge is the way to better results. The integration and diversity directorate’s 2009 integration map lists important gaps in knowledge: why women have worse results after the introduction programme than men, why immigrants are strongly overrepresented among the long-term unemployed, more often overqualified, why immigrant youth is overrepresented among dropouts from secondary school, and how we can get an effective system for recording education. The European Commission Against Racism and Intolerance — a human rights commission under the Council of Europe — published in February this year its 4th report on Norway, with much of the same picture: progress, but much undone. At the same time, they shout a few warnings that we should listen to. They believe that our efforts are too fragmented, that we do not know enough about the effectiveness of our actions or the causes of differences between immigrants and others are due to prejudice, lack of knowledge, thoughtlessness or racist stereotypes. They also say that we lack data on direct and indirect discrimination. They found right-wing racism on the Internet, stereotypes in the media, generalization of Muslims, and what they call the overtones of xenophobia in the political debate. That's not good. I don't know if anyone feels hit, but someone should at least feel cold, because it's about our responsibility as politicians to hold a decent debate on immigration and inclusion. In the end, I would like to make a small comment on the Right's claim that there is now an end to the important language mapping of four-year-olds. That's not the case. It's on the contrary a false claim. The project is over, but experience and tools are now being incorporated into the education of health sisters and disseminated to health centres in all municipalities, just as it should be done when a project has been successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e802	The government's asylum policy is not working. It is not the Progress Party that says, but it is Norwegian research – the Institute for Societal Research – that sets out a research report that came last week. Over 15 months have passed since the government held a press conference with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and then Minister of Labour and Inclusion Dag Terje Andersen, where they launched so-called asylum restrictions. In the subsequent years, it has become quite clear that these restrictions on asylum have been announced, and have not had the extent or effect of the attempt to give the impression. In time, a number of so-called new restrictions on asylum have been introduced, but although some sensible wordings are available in Soria Moria II, it is clear now that the reduction in asylum has not worked. On the contrary, since the proposals for tightening up were launched last September, the number of asylum seekers has continued to increase. The government itself does not believe in its own policy. It does not do so when it continues to add 18 500 asylum seekers to the next year in the budget. It is reasonably clear that the policy pursued in this area is not working. Norway is still at the top of the world among the countries receiving most asylum seekers compared to the number of inhabitants. If asylum policy is to be tightened up, it is not useful to make minimal changes, for example: in relation to understanding and how to choose to comply with Dublin legislation. So it has to be much stronger. The naïve policy of today's government must be brought to an end. In its alternative state budget, the Progress Party has based itself on its alternative law on foreigners – and I hope that our policies can actually have opportunities to function. Then we would have had a dramatic reduction in the number of asylum seekers, especially those who are obviously groundless. We also had significant savings in the budget, because the truth is that today we are spending more money in this country in the foreign field – on immigration and integration – than we are doing in the police. We're using more in this area than we are doing, for example. on the agricultural holding. There is a rather special situation — this starts to cost a lot for taxpayers. When you pull the line forward, the development doesn't look particularly good. It is clear that the costs incurred in the first paragraph, i.e. when accepting asylum seekers, accommodate them, are a small proportion of the total costs incurred when very many are to be settled and integrated into Norwegian municipalities. But despite that, it's obvious that there's enormous explosive power within the government. That may be why – and in the light of that – we can understand that this policy does not depend on the rhetoric and, in fact, on what we observe. It turns out that a local SV representative in Bergen went out and almost accused his own government of pursuing a policy like the memory of Nazism. It tells a little about the explosiveity between the Workers' Party and the SV in immigration policy, and especially in the field of asylum. Integration policy is also a chapter by itself with the current government. There may well be a few areas where you have shown so little intelligence, so little intelligible thoughts, as what you record in the integration field during this government. A red thread – perhaps a red-green thread – from the Muhammad drawing in 2006 goes through proposals during this year, which is about police-hijab, which is about restricting fundamental rights and freedom of expression precisely for the sake of integration. This government is going to have a bad aftertaste in the face of fundamental principles and values. Luckily, the last two proposals, on police-hijab and what goes on restricting freedom of expression, have been stopped, in fact, by the fact that most people have said from above. But here lies the problem -- a government that doesn't see the obvious connection between the signals you send out on the one hand, and what integration is all about. It's such an obvious thing. If we go back and look at how we've historically evolved as societies – drawing the long lines – we know that we've made some fundamental choices up through the history that's placed us where we are today. We're a society in the Western cultural circle, where you may never have felt better in history. But that's because you've made some choices. One thing, of course, is that one has introduced free economy and strengthened ownership, but this civilization actually took a step out of the Middle Ages and into the enlightened society through the Age of Information and was able at some point to make a distinction between societies on the one hand and religion on the other. This is where this government has a fundamental problem, because it is not able to set the same boundaries for the cultural expression of Islam, as has been done in the past in relation to Christianity. This unprincipledness, which I am talking about, is such a double standard that is so clearly expressed in Norwegian integration policy. Because it's important to live together, when we get a more complex society of people with different religious backgrounds – a more diverse society, if you want – that we have some driving rules we're all agreed on, where we set some boundaries between religion, the private sphere and society, some rules that should apply equally to everyone, some inalienable rights all people should have. Then I am talking about freedom of expression, freedom of religion, equality, equality and democracy, the fundamental rights, where I also do not feel that, in the name of integration, we are willing to put in place resources and measures to ensure that the whole population is allowed to participate in them, including those who have migrated to Norway in recent years, and their descendants. However, there are changes in Europe – some people who drew it up earlier in the debate – we are about to have a counter-reaction to the naïve policy that has been pursued on the integration side of Europe. The tame majority, if you will, says from above. They say no to this inconsistent discrimination based on religion. People are more than their religion, people are more than their culture that you take with you. And they say "off" in Europe. It turns out that we've seen in Switzerland, that the Progress Party is not a supporter of. However, it shows the importance of a debate that a political climate across Europe, especially in Norway, has tried to suppress. Now people say from now on. People no longer accept this double standard. When you get to Norway, you also have to follow the rules and values that this society is based on, and religion is not in any way an excuse to resort to fundamental human rights. One cannot in the name of religion demand special adaptations in society. This doesn't accept people anymore, and when you say from now on and the counter-reaction comes, it's sadly extreme. The Progress Party has shown that we are the only party that has a realistic and complete approach to this problem area, as the other parties in this Chamber have not shown. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e829	The President wants to add that she does not accept special rights when it comes to going beyond speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e832	The budget chapters of the Municipal Committee are very exciting. In the municipal sector, a total of NOK 333 billion is spent – an impressive amount. After listening to the budget debates in this room during the weeks that have gone by, I am disabled that very much of our discussion goes on how much money is spent in a field, rather than what goals for service, for production or other benefits the money will realise. We need to turn the budget debates into not just a competition for who can spend the most money, but to spend the money we have, even better. The money at the disposal of the public comes from faceless sources, ordinary working people, and we must always be aware that all money has an alternative use. Yes, we often achieve more social well-being by letting people dispose of their own money more freely. During the financial debate, it was quite clear that we have a non-sustainable withdrawal from the oil fund. In addition to the ethically unacceptable by robbing our children's pigtails, problems of a pressing nature may also arise in the economy that threaten employment in the longer term. Therefore, perhaps more of the adjustment would have been done already in this year's budget, so the slowing down will not be so uncomfortable for the passengers later. It seems that this year's budget has the mark of being the last round before the bar closes. In fact, unlike the budget areas of some other committees, which are characterised by statutory expenditure increases, and therefore leave little freedom to the elected representatives to give priority to new activities, the area we are dealing with here today – the area of the municipal committee – contains issues where the degree of freedom is greater. We can, for example: do something about the municipal structure. It can change. We can do something with our states. The counties may be closed. Local authorities may also have greater freedom and responsibility to organise their activities more rationally. It is strange that the state does not also see the potential for efficiency in just playing on municipal self-government as part of accountability and improved resource use based on local knowledge. The right has put forward proposals that would contribute in this direction. We have suggested that company tax should be returned to the municipalities. This can also make the municipalities more interested in how the income side of society is structured, and where the municipality realizes that it also has a responsibility to work for local conditions for the business of which we all live. It would also have helped to make it aware that the task is not to stimulate by selective regional instruments, for example: regional growth funds, but to remove barriers created by the public sector itself. There may be conditions of establishment in the form of red tape, regulations, concession requirements, permits, appropriations, etc. Nor will we recommend that the municipality itself should take over business decisions on where to invest and on which products to invest. Our resistance to municipal food funds must also be seen in this context, because we do not want to have a distortion of competition either. The state can also modernise its forms of work and change. State and municipality are not just administrative tasks. They are also a party to employers and have in this context concluded countless, thousands, hundreds of thousands of private-law employment contracts. Both the formation of wages, negotiations, the right of management of employers and the general responsibility of employers could have been better used to promote more effective organisation and conversion. It's our impression that under the red-green government the conversion work has stopped in the public sector. The public has become increasingly expensive without it getting better. I leave the Danish social democrat Frank Jensen as a perhaps involuntary, but clear expression of what social democracy really thinks about resource use. He said during the Danish municipal elections, in a meeting with angry parents who complained about kindergarten offers, and not least about the quality: I am an economist at education, and there is simply something here that does not vote. Our institutions are among the most expensive in the country. Why is it so much dissatisfaction? The statement clearly demonstrates that, according to social-democratic dictionary, the word ‘priced’ is another word for ‘good’. Thus, the size must be more interested in the development of the effectiveness of the municipal sector. It's a word that some people think it tastes like calculator attitudes, because after red-green perception it looks like efficiency is perceived as cold decisions, boosted work pace, and the absence of humanity. Efficiency is simply not in those circles a popular measure or a honorary word. However, there are two reasons why efficiency should govern our decisions on appropriations in the municipal sector. Firstly, I believe that the aversion to efficiency and the concept of efficiency is largely based on misunderstandings. Efficiency means not primarily wear and sweat, but getting more well-being and higher value creation without increasing effort. If the resources are scarce, and we know that they are still when we talk to our colleagues in municipalities and counties, it must be inefficiency that requires specific ethical justification, while efficiency and efficiency improvement must be seen as a necessary and useful contribution to the realisation of good social governance and, for our fellow citizens, a good life. Secondly, the municipal sector is seizing a high and growing proportion of society’s resources, and much indicates that local government will continue to grow. Important reasons for this are, as is known, increased care needs due to an ageing population, and still low productivity developments in healthcare and education. I also believe that a clearer division of tasks between the State and the municipality can provide the basis for improved trust between the levels of government in Norway. The right, as you know, believes that one of the levels of government can be reduced. The state must also refrain from providing detailed standards to the municipalities and, as I said, bet more on municipal autonomy. My distinguished committee colleague, Ingelill Olsen, from the not-so-excellent Workers' Party, had something quite right in his statement. She mentioned this massive amount of NOK 333 billion, that it had an efficiency improvement of only 1 pst. will be a pretty large amount, $3 billion. That's a perfectly correct observation. But if there are tones estimated by the Workers' Party, I can at least promise the Right's contribution, so that together we find methods that just put that kind of thinking into the system, and that we also think through our transmission system, our municipal structure, and that one is willing to discuss municipal mergers to create larger units that can strengthen local self-government and make them responsible for the best of all. So far here I regret – and I must admit – not seen that the red-green government is particularly innovative in its role as the state's top level of government or as the regulatory framework for the municipal sector or as an employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e870	In order to renew the public sector, we need to increase the efficiency and quality of administration. We need to ensure that citizens have a good meeting with the public, and we need to make it possible for citizens to choose digital solutions. In the years ahead, we have to get economic space without just increasing the budgets. We need to create space to give priority to important welfare measures. We're going to lack labour, and the people have to get first-class services. The public sector in Norway is good, but we still have more than enough to deal with. That is why we must continue to renew and streamline the public sector. We will continue to work with the central building blocks for a digital first choice for citizens and businesses. Electronic mail journals are an important contribution to increased transparency, which is launched over the New Year. The use of an electronic invoice in the country is under development and will represent significant savings both for business and for administration. At the same time, we have full pressure on work on standards and common IT solutions that are necessary to coordinate across borders. These are small but demanding measures to achieve a digital first choice. The government wants a strong and efficient public sector that is capable of improving and renewing itself. The loan fund, for example: now saves several $10 million on annual operations through ICT solutions and automation. The tax base has released large parts of its workbook for more important tasks through the automation of routine work. The population has saved a lot of time by making it easier to fill in the tax returns. This is the way to go. We need a government that has the strength to keep high quality, which is not cut to the leg, and which is not privatized away. The merger is established by the law of union in order to comply with Section 110a of the Constitution. In its draft budget, the Government has increased the overall budget framework of the Sameting by about 10 %. Seventeen million. and have therefore followed up the principles deriving from both national law and international conventions. The government has no intention of shutting down the Sameting. The policy put forward by the Government through the merger notification will be pursued. Sami language is still in a vulnerable position. The Government presented its Sámi Action Plan in May 2009. During the action plan period, the government will provide the basis for a stronger response for Sami languages across all levels and societal areas. The government prioritises its efforts to facilitate the coexistence of information and communication technologies. A few years ago, we all experienced problems with the strange letters æ, island and oh. For Sami letters, these problems have not yet been solved. As of the new year, we therefore introduce new mandatory rules for character sets. It enables the proper transfer of Sami characters between public enterprises and citizens and businesses. The long-term objective is that all public registers should be able to record Sami letters correctly and that the development and exchange of such data between registers should work. The government will place on the agenda the meeting of Sami users with general government and the provision of services. This requires that public enterprises have knowledge of Sami matters within their own sector and that they have personnel with Sami language and cultural competence. Undeclared, long-term work paved by everyday reforms has made Norway the best starting point for an administration that can meet the next decade’s challenges. For that work, I am happy to see that I have the Management and Municipal Committee with me in the goal of quality and efficiency in administration. Equal pay and the balancing of pay differentials are an important objective of income policy. In Soria Moria II, the government has stated clearly that the social partners must agree on the professional groups to be given priority. It must be agreed that new relative wage differences should not trigger compensation claims from other groups. On this basis, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, as an employer party, will have a constructive dialogue with the main association in the work for equal pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e891	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e894	I heard that the Minister of Renewal would make the municipalities more efficient to save money. Let me then use an example from the state that I know best, my home country. Most of the municipalities have probably gone to the purchase of equipment to serve virtually all the sectors in their municipality. The problem is that the equipment is so extensive that these municipalities could probably have all the other municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane with the same equipment. So there's a huge annual operating cost of this equipment. Will the Minister of Renewal see that there are considerable opportunities here if one could get them to cooperate or, perhaps the very best, to merge, so that a truly save money and operate effectively in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e901	In my post I did not say anything specific about the municipalities, but I believe that in the municipal sector it is possible to contribute with efficiency measures. In the municipal sector, it is now fully possible to obtain good and practical arrangements through inter-municipal cooperation. Too many municipalities are good solutions. I also think it is important that those who live in municipalities are the ones who can see the challenges they face and adapt them locally. Whether what the representative suggests is to be done through voluntary cooperation, or whether to go to mergers, the Government believes that it is important to build it up from below. I even come from a municipality that was merged many years ago, and I feel that there is still no complete uproar about it. So I think it's important that we work with those who live in the municipalities. If you find that the combination of municipalities is an appropriate solution, that's fine. But it is therefore fully possible to contribute to good efficiency measures without going the way of community mergers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e908	State Council Aasrud has a lot to think about these days since she is in charge of two departments, and some of what is under the responsibility of the Council of State is to coordinate the role of the State as an employer. During the health pay debate, the government has pointed out that employers have some sort of primary responsibility for workers’ sickness and responsibility for keeping it as low as possible. At the same time, we know that sick pay withdrawals are significantly higher in the public sector than in the private sector, and the state is significantly above this. Then is my question, which goes on the role of the Council of State as an employer representative: does she agree with me that sick leave in the state is alarmingly high? In that case, what measures will she take to bring this down?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e915	It must be due to a misunderstanding when the representative Tetzschner says that sick leave on my part is higher than in the rest of society. It's not. In my area of responsibility, sick leave is much lower. However, when the health sector and health businesses are involved, it is true that sick leave is high. This is why the Minister of Health has recently reduced a sample to take a concrete look at sick leave in the health sector. But even in the state sector, sick leave is too high. That is why it is important that the Minister of Renewal and Administration, as a party to the IA agreement negotiations we are entering into, helps to find even better solutions regarding sick leave than we have today. I am not satisfied that the sick leave in that part of the state's business that I am responsible for is at the level we now have. We have to get better. Single enterprises and single enterprises attracting sick leave too high.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e920	The reference was made to the total employer’s responsibility in the area of the Council of State, even though the ministerial boundaries are narrower. I would like to hear if the Council of State has one concrete proposal to make to bring sick leave into the state – one single one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e927	If Tetzschner wants answers, he can stay standing. That's how we've started a work with the parties. I respect that you go into a work with them. Then it would be strange if we were to make new proposals before we discussed it with the parties. I want to discuss constructively with the parties about new actions. I think a lot is about having good leaders who can follow up on the individual employees. Being seen even when you're away from work, I think, means a lot. At least that's something we can focus on in the leadership development we run in the state. I think it could be one of the important measures to reduce sick leave. But there may be a lot more. We're going to have a good dialogue with the parties about the work we're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e934	I would like to ask our competent government council a question about energy efficiency measures relating specifically to state buildings, which are government builders, property managers and property developers. I believe that precisely State-building can make a significant contribution to reducing energy consumption in Norway by choosing energy-efficient solutions. Does the Council of State agree that State Building has an important role to play here? Does she agree that state buildings should set themselves perhaps higher and more ambitious environmental goals than both what is regulated and what is the situation today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e942	I agree that State Building has a special role to play in planning and building efficient construction, and that we can have good energy efficiency measures in the buildings. We will contribute to that, and State Building is leading. I am very concerned that we can use ICT policy along with the role of State Building. Using ICT to contribute to energy efficiency improvement I think is important in the country's building mass. But then there are also some buildings that state buildings are responsible for, which are quite demanding. As the representative is familiar with, the Riksantikvaren may lay down some provisions for some of our buildings. Then it can be difficult to achieve the most optimal solution. But while you're going to have good construction, I think it's important that we focus on how we organize operations inside the buildings. Among other things, the ICT sector is polluting as much as air traffic. Shutting down the PC is a simple way to reduce the use of energy in state-owned buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e949	Earlier in the debate, the effectiveness of the public sector and its potential in this context have been highlighted. It has also been said that the Progress Party has shown a somewhat old report. That's why I could imagine asking the Council of State whether she thinks there's a significant scope for improving the efficiency of the public sector. What grip of my government council should take from now on and forward – not refer to what has been done, but that one looks forward to what necessary steps must be taken to obtain the most possible effect of the public sector? Is postponing competition and stimulating competition one of the steps one can take to improve the efficiency of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e954	For the red-green government, there is no objective of privatising the business in those areas that are important for good welfare production. Our government also interacts with private people in very many areas where it is appropriate, and we will continue to do so. I think there are a lot of moves – as I said in my post – that can be made to streamline and renew the public sector. As the representative is here, we have just delivered a report showing over 700 new renewal measures. I believe that using ICT, among other things. As we have done in the state, as we have done in the Tax Agency, which we are now doing to automate free card work, which will release many jobs, and the fact that the Loan Fund can now process applications automated is good examples of efficiency measures and renewal measures that help us to free up resources for what is important in the years to come: to produce more well-being for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e961	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e964	The government has now presented an extensive municipal reform, namely the Reform of Cooperation. This is a reform that will require a high level of competence in all municipalities about the objectives of the reform to be achieved. I want to say it so strongly that the district councils lack most of what is needed to make the reform work – both economic and human resources. We have registered that the Council of State and other government members have talked about establishing so-called health municipalities. This will create even more bureaucracy than what we have today. Experience clearly shows that getting district municipalities to cooperate is not a simple task. Then it has to force, and we wonder what a central government council will use coercive measures to implement the Workers' Party's health reform. As I said introductoryly, the district councils are mostly missing, and in the state budget there are no means for the municipalities to be able to equip themselves, neither in the case of buildings nor in the case of human competence. If there is any hope of making the reform work according to your intentions, the reform needs to be made concrete. This is not a reform that can go on in-progress. Now the municipalities are well aware that reforms out of the Labour Party have largely had the effect that they have had to move forward. This we have recorded that the Council of State was agreed when she was a member of the County Council of Sogn and Fjordane. The party of progress sees that the reform will be signed, and in an approximate form, as proposed by the Government. For this reason, the Progress Party has in its alternative budget plus substantially on the Government's proposal with the means to implement this reform. Governments are quick out there criticising the Progress Party when we cut the agricultural budget, but that the government is raging old people's care in the municipalities is fine. If the Council of State has not brought with it in the media and through its own control body that it will be cut in the vast majority of municipalities, and that it will happen before the most expensive reform that has ever come from the state, then either the Council of State will not see the actual economic situation of the municipalities in it, or it will distort it. Not only is there a lack of economic resources, but there is also a lack of the most important thing in all care activities, namely highly qualified and motivated staff. This applies not only to districts, but also to large municipalities. The example I want to draw out is Kongsberg and Henefoss, which are missing in the size of 100 million. kr to get their budgets to jump. To put the 100 million in perspective, this is cut at approximately. Let's add 200. When the Government has school and health as its main field of action, where should they take the cuts? Kongsberg and Hönefoss are relatively large municipalities, and both have our workers party bosses for several decades. The municipalities I am familiar with are about ten of the sizes of the municipalities I am talking about, and they have an age arrangement that requires a lot of resources in the area of health and care. The vast majority of these have to cut between 20 and 25. If the Council of State is now trying to get me bluffed out of this pulpit, it's just to look outside the government offices, then the reality will go up for a pretty fast one. If the red-green government doesn't make sense to build up competences in municipalities in the care and care sector, this is going to be really crazy. In addition, when one sees the ongoing degradation of the specialist services provided by the red-green government in five budgets, this situation does not improve for the sick, nursing, addicted and those who are struggling with mental problems. The main effort of the Government's major project, the Cooperation Reform, is for municipalities to carry out preventive work to relieve the specialist services. I can strongly say from this pulpit that there is no means in this state budget. The economic slowdown in municipalities is high, partly due to increased costs and a heavy cultural focus on municipalities. The optimism was great, and the slogan was, now we have a government that delivers, so now it's just spending money. Now we see that reality is not like party numbers. Measures to strengthen the care sector must be targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e990	I am happy to see that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on what is the reality of the integration and inclusion area. A majority of immigrants and Norwegians born with immigrant parents in Norway participate in the labour market, they are economically independent, they speak Norwegian, and they contribute to the different arenas of society. In fact, Norway is doing well compared with other countries in Europe. Life expectancy improves in a number of areas with increased living time. Year-on-year surveys show that the differences between immigrants and the rest of the population in key areas of life are less now than 10 years ago. So that means that we see good results from the systematic work on integration. About 65 pst. by the participants in the introduction programme come to work or in education, and there are now several participants in the Norwegian training and others who are undergoing the test. That's good, and I'm glad that it seems like there's a broad majority in the Storting that sees, and agrees, that description of reality. Then, of course, we also have challenges. A period of increasing unemployment will show how strongly immigrants are actually linked to the labour market. Immigrants are still overrepresented in households with persistent low incomes, which particularly affect children. Among other things, we must: for this reason, considerable attention is paid to the participation of immigrant women in paid employment. It is important that we are able to maintain and improve the quality of the introduction programme and Norwegian training in order to achieve this. The government's integration and inclusion policy is based on three things: equivalency, solidarity and justice. The government will pursue an active inclusion policy towards newly arrived immigrants in order to ensure the fastest possible transition to work and participation in society. In 2010, the Government therefore proposes a strengthening of the action plan for integration and inclusion, with a particular focus on housing. The measures must also be seen in the context of the poverty action plan. Then we see that not all parties support this. I noticed that in Amundsen's posts there were none of the challenges I have now outlined, which were in focus – not one concrete action, but only a ten-minute description of misery. The Party of Progress is committed to making demands on immigrants, and this Government is demanding. However, the peculiar feature of the budget proposals submitted by the Progress Party is that they are not willing to grant money to enable claims to be made. Once again, we see that the party proposes to close the IMDI and the Contact Committee between the immigrant population and the authorities, KIM, while proposing cuts in the allocations to non-governmental organisations, integration grants and grants for training in Norwegian and social sciences. This will dramatically weaken integration. This will make it more difficult for authorities to impose requirements and make it more difficult for immigrants to meet the requirements we impose on them. In 2010, one of the most important tasks in this area will be to ensure the rapid settlement of refugees in the country's municipalities. A high number of asylum seekers in the previous year and more who are allowed to stay lead to many more residents in the municipalities. The situation is particularly challenging in the case of lone minor refugees. It is very important that the group of young people aged 15 to 25 receives good offers, which enable them to have faith in the future in Norway. To meet the need for housing, we need a change of pace in the municipalities, we need more people to live in. This work will require resources outside the municipalities, but also in the IMDi and Bufdir as well as in similar areas of activity in 2010. At the same time, it is important that we also focus on the fact that integration work is not done in offices – it is done in society. That's why the role that non-governmental organisations can play is very important. To meet the housing challenges, the Government proposes several measures: strengthening the integration grant to municipalities conversion of the Norwegian training grant scheme and societal knowledge into payments over 3 years of increase in the allocation to IMDi; The budget also proposes to strengthen the staffing of municipal child protection. In addition to these measures, I will consider how to increase settlement capacity in municipalities, and I will make proposals for measures to ensure rapid settlement. I will keep Stortinget informed about this work. Those of us who want the multicultural society to succeed must facilitate inclusion and integration, and where it happens, are out between people. Language, work and housing are the keys, and this is a red-green budget for just those things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1024	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1027	One of the changes made by the Government after the elections in this area was the division of the two areas of immigration and integration. The Progress Party has been reasonable alone to point to the obvious link between immigration and integration. That is, if you want to succeed in integration, it depends on having a lot of people like immigrants, who are in proportion to what we are able to integrate. This is an obvious context, which I fear the Government doesn't want to see in context to the same degree. My question to the Council of State is – I know that the Council of State has a different definition of whether integration is successful or not: does the Council of State feel that integration policy is completely independent of immigration policy, in the sense that the number of immigrants coming to Norway does not have an impact on integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1032	Of course, immigration policy and inclusion policy are linked, and therefore the Government has an overall approach to it. One of the things that underpins the kind of asylum and immigration policy that the government is leading is what kind of capacity we have to receive more in Norwegian society. We have been committed to doing that division to get a different focus in the debate and to ensuring that inclusion and integration work is also raised on the political agenda. It is therefore an accident if any debate on the future and everyday life of people who have lived in Norway for a long time is to be held in Norway, instead of being taken over by a debate on how many people will be allowed to come here. Then we do not do our job for those who already live in Norway, and we do not do our job to achieve the best possible inclusion policy. Therefore, it is the grip of the government that has taken, wise and reasonable. So, of course, the government has had an overall approach to this as to other areas where we work across departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1039	In my view, it is relatively special to choose to divide departmental structure according to the focus of the public debate. If you think, as the Council of State says, that you actually see a link between immigration policy on the one hand and integration policy on the other, it's very special that you don't bring this together in the same department. One can almost get the impression that this is more about the fact that the two government parties Work Party and SV in their disagreement, which obviously prevail in this field, choose a shared solution to just avoid internal friction. In that case, it is particularly, in the view of the Progress Party, that there is more focus on public debate and internal disagreement than one actually has to solve the challenges in this area. Will the Council of State in that follow-up... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1044	I think I understand where the representative will, even if he never came to the question, so I'm going to try to answer the question I think had come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1050	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1055	It's just the Progress Party that only looks at the relationship between inclusion and immigration, and leaves it the dominant context. I'm saying I see that context, but the government also sees a lot of other contexts, for example. the crucial link between inclusion policies and what we do in relation to children and what we do in relation to gender equality. Because we see that a key to moving forward in inclusion work now is to get more women with a migrant background into work, to make sure that we succeed better when children with a minority background learn the language early, get into kindergarten and school, and also to a greater extent get caught up in child protection than the child with a multicultural background does today. There are a number of challenges that make it natural to see the inclusion field in the context of the issues already in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1060	State Council Lighthouse has not yet had the major programme statement in terms of integration work, but he was in his post on a number of measures that work. One of the measures also highlighted by the Council of State is the need to learn Norwegian for those who remain in Norway, who are allowed to become Norwegian nationals. Therefore, the Right is a little surprised that the language screening system for all four-year-olds has now been removed, and that it appears that one is instead betting on projects with reduced kindergarten rates in some urban areas with a high level of immigrant population. What's the problem there is that everyone gets this reduced rate, including even advisers in the Røres Storingsgruppe, who have gotten cheaper kindergarten because of this project. Is it not better to focus on language mapping, so that one can address each person who needs to be able to take action, and strengthen the measures aimed at the individual, rather than shooting with hail?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1069	I am a strong supporter of universal welfare schemes, and they will also include employees of the Right Magnification Group. So I'll say that in general I don't have any objections to that they do. When it comes to the concrete question, we're going to implement a test scheme precisely because it's going to be a test scheme, and not because we're going to have systems that last forever. The point of testing schemes is to take measures that may have lasting consequences. We have just done so with regard to this language-monitoring trial scheme, where we have for three years been experimenting with the screening tool called LANGUAGE 4, which has just been given the consequence that the spread of LANGUAGE 4 is now extensive in the municipalities of the country. 66 pst. in 2008 by the municipalities had used LANGUAGE 4. This means that we perceive that this experimental procedure has been successful and has had the consequences it should have, and that it is therefore not natural to continue it as an experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1076	I then perceive that when an action is successful, the state withdraws and sets out on new measures. I thought maybe there was a need to strengthen this work all over the country. But on to another theme in connection with integration work. After all, a majority of the Committee has now been set up to comment on the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation, where a Council of State is asked to find a solution so that this can be continued. Has the Council already found this solution, and if so, when can we expect to get the solution on the table that will allow this important measure, which has given many new jobs and created many exciting businesses, to continue? It is important that our new countrymen can also become entrepreneurs and participate fully in the business world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1083	If I can only get back to language mapping: for many years, language screening of four-year-olds has been carried out at the health centre, and our point is that the use of LANGUAGE 4 has now largely been incorporated into the normal framework of the four-year control. So the measure is good, and it's spreading. Then the representative asks about this note related to the continuation of funds to the Norwegian multicultural value creation centre. I'm very positive about it. This is a comment that comes from the red-green majority, to which I perceive that there is broad support, and which I look positive and look forward to finding solutions. I can't now come up with the final phase of how we're going to do it, but when the Storting asks for it, I'm going to follow it up, of course. I think the purpose is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1090	I want to ask the Council of State a question related to the requirement for four-year education or work for family reunification that is now being consulted. This is what has been introduced in relation to family start-ups. These are measures that greatly affect the integration phase. The argument from the Government is that it should be introduced because it is necessary to reduce the number of unjustified asylum seekers to Norway. However, these are measures that also affect those who have actually been given the right to stay, and it can take up to six–seven years before being reunited with their family. Does the Council of State consider this to be a good measure to improve the integration of immigrants into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1099	This is one of the questions that has been notified by the Government, which is not part of my constitutional responsibility, but Knut Storbergets, regarding what has to do with immigration rules. It is an important question that we should see that kind of regulation in the context of the integration effect. The government has also done so, but I am sure the representative can get an answer to that question if he asks it to the State Council of Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1106	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1109	In Norway, people live everywhere — from the outermost island to the innermost valley, from Lindesnes in the south to North Cape in the north. That's how we're used to that, and that's how we want us to have it in the future. We want to give people a real opportunity to choose where to live, while at the same time ensuring equal living conditions for everyone in the country. The basis for the welfare state we have created is precisely that we have taken advantage of the opportunities that lie in the different parts of the country. Many municipalities face major challenges in population development. People move from the smaller municipalities into regional centres, or into the big cities. This development is not specific to Norway. We see the same thing in Europe – perhaps especially in Eastern Europe. Nevertheless, there is reason to say that there are some points of light. In recent years, we have seen that the number of municipalities with growth in the population has increased. We see that we have had a historical growth in the population of the country. The most important thing for those who are going to live in a place is perhaps that there is a meaningful job to go to, a job that fits with the qualifications and training you have. When an increasing proportion of the population has higher education, it also creates greater challenges in the smaller nationalised areas of the country, where industries with lower requirements for formal education have traditionally been run. It contributes to the trend of centralisation, and it contributes to the maintenance of the biased distribution of income in a centre periphery dimension. In order to counteract this, the Government is pursuing an active regional and regional policy. Increasing value creation and employment by strengthening local and regional business environments, facilitating entrepreneurship, ensuring physical infrastructure and reducing distance constraints are all important objectives for the further development of viable societies and regions. The county councils play an important role in this work, by contributing funds to institutional grants, corporate loans and grants via Innovation Norway. It is therefore important that we continue to maintain the appropriations for these purposes in the future and not build on regional development and innovation, as the Right and Advance Party would like with their proposals on cuts in this area. Local resources and their exploitation must be the basis for the development of functional labour market areas, where jobs, housing and services are to be seen in the context. Exploitation of resources must have local repercussions. In order to contribute to the reduction of centralisation, the development of small cities and smaller regional centres, based on local comparative advantages, will be important. Wider labour market, with more opportunities, will help to reduce the number of people to move and will help more people to return to an attractive job. In the future, metropolitan areas and major regional centres will also have to perform the function of balancing population development between parts of the country. In municipalities with low population density and negative population development, we already see pressure – and in the future we will probably also see further pressure – on both private and public services. When schools have to be closed because there are few students in the community, it will not stimulate more students in the future, but fewer. When the taxi disappears because you lose the transport of patients to the hospital and the income becomes too low, it becomes more difficult in small places for those who don't have a car, to have a social life. In order to reverse this negative spiral, it is important that county municipalities can contribute regional funds to the establishment of new activities and initiate new value creation. Even in the future, people will live throughout the country, in many municipalities. The county authorities will carry out important regional tasks and will also carry out even greater tasks until next year, both in connection with Innovation Norway and in connection with taking responsibility for the infrastructure through roads. Then it's important that the Storting makes it possible for the states to solve these problems. In my opinion, the Government's draft budget for next year is precisely this possibility for county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1128	The government's draft budget for the immigration field is, of course, very expansive. Let me put it this way: when I heard the representative Per-Willy Amundsen in his speech instead talk about the fundamental rights that we as Norwegian citizens have in relation to freedom of expression and also other types of rights – he turned to great heights – it must be emphasised that what lies behind now is that one wants to strengthen border controls, the processing capacity of UDI significantly, the capacity of the foreign student and both the content and the scope of the receptions, is precisely the desire to fence around a group of people moving in an international landscape that is just more and more demanding, but surrounded by very clear and fundamental human rights. It is primarily about the right to apply for asylum and the right to be seriously assessed. These are people who are in a situation of life that is the most serious situation you can imagine in your own life and in your own family. It was only to be lacking if the human rights and fundamental international conventions in force in this field were not to be raised in such a debate. In that way, I thank Per-Willy Amundsen for bringing that aspect in. We should have it with us. The angle of government in this budget is precisely that deterring these international human rights demands that we have a procedure, and it demands that we have an implementation of the decisions taken, which make it possible for those who have the basis for staying in Norway to stay in Norway and that they be treated not as numbers but as people, and that those who do not have the basis for being in Norway should also be treated as human beings and not as numbers, but must be found in leaving Norway. I am very concerned, after a few weeks with responsibility for this field, that we are totally dependent on getting up the processing capacity in the UDI – of course. We are totally dependent on intensifying the border controls. That is why the budget is 150 million. kr to the police – to both local recording units, a national unit to provide advice in relation to identification. We're not least totally dependent on getting the volume of being able to get people back to their country of origin when they don't have the basis to be here. Not many surprises come to my mind during these weeks. There are well-known sizes from the debate outside, but also from the debate in the government. But there is perhaps one thing that surprises, and that is the alternative budget of the Progress Party. When you really go into it and analyse it, what is the consequence, what happens in Norway if we had implemented such a budget from 1 January? Well, it would really mean that the great effort that the Council of State Lightbaking is now in the process of putting into action in relation to housing would, in total, be significantly reduced, including for those who are entitled to housing. It would mean that we would have a residual treatment in the UDI that would be – I kept saying – without equal if we were to halve the UDI operating budget as proposed, and we had to go to massive redundancies from the New Year. I have to report this with all due respect, because I believe that a serious opposition party must respond in Stortinget to what will happen from 1 January if you actually do this. That would mean that we would not be able to deal with asylum applications, whether it comes to 5,000, 10,000 or 15 000. We'd have a lot of trouble getting people into settlement, so we'd get cork on the reception side. And what's going on? Well, in the alternative budget, you almost halve the grants to operate receipts, so we wouldn't have reception facilities. According to my concepts, it would mean an increased influx of unjustified asylum seekers to Norway, because it is seen that we do not have a case-by-case approach to this. It could also mean that many would wander around in society without knowing where they were. And if you want to cut the heads and ears that you get for daily stays, I'm afraid that such a policy would also lead to getting, but many would have to resort to, among other things. crime in order to be able to feed themselves and their families. So this is a policy that I think we absolutely must also warn against in such a budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1144	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1147	With its policies and its alternative foreign law, the Progress Party will dramatically reduce the number of asylum seekers. It also follows, of course, that expenditure in this area will fall dramatically. But then to the question. The councils look with new eyes, of course – he comes into a new field, and has the opportunity to look with new eyes on some relationships. One of the issues that it might be important to look at with new eyes is the possibility of promoting a change request, i.e. having their case re-examined. That's where the great inertia lies in the system. Is the Council of State willing to take a closer look at it — limiting the possibilities of today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1154	The answer to the question is yes. As regards the budget of the Progress Party, it is clear that it will operate from 1 January. After all, you wouldn't be able to implement a new foreign law during the space Christmas season, as the situation is now. Then you have to have completely extraordinary processes, and it's completely irrelevant to think that you could get to another kind of policy. To me, it is totally incomprehensible how to manage to have sustainable foreign management if you were to halve UDI's budget. I believe that it will actually mean, as I said in the main post, that we will have a massive influx to Norway, because one sees that the whole system had almost been put to death in relation to the processing of new applications from those who came to Norway. That's what I think the Progress Party should take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1161	It is not particularly difficult, when the Advance Party relies on its alternative foreign law, to have an effect on this fairly quickly. When the Stortinge dealt with the Foreign Affairs Act in the last period, the Advance Party created a completely separate law on the side of it. We can quickly get through that law in Stortinget, and it would also be possible – clearly – to make significant restrictions if the policy of the Progress Party had been underpinned before a legislative change was applied. So here's a great opportunity to do a lot of things in the field fast if you're willing to do it. But one of the things that the Council of State has to be willing to look at is just conversion requests, because that's where the problem lies. You see, when you are presented via the media, that people who wait years to get a final decision on their application for asylum, a long time ago a final decision has been made, but you use the system, abuse it, and train the case. We were presented with an example of a person who has been in Norway since 1997 and who has promoted a change request 13 times. Here you have to take a completely different grip. And I challenge the Council of State again: are you willing to reduce the possibilities of promoting a change request?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1168	I answered yes instead. I think it's a very clear answer. We have even reduced a selection that now looks at the entire appeals procedure in UNE. So that's just one of the conditions that we want to look at. But I must nevertheless dwell a little on the argument that comes from the Progress Party in relation to the budget. In fact, any responsible political party has to budget from the point of view of reality. One now chooses to halve the processing capacity in UDI. The part of progress reduces the housing allowance so dramatically that those who are waiting for housing and who have been authorised would not be able to get help out of residence. It must be seen that there will be a considerable pressure on the entire asylum system, which could create both more crime and a more unmanageable sector against those who come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1175	The County Council of Storberget was very pleased that he had received 150 million. extra for the police, such as would be subject to border checks — border checks, as it is called. That's great. At the same time, he has received 1,500 million. additional to the UDI – not for procedural purposes, but for operational expenditure – to cover the growing number of asylum seekers expected next year. UDI has gone out and said that the inflow has now flattened out, and that it comes a little less than 18 000, which was estimated for a period. However, for the next year's budget, 18 500 asylum seekers are in the budget. Has the State Council of Storberget concluded a ‘deal’ with the Prime Minister that if he gets the number of asylum seekers down, he will be transferred more to the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1180	We don't make those kind of agreements. This is the way to spend the money you receive in a responsible and proper way. But I have to say that it is interesting that we have a significant decline in the number of asylum seekers now, during November and the weeks we are now in, and we are following that very closely. The government will also closely follow up on what kind of budget will be applicable in this field. It will be subject to revision until next year, in which case. But I underline – both in the media and now – that we need to look at the weeks and get a broader time perspective before we can say anything about the number going to be smaller to next year. I have said that we do not exclude further measures to limit the influx of unjustified asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1185	In its reply with the Advance Party, the Council of State was very concerned that the Advance Party had cut the procedural capacity of the UDI. The government has increased by 50 million. kr. But 50 million. kr is a relatively limited amount in relation to the one and a half billion added to the UDI. Would it not be a better use of taxpayers' money to further strengthen the procedural capacity so that one could also reduce the duration of treatment? One thing is how many people come into the country and are going to have their case dealt with, another thing is how long it takes to deal with the individual application. The Council of State itself has been concerned about reducing the length of the procedure. Why is there no further effort to strengthen the procedure, and then it was expected that you could have cut something on the number of arrivals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1190	First of all, I want to give the Right Honour not to do what the Progress Party does – at least it brings decency into this debate. I also believe that the Right’s approach in this way is not a scheme that would contribute to an increased influx of asylum seekers, which the Progress Party would actually contribute to. With regard to the draft budget, I have to say that one thing is to strengthen the case handler's side, and there we can discuss how much you need, where we have had some divergent proposals. But it is also important to do the grip that is now being done, among other things. with regard to ICT in the UDI and what has been designated as an effect, with more electronic processing of applications, the possibility of filing electronically, the possibility of resolving the case in different bodies, and not least the fact that we have a good and serious review of the first-line project, to see if there is anything to save to improve the procedure, by, for example: UDI alone is the first line, and not with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1197	The work of protecting children has been a high priority in the work of Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. The Minister of Justice has now been given a new responsibility, namely asylum policy. Today, children who have parents who have been expelled for violations of the Foreign Affairs Act have very poor legal protection. Here, Norway has a much stricter legislation than, for example, one. our neighbouring country Sweden. In Norway, offences against the Foreign Affairs Act can be detected and banned for up to five years. So the family will be divided in these years. Neither France, Poland or Sweden would be banned from entry. There are several examples of this. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of States consider coordinating legislation in this area with other countries in Europe that it is natural for us to compare with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1202	The answer to that question is yes. We are now working these days to see if there are several areas in which we should harmonise with the European countries and the Nordic countries in this area. This can go in both directions, in the sense that it is perceived as either liberalisation or narrowing down. I believe that having harmonised rules in this area is more important than ever. That is why I think it is important that we have a European debate on this. As far as the question of children is concerned, it is quite obvious that children are particularly vulnerable, no matter what is the motive for mother and father, and what kind of reason you have to travel. This is one of the reasons why, when we now implement the regulation on family start-ups, we have chosen to exempt children when children are reference persons, for the four-year requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1210	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1213	Norway is once again the best country in the world to live in by the UN. Why? Yes, we do, among other things. a welfare society that provides a good safety network and welfare services to our citizens. We have a scattered settlement across the country with large cities, regional centers and some very small municipalities. These municipalities have different starting points for the provision of welfare services to their inhabitants. It gives us some challenges in the future when we're going to get enough professionals to work in child protection, in the nursing home and in the technical department of municipalities all over the country. With this budget, the municipalities will have a record sum of NOK 333 billion. Of these, 226 billion are free resources, and the free resources are at the base of 70 pst. However, some municipalities do not get the budgets to go up. Much goes to wage growth and pensions, which is natural since the municipal sector in the previous ageing period had a growth in annual work of between 30,000 and 35000. The question is, can the available funds be used in such a way that we get more well-being out of each penny? The answer is yes. And perhaps that for the municipalities, who are entitled to make different plans, should also be a requirement for preventive work plans? The government is adding 230 million to this budget. This is in the start-up phase of the Interaction Reform. That's very good. Local government can also make plans to prevent violence in close relations and crime prevention plans. Preventive work can be a lot. I think that in a municipality with about 6,000 inhabitants, there are perhaps 15 people working with preventive work – health care, child protection workers, the school counselor, outreach, police, kindergarten staff and teachers. But the challenge is that these have to work together to get the most effective out of the resources we put into it, and get a good cooperation between the different agencies in a municipality. The government has arranged for municipalities to establish police councils. It should be a coordinating council for the municipality, where councillors, rapporteurs and county councillors should think crime prevention and with the better growth and living conditions for all citizens of the municipality. Municipalities that are good at this cross-border cooperation can save a lot of money. It's always better to prevent than to repair, both economically and humanly. In Sweden, the figures show that prevention is beneficial. In the labour market measure for drug addicts – KRAmi – they say that one penny has been saved into the measure. The Swedes have also estimated that a dropout in school will burden the state budget with 12 million. after-stretched kr. This is the knowledge we need to use to improve our prevention work in several areas of society. I'll give you an example from Hedmark, the municipality of Ringsaker. They have a well-functioning police council that, through targeted cooperation, has reduced juvenile delinquency by 50 pst. That's great! There is a lot of savings in personal suffering for any victims and offenders, as well as economical in relation to the follow-up of young people on the slope. A contrast to Ringsaker is the bourgeoisly run Oslo, which, when treated as an alcohol policy action plan, did not take up objections from the Oslo police in relation to the number of points of entry and time of arrival. This is where the Progress Party shows that they are selective about what research they choose to follow. I think there's a clear connection between abusing and violence. So much as 80 pst. violence in the city is related to drug use. Research needs to be involved in shaping our policies in municipalities in order to have safe and good conditions for children who are not to be dependent on their parents' resources, either financially or otherwise: children's playground for everyone who needs it, a school with good facilities and competent and motivated teachers and child protection that can help when things are not good enough. The government's budget makes this right, but it'll be up to the municipalities to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1234	You'll be like you live. That's the conclusion of a new doctoral thesis. Åshild Lappegård Hauge shows that our physical surroundings are identity-creating and affect our self-image. For people who have problems with alcohol or mental health, living conditions can make a difficult situation even worse — or be part of the solution. In today's business, we were able to read about the housing offer Vejschildet, which the Church's Bymition has established as a housing offer for the homeless in Trondheim. The project is funded by the Husbanken, operated by the Bymission and has an operating agreement with the municipality of Trondheim. People are not the same and neither will nor can live the same. The most vulnerable are those who have no fixed place to live. The government has prioritised the work of abolishing homelessness. It is an important response to poverty. Today, there are probably more than 6,000 homeless people in Norway, and unfortunately, there appears to be an increase in numbers. We know that the chauffeur in Oslo has received almost 4,000 eviction requests this year, which is an increase of about 20 pst. from 2008. On Wednesday, the evening post wrote about the bear who chooses to sleep out because the public offer is too bad. At the hospital, which is the alternative to alienation, fighting, prostitution and drug traffic are widespread. "If you're out, you're easier to master your own life," explains Arild Knutsen, director of the Human Drugs Policy Association. We can't have it that way. Oslo has a disproportionate share of those who are homeless due to drug abuse or other problems. This is where people move from all over the country. Both Oslo and all the other municipalities in the country must be conscious of their responsibility. It is important that the state, municipalities and voluntary organisations cooperate on good solutions. It's about drug care, health care and housing. An important instrument for securing low-income households is housing support. Last year the Stortinget adopted a proposal from the Government on changes in housing aid. In the first half of 2009, there was an increase in candidate mass of 8 pst. in relation to the same period in 2008. It is expected that the new legislation will not be fully effective until 2012. The conversion and strengthening of the housing support system will mean that as many as 50000 more households will be able to receive housing support, of which up to 10 000 more families with children can be secured through the scheme. It's important. Housing aid is a targeted measure for those who really need it. Therefore, it is a pleasure – and I am very proud of it – that many more will be able to receive housing support in the years to come. The comments of the party on housing support are confusing and raise doubts about what the party really thinks about the scheme. In the general comments of the party, the party refers to housing aid as one of several expensive, resource-intensive and bureaucratic schemes that can create a soil for corruption, while the party later claims that there has been a cross-political agreement to strengthen the scheme. The figures, however, speak for themselves: the advance party cuts 287 million. kr in housing aid in its alternative proposal for a State budget. In the same non-social spirit, the Right Party and the Advance Party enter into an arrangement with the Home Rental Committee, which helps to resolve house rental visas quickly and outside the ordinary legal system. They're all, most things end up in conciliation. It is in the interests of all parties. In 2008, and in the first six months of 2009, the Housing Rental Committee in Oslo and Akershus experienced a sharp increase in the number of cases. The government has now proposed an extension of the regime to Bergen and Trondheim. That's good. Housing policy is an important part of welfare policy. A good social housing policy can prevent people from getting into a social and economic situation. That everyone should live safely and well is an important goal for the Workers' Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1247	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1250	Municipalities have an important role to play in the provision of welfare services. Whether it's child protection, kindergartens, school or health and care services we're talking about, municipalities have a key role to play. During the previous ageing period, the economy of municipalities was strongly strengthened. However, the scope of tasks to be addressed by municipalities has also increased over the same period. That is why I am pleased that the municipalities will be strengthened financially next year. Our welfare services must be constantly renewed and strengthened. The quality community initiative is one example of how to improve municipal services. There are also a number of other good examples of working out in the municipality of Norway to continuously improve services. However, many municipalities are small and lack both the competence and the ability to provide services in vulnerable areas, such as: child protection, school and nursing care services. It's very worrying. The municipalities have also taken the consequences of this and have initiated inter-municipal cooperation to ensure that services are good in these vulnerable areas as well. In the draft budget we are discussing today, inter-communal cooperation is paying some attention. For my part, I very much appreciate that the Government will now assess the joint municipality and whether it will be legalised as a possible form of intercommunal cooperation. I agreed to establish the first joint municipal trial in 2003. The experiment has shown, I believe, that co-municipality is a good way to cooperate. It is a model of cooperation that is mutually committed in a completely different way from traditional intercommunal cooperation. In addition, it provides for good political governance through transparency and transparency of cooperation. It's been missed, for example. in the case of the establishment of intercommunal companies. The lawmaking of the joint municipality provides greater security for employees and greater security for policy-makers with regard to adding more services to the cooperation, which has been called for. In the financial debate and on several other occasions, we have said that the use of oil money is going down. We're going back to the 4 pst. path again, and as soon as possible. It doesn't mean any economic crisis in the country, to say it like that, but we're going to get demanding rounds where we need to give priority to what's most important to spend money on. For the Workers' Party, there will be no tax breaks for the richest, but continued to bet on work and welfare. The municipalities should therefore continue to be strengthened. However, there is not always more money to improve welfare services. We have to keep busy with quality and how we're going to work smarter to get the most well-being out of every penny, which the representative, Lydvo, was also in the house. One way to do it is to strengthen intercommunal cooperation. I trust that the Council of State sees this, and also sees that the future of the Community must be clarified as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1267	I note that this year the Progress Party has chosen to talk about its asylum and immigration policy in a post on which it is not possible to reply. I therefore feel the need to focus on this now. There is a long distance between the Progress Party and all other parties when it comes to asylum and immigration policy, and there is a lot that can be commented on. The Progress Party is pursuing a completely unprofessional budgetary policy in this area. They argue for cutting in the field on the basis that if their policies had been in force, there would be far fewer immigrants in our country. But we're dealing with the 2010 budget, and the immigrants are already here, and they're not going to disappear just over New Year's. In other words, if their budget had been adopted, the cuts of the Progress Party will have very real consequences for very many people. The party of progress is the party that cuts with several billions in the integration process. They cut in the IMDI, they cut in integration grants, they cut out free core time, they cut out the new opportunities programme to get immigrants into work, they cut in Norwegian and social training, and they cut out the contact committee between immigrants and authorities, to mention something. The Progress Party often talks about the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society. What you'll never get any sense of is: what is the integration policy of the Progress Party? How to achieve better integration, i.e. more in work, more in school, more in kindergarten, more in Norwegian, more in common arenas we have in society? They suggest nothing, but cut and cut down the measures that exist. Their policies are not linked either. In a comment, they point out that: ‘The party has a fundamental liberalism and does not distinguish between individuals regardless of religion, ethnic origin or other origin’. This is the explanation that they do not want to grant money to organisations engaged in integration and inclusion work, and why, for example, they do so. The aggregation shall be brought down. At the same time, the Progress Party will ‘restrict strongly Norway’s reception of people from outside the Western cultural circle’. I have great problems seeing how this is related to not distinguishing individuals regardless of religion and ethnic origin. The Progress Party has also called for religious persecution not to be a sufficient basis for protection in Norway. Per Sandberg from the Progress Party said this summer: ‘Persecution because of religion, sexual orientation and women who ask for asylum because they are persecuted as women will not be valid if we have to decide.’ At the same time, the Progress Party says that in its policy they will follow international conventions. This I don't see the context at all, and I just want to repeat what I said: there's a great distance between the Progress Party and all the other games in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1292	I have three messages. First, one of the great betrayals you can commit against another person is not meeting it with expectations or believing that it has nothing to do with. Therefore, we put obligations ahead of rights in the integration and inclusion debate. Everyone is expected to take responsibility for their own lives, and everyone has to contribute to society, because everyone can contribute, and because everyone is needed regardless of their background. It's part of the Norwegian social contract. Secondly, people have different assumptions for participation. A young boy born in Ullern by Sri Lankan parents, who is studying medicine, has other tools to use than a Somali-born woman who is new in Norway and who has three children to care for alone. A good integration and inclusion policy must take account of the large individual differences, because the welfare society is like a good thing. Everyone who's done it knows that tools are usually needed. When different people control different things, different tools are also needed to be able to participate and to do their duty. Then we, as representatives of public Norway, must also do our duty. We have to contribute the tools needed to succeed, because there is reciprocity in the Norwegian social contract. Thirdly, if you are to equip people with tools to succeed, you have to be able to identify what the obstacles are. Basically, I think there are three types of obstacles: The first is that you can need more skills to participate. That is why we are strengthening measures that deal with precisely this. For example, we prioritise language training through both the introduction programme, Norwegian education rights and duty and free core time in kindergarten in some areas with many immigrant backgrounds. The second is that we can deal with discrimination, for example. you know that you do not get jobs that you are qualified to do. Here, institutions such as the Directorate for Integration and Diversity have a very important role because they are the knowledge centre for that type of experience. They also take initiatives and cooperate with businesses and organisations to eliminate discrimination and to increase the participation of immigrants. The third is about culture, or cultural traditions that constitute barriers for women and men who do not want to live by traditional gender roles. It is then important to support organisations with credibility and competence to continue the important voluntary work on grassroots in a way that public authorities often cannot. Finally, while strengthening these tools for participation, I note that the Progress Party proposes to cut in all its alternative budgets. The Progress Party weakens the Norwegian social contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1311	It is good to hear that the head of the Municipal and Administrative Committee awards the municipal and county municipal institution, for this inside the main hall, and in corridors and tunnels, it is easy to be self-absorbed and self-fascinated. Many of those who come to the budget hearings, at least in the church, education and research committee, call for almost unisonably more state and more detailed government. Thus, we can quickly forget that there are municipalities and county councils that are the main elements of our welfare society and not least our people's rule. In all policy areas, commitment at local level is essential if good policy is to be developed. Sorry – not “bottom”. Let's get rid of this pyramid figure or the vertical line where the state thrones at the top, and instead place municipalities, county councils and state next to each other on a horizontal line, shoulder to shoulder, together to develop, implement and operate good policies. Of course, nationally, we have to make our decisions, do our part of the work, not least economically and legally. But then municipalities and county councils should add their local and regional discretion and wisdom and implement it all. The government's good and offensive childcare, school and training effort is a telling example of how right and important it is that the municipality and county councils of Norway move on. Kindergarten, primary school, SFO, secondary education, and even higher education — all this is better if only the community gets into the kindergartens and classrooms, and vice versa: that kindergarten and school get into the community. In particular, this is important if we are to succeed better in terms of social smoothing, inclusion, reduction of disconnection/refusal and more practical training. Then society/Community has to care and feel bored. Everyone serves this, not least local and regional food and social life. This is an important element of the SV's ambitions both in kindergarten and in education. Where the Progress Party wants money follows student schemes, where the right parties want free school choices, SV and the red-green government will grow up kindergarten and school as community institutions that people living in the community use and care about. It's going to be an entire community to educate and form a human being. Many kindergartens, schools and SFOs work in line with this principle already today. That's good, and we notice that not least local business and society themselves appreciate it. Good school development and good social development are closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1326	There is a major difference in immigration and inclusion policy between the Progress Party and the other political parties. When Amundsen talks about taxpayers' money and Hagesets about those sitting at the bottom of the table and people most, the immigrants are not included in those concepts. In my first post, I focused on red-green inclusion policy. The positiveness of a diverse Norway must be clarified in the public debate. A good inclusion policy is not just about good living conditions for people who flee and move between countries and parts of the world, it's about us all. We're cooking. We need people of working age and reproductive age. We need children and young people who can ensure sustainable well-being for generations to come. An internationalised business needs people with language and cultural skills from other parts of the world. The winners of a globalised world are those who exploit the power of multiculturalism. It concerns enterprises, cities, countries. The Progress Party wants to put Norway on the tape team, they see no benefits in diversity. The Progress Party programme states that Norway’s reception of people from countries outside the Western cultural community is to be severely limited, as well as for refugees, asylum seekers and those given residence for humanitarian reasons. Some of the world's 20 million refugees come here. They are to be treated decently according to international driving rules, but it does not want the Advance Party and the hard-handed cutters 3 1⁄2 billion kroner in inclusion and 1⁄2 billion kroner in the apparatus that performs the services. Instead, people should be helped where they live, says the Progress Party. But they don't, either, because they cut in aid and aid administration. The consequences are becoming a Norway with major differences. Money for good inclusion is investment in future value creation. 87 pst. of the Norwegian national wealth is the value of work, but the Progress Party will drop the value creation potential in 10 pst. by the population. Countries that have gone ahead of us know what it can result from social unrest, crime and a reduction in the quality of life for all. Norwegian society cannot afford to waste in the way the Progress Party adds. In addition, there are some inviolable values that apply. Norway shall respect international human rights. That means we're going to accept those who are entitled to protection. And then here in Norway, we're not going to have social differences following ethnic dividing lines either. It is the ethical code that must be taken into account in our inclusion policy. Unfortunately, the policies of the Progress Party do not meet such minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1341	Now there will be a little pause in the debate on immigration and integration, because I intend to talk about something else that the municipalities are responsible for. Municipalities are welfare producers, but they are very important knowledge producers. In clear terms: it is the municipalities that own and run Norwegian school. In my opinion, there has been little focus on the municipalities as school owners. Today, we are going to adopt the financial framework for the local government sector, so that it is able to solve the problems that we impose on it. One of them is running primary school. Municipal economy is often discussed in connection with the school, but in my opinion there is also too little debate in Norwegian local government on content, which is very important. This debate cannot distort the responsibility of the municipalities to facilitate content. We know that there are very big differences between municipalities in the type of school offered to students. Unfortunately, it is not possible to distinguish between the results of national tests when connecting them to economics. If we dump a lot of money into the municipal sector, we may not get better results at the other end. We have to make demands – regardless of financial resources – of School Norway, of the municipalities that run the school, because what we can see is how the municipalities organize their schools, and the results. One of the things we can see is that where there's a lack of educational environments that can be resources for the principals, the school results are weaker. That is why I am generally critical of a two-tier model in Kommune-Norway where this is not compensated for. In addition, small municipalities have to take responsibility for their weakness in that regard. This can be solved in other ways than that Stortinget imposes community mergers, but it must be taken seriously. You can't use it as a sleeping cushion, that you just need money to compensate for it. That solution will not give the results we want, namely a better school and better school results. These assessments must be made at local level, even though we are national politicians who are going to take the lead. We have the goal – there are many here in the Chamber who have said – that we should have the best school in the world, and we should have high ambitions. But politicians in all Norwegian municipalities need to take these challenges more seriously and be their role as school owners consciously, so that all Norwegian students, regardless of where they live – whether they live in a large municipality or in a small one – are offered a school that is organized in such a way as to give them the best opportunity to develop their knowledge and meet adult life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1356	Sometimes we have to raise our eyes. Yesterday, Peace Prize winner Barack Obama reminds us that peace is more than the absence of war. He also said, ‘These were understood by those who wrote the UN Declaration of Human Rights after the war. In the wake of the destruction, they realized that peace is only a secret promise if we do not protect human rights." For people in large parts of the world, it's not obvious that you can be who you are, or say what you mean. There are over 40 million refugees in the world. Many of these are at risk of imprisonment, torture and perhaps death penalty on the basis of who they are, or what they mean. Norway has a responsibility for people in need. This is the background for the discussion we have today about money. People who are forced to leave their country and who need protection will be protected in Norway. As the representative Lise Christoffersen reminded us, we all have a responsibility to conduct the debate in a way that does not offend individuals or create a ground for suspicion and xenophobia. Most immigrants who come to Norway are people who have the right to come here and who we need in the health care system, in the fish processing plant or in the construction industry. And many of the refugees who come to Norway are allowed to stay, because they are at risk of persecution in their country of origin. Should people need protection, get it, it's important that those who don't fill the conditions go home. Last weekend, the police carried out a successful transport of 30 Iraqis without a legal stay in Norway. All of these had either received a final refusal to apply for a stay, or they had been decided to be expelled as a result of a criminal offence committed in Norway. As the Minister of Justice has explained, the Government attaches great importance to the rapid and effective implementation of the asylum process and to strengthening the return process. Both are important. It is an important signal that persons who are required to leave are transported if they do not travel on a voluntary basis. Our starting point is quite different from that of the Progress Party, which Per-Willy Amundsen's contributions illustrated in a clear way. The Labour Party believes it is obvious that Norway is complying with its international obligations and that we are taking responsibility. We view a multicultural society as fundamentally positive, not as a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1375	Finally, I would just like to make an explanation of vote. A proposal has been tabled on the right – proposal No. 29 – which both the representative Christoffersen and State Councillor Lysbakken have given good hopes of being realized. So I want proposal No. 29 is converted into a transmission proposal. The left has put forward three proposals which have been distributed in the Chamber. The right will vote against the proposals. 31 and No 32 and for proposal No. Thirty-three. Then the representative, Mr Holmås, has put forward a proposal, which we fully support, but because we want to vote against the framework, we are not allowed to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1386	The representative of Trond Helleland has then made the proposal to which he referred about a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1389	The right-hand side would like to claim that it is those who see the individual, while the left-hand side completely loses sight of the individual. In today's debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has once again proved that the Progress Party is the only party that does not see individuals, but just see numbers on paper. They see figures when they talk about refugees and asylum seekers – they don't see individuals. I always find it exciting to discuss the basic values on which we are going to base the Norwegian society. And I know that Per-Willy Amundsen and I will disagree in a good deal. He will stand for greater egoism where I will stand for solidarity. He will more fully stand for the market where I will stand for fellowship. We're going to have that value fight. That's what makes us different, that's what makes us representatives of the right and left sides, but usually it tends to be a couple of things we agree on. In the preambles of the Progress Party, equality is not always equal. It is in me, equality, democracy, freedom of expression and human rights is one of the fundamental values of society. The European Convention on Human Rights is a foundation for our treatment of refugees. It says that we should not send people back to the country they come from, if they are at risk of death or inhuman treatment. For Per-Willy Amundsen and the Progress Party, this obviously doesn't matter, because as long as the number of asylum seekers is so large, we don't see the individuals, then we're just busy tightening up. I think that's very good once again to clarify, but I think it's quite sad. I think it's pretty bad that we have an asylum debate here in the country where one side is unable to see that we need to maintain the fundamental human rights. The second part of this question is about contexts. After all, he challenged the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Children, Equality and Inclusion on that very point – do you not see the relationship between these two things? Well, doesn't Per-Willy Amundsen see the relationship between the world situation and the number of people applying for asylum? Does not Per-Willy Amundsen see that in a situation where there is a war in the Balkans, there will also be more asylum seekers in Norway? Does he mean there's no connection? Should not Norway take such considerations into account at all? There are over 40 million refugees in the world, and a few very few of them come to Norway and seek protection. Finally, I would like to ask a question to Per-Willy Amundsen. He challenged the minister, and said very clearly in his statement that the intrusions are not working. No, well, interesting. Does that mean that Per-Willy Amundsen could imagine making a proposal to lift the restrictions that were proposed and that he does not think work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1407	The answer to the question from the representative Holmås is of course no. The problem is that the small measures you have taken have not been dimensioned in relation to the enormous challenges you face. That is why asylum policy has not worked. The Progress Party is being challenged in the budget, in particular from the Council of State, and it is trying to make it appear that this is an unlikely policy that will lead to an increase in the influx of asylum seekers. That's obviously wrong. So there is nothing more revolutionary in the figures used by the Progress Party in its alternative state budget than what the Government itself laid down in its budget for 2008, originally, before the asylum flow completely subsided. It's actually a normal budget, according to all the concepts, as we've experienced inflowing to Norway in the past, with a few exceptions. It's not more revolutionary. That is why the Progress Party also says that when our policies are fully operational and our foreign law is implemented throughout the system, the budget will actually be even more reduced – we are talking about 2011 and 2012. So this is no more eye-catching than the 2008 figures. That is because the Progress Party is pursuing a completely different policy. But it is also no more eye-catching than the policy pursued in our good neighbour Denmark. They have a completely different asylum inflow from Norway, because over a long period of time there has been a different approach to humanitarian grounds compared to family immigration rules, which have kept them back, while Norway has had an extremely large increase. So it's not like some people are trying to make it, that this is about refusing real refugees. I note that it is still the case that the vast majority of those who come to Norway and seek asylum do not meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention. It's a fact. Trying to represent this as if you're trying to deny real refugees is, of course, not right. The party of progress is behind the Refugee Convention, and we still intend to do so, but there is a considerable room for action for every government and every great thing to manoeuvre within the conventions of which Norway is obliged. Denmark is linked to exactly the same conventions as Norway, but they are thus practicing a completely different refugee policy. So it's not more voodoo than it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1420	With regard to the policy of the Progress Party in this area, it is not only different from the policy of all the other parties in the Stortinget, but it is different from the policy of the Progress Party in some other areas where this type of budgeting is not used. Making use of the justice sector as such that all the measures proposed by the Progress Party, both on law and regulation, to reduce crime, would give less crime, and then come and propose less money to the police because there is not so much need for the police, not so much need for prison places, because the policy would give less crime, not in the justice sector. But in this area you allow yourself to do it. That's what Per-Willy Amundsen is not responding to. In fact, you go so far as to halve the operation to the UDI, and cut so much on the Audun Light Hill budget in terms of integration and settlement, that you actually get less than the number to actually settle. I don't think that's serious budgeting. I do not think this field deserves it, because if we are to manage to reduce asylum arrivals in Norway, one of our most important means is to deal with applications. If there's a reputation abroad, and a well-founded one, that here we cut so much that we can't deal with all the applications, I'm afraid it's a big invite to unwarranted asylum seekers. That is why I believe, with good evidence, that the draft budget of the Progress Party will give more unjustified asylum seekers. The fact that people don't get room for reception, don't get their own housing, don't take part in integration, will also increase crime. There is also a need to take responsibility for accounting for this kind of policy. In this way, this is not a ‘normal budget’, which is almost described as having a ‘normal’ number coming to Norway for a year. This swings. We know the number, and we know pretty much the level, where we are now, and what we need to go to next year. And then we'll have to adjust if there's any changes. The proposal of the Progress Party is not a normal budget; it is an 'unnormal budget'.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1429	The President assumes that the Council of State Storberget spoke about the budget of the Council of State Audun Lysbakken. I think it's the council that has a budget and not the Audun Lighthouse. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1440	I don't think the council should get away with the kind of reality he's going into. I repeat: with a completely different policy and a much more stringent policy, much less will seek to abuse the institution of asylum, which in fact is very many doing under today's liberal regime, led by the red-green government. With far more shipments, we also had reduced the number of people sitting and occupying places in Norwegian asylum centres. There are now more than 3,000 people and take up places in Norwegian asylum recipients, people we could have returned and thus also released places. This is about what policies you implement. The reason we are in this situation today and have major challenges in this area is precisely politics. Because the red-green government has liberalised Norwegian asylum policy, we experience a historical influx. We all beat records, and are among the countries in the world that accept most asylum seekers in relation to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1451	The representative Heikki Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1454	We cannot allow Per-Willy Amundsen to have the last word in such an important debate as this. Therefore, I feel the need to say the following: Per-Willy Amundsen says that he is following the Refugee Convention, and then he suggests that all those who are not allowed to stay under the Refugee Convention abuse the asylum institution because the red-green government is running a naïve – naive sometimes, or liberal, liberal, call it what you want – asylum policy in other contexts. It's like there's more conventions than one that regulates what kind of people we're going to protect. I guess Per-Willy Amundsen knows – he can't, if he wants – that human rights and the European Convention on Human Rights function as what gives residence on a humanitarian basis for reasons of protection to a very large extent. There may also be other conventions, but it's the one that essentially regulates this. The people who are allowed to stay after this Convention are as entitled to protection as those who receive it under the Refugee Convention. It is not that people who are allowed to stay abuse the institution of asylum. If you read the rejections, you see that there are very many of the people who are not groundless asylum seekers, but they don't get up. They have a need for protection, but not so much that they go beyond the limit of residence in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1461	With the risk of making sure that the representative Amundsen still gets the last word, I needed to add a few things. It is quite special that we get this repetition of the fact that the budgeting of the Progress Party is realistic when we look at what they actually propose on the housing side. A cut of SEK 1.2 billion in the integration grant comes at the top of a closure of the IMDI, which is the directorate responsible for policy-making. What is said here about bringing down the number of applications, then this goes up, is directly wrong, because this is the case, are applications that have already been granted – refugees who are already in Norway and who are to be settled. The progress party cut of SEK 1.2 billion is more than the integration grant for new residents in 2010. In practice, this means that the Progress Party assumes that no new ones will be settled in 2010. It must mean that one estimates that refugees who have already taken up residence in Norway will change their mind and go home on a voluntary basis in 2010. I find it relatively unrealistic, and if that's the premise, it's really unprofessional budgeting that's run by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1172]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1485	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1183]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1501	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1517	The swine flu has also come to Norway, and many have become ill. The Committee today unanimously proposes a legislative amendment to the State Pension Fund Act, the Health Workers' Pensions Act. The flu of pigs could lead to a limited period of time requiring additional health care personnel. Retired health professionals will have to contribute when we have a shortage of health professionals. The Committee does not wish them to be curtailed in their pension when they contribute to their competence in this particular situation. This is a temporary derogation from the curtailment rules and will apply until 1 July 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1185]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1540	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1185]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1556	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1565	Prop. 9 L is a legislative proposal underpinned by an overall committee. However, there have been some comments from the opposition that I expect the individual parties to elaborate, whether they feel for it. The legislative proposal intends to facilitate the provision of a pension scheme to a profession which is not a worker under the environmental protection law. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration has assessed several solutions, and they have come to the conclusion that it is most appropriate to create a new law in order to provide the clients with satisfactory pension rights. The legislative proposal concerns state shelters and family homes. Their task is to receive children in need of accommodation on the basis of decisions under the Child Protection Act Chapter 4. Emergency homes shall have specific competence to care for the specific needs of children as a result of their emergency positioning, while family homes shall have specific competence to care for children in need of follow-up beyond the ordinary due to specific challenges. Under the contract of the contractor with the State, homes are obliged to be available to receive children on short notice. I would like to stress that state foster homes have a different role to play than municipal foster homes. Municipal foster homes are initially not to deal with children with as great challenges as those facing state foster homes, and they have different employment relationships than state foster homes. The general consideration must be that state shelters are organised and run for the best interests of the child. These are families that are going to care for children in a difficult and vulnerable phase of life. It is therefore necessary to provide for good arrangements for those taking on such an important role in society. The Committee would stress that it sees a clear link between the best and stable social arrangements of the child for contractors, including a good pension scheme. In these cases, the contractor in the contract of employment will not be able to take any other job alongside the contract. This is an important element in the provision of a pension scheme to contractors, as they are prevented from having other jobs. The Committee sees that a pension scheme can also be an instrument for recruiting new clients. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party will stress that we believe that the legislative proposal that exists is in a good way responsible for the independence of the emergency and family homes as contractors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1586	There are major challenges related to the recruitment of families for shelters and families. It is necessary to provide good arrangements for families taking on the important social task of assisting children and young people in critical and difficult situations. The State Regional Child Protection Authority is responsible for recruiting and providing foster homes and for providing foster homes with the necessary training and general guidance. Per. On 31 January 2009, 115 children and young people were admitted to foster homes waiting for a foster home and a further 619 children and young people were notified to foster home services as being relevant for foster home placement. The choice of foster home shall be based on the consideration of the best interests of the individual child, in which case it shall be assessed whether or not the position of the biological family is possible. It is important to have a wide range of foster families in order to provide a good and sustainable location. Therefore, it is important that the recruitment of foster homes is improved, among other things. through increased information and improved framework conditions for foster homes. That is why the Christian People's Party also supports the Government's proposal. The Government has concluded a cooperation agreement with the KS, formerly the Central Association of Municipalities, on the development of the area of child protection. The agreement shall contribute to more holistic efforts to achieve the objective of timely assistance for vulnerable children and young people. Municipal services for vulnerable children and young people shall be strengthened with better capacity, cooperation and competence. My message is that in this context it is important that the framework conditions for municipal foster homes are also improved. But we support, as I said, the Government's proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1599	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1187]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1615	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1624	Prop. 10 L is a follow-up to the legislative amendment proposal in Ot.prp. No 101 for 2008-2009 from the previous parliamentary term. Ot. pp. No 101 were not finished then. The proposal therefore returns to Stortinget with some additional changes in different areas of the State Pension Fund Act and in some other laws. The bill deals with several different issues in the State Pension Fund Act and in some other laws. Among other things, the bill looks at whether equality between widows’ and widowers’ pensions is in line with the EEA Agreement. There are parts of government pension schemes, pharmacies pension schemes and nurses’ pension schemes — to name a few. The Committee is behind several legislative proposals from the Government. A majority of the Committee endorses all the legislative proposals, with the exception of the Progress Party, which wish to vote against. I expect that the Advance Party will explain, and I expect that the Christian People's Party will explain the proposal they submitted yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1633	This case concerns changes to the Law of 28 July 1949 No. 26 on the State Pension Fund and in some other laws. We in the Progress Party are totally unintelligible to some of the proposed changes and the thinking of the Ministry. It is quite incomprehensible to us in the Progress Party that changes are being made that result in the removal of flares according to the State Pension Fund Act with retroactive effect. The pension system is a relationship between two parties. Pension is a long-term relationship. The trust relationship between these parties is very important. What kind of trust can employees/pensionists have in a system if the one-party unilaterally thinks they have the right to change the terms after a pension is fully or partially lit? Prime Minister Stoltenberg has stated that there should be a better match between what you pay and what you receive as a pension. Why do the Prime Minister and the rest of the Government do the opposite, as this case shows? Men who were members of the State Pension Fund before 1 October 1976 have instigated the right to a survivor's pension with special rights and should be able to expect that they may be renunciated, will benefit from intrigued dishes. Special arrangements apply to men who were members of the State Pension Fund before 1976. All of these today have at least 33 years of ignition if they are still in the public sector. For these, after the Progress Party's view, it would be totally unimaginable to take from the man, who has had this right for at least 33 years, the possibility that this right can be used, and who these proudly have to pass. The party of progress also believes that the rights to early retirement and survivors' pensions and sickness-based limitations cannot be removed retroactively. Nor does the Party of Progress support the proposal to remove with retroactive effect the rights of the non-discrimination of widows and widowers. Furthermore, the progress of the party cannot support the removal of unintentioned rights linked to the caregivers' pension scheme. After your progress party view, you can't remove permissions for them with retroactive effect. Based on the fact that the Progress Party has always protected well-intentioned dishes and has gone against changes in laws with retroactive effect, the Progress Party will vote against the Government's amendments, where deliberate dishes under the State Pension Fund law will be removed with retroactive effect. An important question arises: can the state, in the event of new legislation, jump from its pension laws for which it has already been paid, and therefore not pay the bill when it comes, while at the same time maintaining the trust of the pension scheme? The step forward party's answer is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1659	After the Committee gave its opinion, I have become aware that this matter has more aspects and is more complicated than it might seem at first. It is necessary to go back in time – look at the history and look at the widow's and the survivor's pension with historical glasses. All the parties at Stortinget have a long history here. At the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, this was an ever-increasing theme in the United Kingdom. Even the National Audit Office had comments for several years in Document No. 1 that the legislation was not properly practised. After much about and but, announcements and propositions, remarks from the National Audit Office, judges in the Social Security Court and the so-called Bjøraanesset case, with judgment in the Law of Lawyers, the law was amended for several rounds in Stortinget, and the widows were granted the rights they should have had in relation to coordination and self-earned retirement. It was also given after payment. The majority in the Grand Duchy set a limit on those who had become widowed by men who were members of the pension fund before 1 October 1976. The changes made by the Storting in the 1980s and 1990s calmed down the one-off pensions, and the rights were established. Now, what we're about to do is change these rights. This is done because the EEA Agreement requires us to include men in the scheme unless women are also deprived of their rights. I do not think it is problematic that enlargement for men is limited to 1994. It is also acceptable that women and men who in the future marry men and women who became members before 1 October 1976 should not be included in the scheme. What's hard to defend is to deprive women under 55 years of age, the right they have today if they become widows. When the majority of the population in 1992 set the limit by 1 October 1976, it was fully aware that women’s participation in the labour market had increased and would increase more in the future. Yes, the large costs you saw in the future were one of the reasons not to allow more people to be covered by the then law change, but to limit it to the group against which mistakes had been made. The proposal quotes from the opinion of the Ministry of Justice: ‘We are therefore liable, under certain doubts, to assume that the repeal or amendment of the special scheme for women under the age of 55 at the time of its entry into force will be made clear by the Constitution § 97. If the limit is set at 50 years, the doubt is reduced.» This statement suggests that the law department has not been sure in its case, and the older the women are at the time of legislation, the more uncertain they are at the level of constitutional protection. I have some questions for the Council of State: Is the uncertainty as great as this statement expresses? And in the light of history, are the boundaries that are now being set, so that we don't risk coming new and long laps in the legal system? Employers’ organisations have a problem with the costs of legal changes other than the country. What costs will the legislative changes entail for other pension schemes? Is it also necessary for all the arrangements covered by the transfer agreement to make the changes that are now being adopted? What will be the cost to the state and other pension schemes, including: the pension fund of municipalities, if the pension limit is not set by persons under the age of 55 but is instead extended to include men who were members of the Pension Fund before 1 October 1976? These are questions that I have asked, and which I hope I can get a good answer to. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party which is distributed in the Chamber, and I would recommend my party to vote in favour of this proposal and against the proposal of the Government relating to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1683	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1686	This is a matter that is beyond the previous staging and that has been given a new number and a new review. There is no doubt that the matter has taken a very positive turn, by ensuring equality between men and women – and equality between men and women is a good thing, that's at least I'm following – and that's a positive development. It gives some rights for men to earn the same rights as widows – or as widowers it has as widows. I think this extension is good. There is no doubt that it is entirely reasonable and entirely right to limit the period during which these rights are processed to the date of entry into force of the EEA Agreement. Then, of course, we can always discuss whether we as big ones should have thought about this earlier and made sure that men had the same rights. So we haven't done that, and now we're making sure to get it into this law. The other side of the case is the restriction of more or less already acquired rights. I agree with the Christian People's Party when they say that they think it is unproblematic that women who are not married to men today should not process these rights. Then it is important for us, as big-time representatives, to have discussed and thought through all the conditions around it to restrict those under 55 years of age, who at that time would normally be quite young when this amendment came into force in 1976. Obviously, it's a difficult balance, because it's about ensuring that the relationship between women and men is balanced, so you get equal rights. However, after an overall assessment and after the rounds that have taken place, both in the government and in the broad majority here in the Chamber, the Gazette Committee has come to the conclusion that there is a restriction that we think is right to make sure that the law in Norway is in line with what the European Court of Human Rights requires. Then we should always bear in mind when these kinds of things come up, that it is important to take this kind of thorough discussion in the Stortinget – both in committee and in a big hall – on issues relating to the Constitution § 97.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1697	I was asked some direct questions, which I will try to answer. I think the representative Heikki Holmås gave a good account of the dilemmas. There is no doubt that when making changes to the Constitution, constitutional protection in Norway is strong, and it is important to make proper adjustments. I can assure the representative, Mr Becquerad, that we have made thorough assessments. We have a 19-page investigation from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, which assesses the various aspects of the case, and we believe that this case is within what it is possible to do with regard to the provisions of the Constitution. It is true that when these assessments are made, there is always some uncertainty about them. And the final outcome might have to be decided in court. But we believe that the assessments that are underlying, and the assessments that we have received from the Law Department, indicate that this is within the scope of the action we have. So to the questions that were raised about estimates, which I was asked about, and what that would mean in relation to other agreements. It is such that this is a law; it is a law that is to be amended. In the case of other tariff areas, this is mainly linked to the tariff agreements in place, so it would then depend on the negotiations between the parties if similar changes were made to the pension agreements in place. There is a tariff agreement covering the KS area. Other schemes are not contractually agreed upon by collective agreements, but have been agreed by the State through the Public Service Pension Act. Some estimates have been made, and it is quite difficult for us to make those estimates, because we do not have an overview in our civil status registers of the members of the State Pension Fund – nor in other pension funds, so there has to be a rough estimate. What has been done in terms of municipal areas suggests an estimate of approximately 235 million. kr, the proposal contained in the legislative proposal with the limitation of 55 years. Estimates have also been made not to make changes, but to give men the same rights as women have. Then the costs for the government will be about ten times as large as what you estimate today, up to NOK 2 billion. There is reason to believe that some of the same ratio will apply to the municipal sector. So we're going to have a cost of over 4 billion dollars. So to the proposal of changes that the Christian People's Party has promoted today. As I understand that proposal, you have to be equal to men and women in 50 years. This will result in many men gaining new rights, and the cost of doing so on an annual basis will be around 40 million. krones. Capitalised in life expectancy, the cost then lies between 500 million. SEK 600 million. kr. There are considerable sums, and at least I would not recommend that the representatives of big business vote in favour of such a proposal. There we spend a lot of money on a group of people who at least had no expectations of getting such an increase in their pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1716	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1719	After the party's view of progress, this matter is both moral and contractual. The party of progress would claim that it is immoral to do as the government has done. When the Council of State also admits that it has strong doubts, there have been many rounds back and forth, there is a common perception among the most people that there is great doubt, then the doubt – I kept saying – should come to the fore. We in the Progress Party also believe that this is contrary to the Constitution. Isn't the Council of State afraid that this will bring about a race of lawsuits that could be very dangerous for the state to lose? Don't you want to think about it again before you implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1724	As I said in my main post, there has been some doubt regarding changes related to the Basic Law § 97. I think it's always been, but we've done a thorough round with the Ministry of Justice, which is quite common when the department investigates that kind of thing. Based on the assessments and the assistance we have received from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, we believe this is within the scope of the action we have in relation to the Constitution § 97. But I would like to stress, as I said in my main post, that there is always some uncertainty about that type of case, and that will not be settled until the matter has been settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1730	To these constant references to the law being almost saved by the judiciary: I believe that the Stortinget as a legislative body in our Constitution must give laws with a greater margin of uncertainty as regards key constitutional provisions. I was a little disturbed by the Council of State's choice of words, perhaps especially in the answer to the previous line. I would therefore like to know if the Council of State can confirm that, to the best of her knowledge and conviction, she has the right to have this legislation which is clear of the ban on return in the Constitutional Act § 97.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1737	The government has made thorough assessments of the matter. We believe that we are within the scope of action provided by the Basic Law § 97. However, when I have expressed some uncertainty about that, it is because I believe that that kind of uncertainty applies to the vast majority of matters affecting the Constitution. But based on thorough assessments, we believe that we are within the discretion that we can have, and believe that 55 years is a clear limit to putting out what we think. We have received good help from the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, but of course we have also made our own assessments of this, and the government's opinion is that we are within what is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1742	I would also like to address what has to do with Section 97 and just repeat what the Law Department itself says. They say, ‘We are therefore liable, under certain doubts, to assume that the repeal or amendment of the special scheme for women under the age of 55 at the time of its entry into force will be made clear by the Constitution § 97.’ And then they also say, ‘The 50-year limit reduces doubt.’ There's an uncertainty here. Does the Council not see that there can now be a series of legal cases relating to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1757	I don't want to speculate on that. Once the government has submitted the matter, with the assessments that have been made, we believe that it is, as I have repeated several times, within the space of action we have in relation to the law. But it is clear that we cannot guarantee in advance that there will be legal proceedings or not. It'll just show the time further. But we believe, based on the thorough assessment made by us and by the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, that this is within the proper framework in which we believe that such a case can be brought forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1762	The chord change is then complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1765	I can't say that I was calm considering the Constitution § 97 in this case. A person always tends to have a hold of what is legal and not legal. If an e.g. has the slightest doubt whether a person has a prom or not, leaving a car to run. If there is any doubt as to whether something is lawful or illegal, leave behind that action. It should apply to everyone, both individuals and businesses in Norway. But when it comes to the Government, a balance can be made on the boundaries of what is legal or not in relation to the Constitution. It seems that the Progress Party is unfortunate. I'm not going to go into all of these points again. The representative Starheim has gone through what the Progress Party thinks about when it comes to these contractions that this is about. What I want to take into account is that, while almost all groups get worse pension conditions, i.e. poorer pensions, it's a group that needs to get better pension conditions. They will have a double pension level, and they will also have a reduced ignition time, from 30 to 20 years. It applies to ‘accompanying persons’ in the extraterrestrial services. It is quite incomprehensible, at least for the Progress Party, how it may be that, at the same time as almost all groups get worse conditions, a better condition should be so dramatic for this group – that is, a doubling of the pension and a reduction in ignition time, from 30 to 20 years. It suggests that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre want to give a good to their friends in the foreign service, and it is not clear what is really the basis for it. At least the party of progress will vote against this. We thought it was unwise, we thought it was unfortunate, and we have had some understanding of this proposal. Finally, I would also like to say that we want to ask for a point-by-point reconciliation, so that the Progress Party will have the opportunity to vote for what we are in favour of, and against what we are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1778	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1188]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1794	When Stortinget adopted a new cap in January 2009. 13 in the Foreign Affairs Act, it meant the simultaneous implementation of the Directive on the right of EEA citizens and EFTA citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. In the proposition we are discussing today, some changes are proposed in the chapter. 13, primarily legal, but also some material. EEA citizens and family members have the right of residence in Norway. Citizens of other countries must be granted a residence permit. When applying for family reunification under the law. 6 with persons with a residence permit, as part of the proceedings, the foreign authorities have the right to obtain information about the social assistance received by the reference person. It is now proposed that the same right should apply to persons with a right of residence after cap. 13th@item: inlistbox A unanimous committee endorses the proposal. The same applies to the proposal that previously adopted rules on the prompt implementation of decisions on the expulsion and expulsion of non-residents without a residence permit be extended to non-residents without a right of residence. The Committee considers that legal certainty should be ensured in both situations through specific assessments of the individual case. Furthermore, the new Foreign Affairs Act provides for penalties in the form of fines or prisons for infringements of a number of provisions of the new law. These are also proposed for EEA and EFTA citizens. The Committee agrees. At the same time, this list adds some of the other provisions in the chapter. 13th@item: inlistbox This concerns a breach of the registration obligation under § 107, a request for a residence card under § 118 and an attempt to break or break the entry ban under § 124. The latter was also affected by an error in the original proposal for legislative changes in the proposal, but was corrected and incorporated in the proper version of the Committee’s position. As a result of the work of a new regulation to cap. 13 it is proposed to allow the right of withdrawal of a registration certificate, a residence card, a permanent residence certificate and a permanent residence card, where there are grounds for removal or expulsion, or where the right of residence has been acquired with incorrect information or references. A unanimous committee also supports those proposals. A period of seven days has also been proposed in order to bring an expulsion case against EEA citizens without a right of residence, but that expulsion may take place after the deadline if there are grounds for expulsion. A unanimous committee also agrees with this. The Committee welcomes the implementation of a simple online registration system and also endorses the proposals made in the proposal unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1811	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 1190]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1819	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1827	During the debate there are 34 proposals. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-14, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 15-25, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 26, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 27-30, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 31-33, by Trine Skei Grande, on behalf of Left-wing proposal No. 34, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party Proposals Nos. 1–30 is included in the position on pages 69 and 70, while the proposals No. 31–34 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposal No. 29, from the Right, the debate has turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government continue the support to the Multicultural Valuation Centre.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1861	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to postpone the repeal of the Housing Lease Regulations until 1 July 2010.’» The Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1877	There is a vote on proposal No. 32, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a case on how to enable 265 municipalities that do not currently have a housing social action plan to develop such a plan and how to acquire competence to implement the measures.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1894	There is a vote on proposal No. 33, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to file a case promptly for the Privacy Commission’s suspension.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1912	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 27, 28 and 30, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1943	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the rules on day-to-day pay so that non-residents who receive a daily allowance do not lose them if they start with Norwegian training.’ The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e1961	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15-25, from the Party of Progress,
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e2039	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e2065	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–7 and 9–14, from the Party of Progress and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e2138	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e2164	We shall then vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote and we shall begin with the frame area 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e4004	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e4009	President. I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e4014	Then we'll have a new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e4026	We then go to Framework Area 6 Roman numerals I even Roman numerals XI as well as the amendments contained in Proposal No. 34, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal contains a redeployment under the heading. 581 and sounds like: ‘Chap. 581Dwelling and living environment measures61Husleite grants21 SEK 50000075Dwelling grants for establishment, adaptation and rental housing can be transferred896 DKK 100000»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e6727	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e6737	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7545	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7555	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7563	During the debate, the representative Geir Jørgen Bekkevold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7844	Paragraphs 27, 32 and 34 under I, and II, III and VI shall be deleted. The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7859	And then the rest of I and IV, V, VII, VIII, IX and X add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7869	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e7879	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e8112	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e8122	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-11.ana.ud796e8134	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
