ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e84	The representatives Per Roar Bredvold and Thore A. Nistad, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Left-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Vera Lyskleatt from 16 March onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Trond Lode from 16 March to 27 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representatives of the Vara, for Finnmark County Bjørg-Irishen Østrem and for Rogaland County Magnhild Eia, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e124	Bjørg-Irene Østrem and Magnhild Eia are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e130	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solveig Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Solvency Horne are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e140	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e143	On behalf of Gunnar Kvassheim and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal to allow political advertising on Norwegian television.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e148	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2293]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e178	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2293]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e194	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e210	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e219	Diabetes is one of our common diseases, and an estimate that over 250,000 people in Norway may have diabetes. The challenge is that very many of these have not been diagnosed; the Norwegian Diabetes Association estimates that this is about half. This is also pointed out in the national strategy for the field of diabetes 2006–2010, and it is therefore an important objective to have more and, therefore, to be treated more. With an early diagnosis, one will avoid sensitisation and thus save the people involved and society too much – both of suffering and of economic burdens. That preventing versus repair is cheaper, I think the entire committee agrees. The question is how best to do this. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party members, the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left agree that prevention of type 2 diabetes should take place in all those arenas where it is possible to focus on physical activity and diet. Here the majority refers to St. prp. No 1 for 2008-2009, where specific measures have just been mentioned to increase physical activity, fruit and vegetables in schools and other measures aimed at improving the diet of the population. A broad approach to prevention is important, and it is therefore a matter of many groups in society, and already from childhood. We don't know who's in the risk group until it's too late. Since diabetes 2 is mainly a lifestyle disease, it has to be concentrated in several places at the same time, because prevention does not only prevent one disease, but there are many diseases that have the same common denominator. We have therefore been focusing on different measures that will prevent not only diabetes but also lifestyle diseases such as alcohol and alcohol. coal and cardiovascular diseases. The Committee agrees that the role of the legislator in detecting type 2 diabetes is important. This has also been confirmed in meetings with the Diabetes Association, which want good common guidelines to reveal several undiagnosed and improved competence of the permanent physician. The Committee also considers that actors such as the occupational health service and home services should be such important actors. They are those who meet the patients and can ask the right questions and take the right tests. It is therefore necessary to put in place procedures for what is to be looked for and to provide guidance. I would also like to point out to the Committee that more research needs to be done on type 1 diabetes, which is not a lifestyle disease, but a lifelong chronic disease that affects many children and young people. It is worrying that Norway is at the top of the world for children and young people with type 1 onset diabetes. There should be more focus on finding the reason for this. Type 1 diabetes also has major societal implications if not early prevention of tendon damage occurs, and much is common in both diet and physical activity. The role of the decision maker will be important here, where good knowledge and, not least, up-to-date knowledge flow from the specialist healthcare service. Much of this treatment should be seen in the signs of interaction. Several good actions have been launched as mentioned in the national strategy. I want to mention the Diaphon and the restoration of the diabetes workshop at Aker. But these are measures that happen at the other end, when people have become ill. The goal must be that these get less to do, that is. that fewer people get diabetes. Another majority of the Committee, i.e. the red-green and the left, believe that a plan aimed only at diabetes is not necessary, but that this needs to be seen in a wider context of public health perspectives and prevention in general. Many people who get diabetes are also at risk of other diseases, and it is important that this is seen in context, not as a fragment. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the objectives of the national strategy are difficult to implement without earmarked money for the plan, and they refer to the many opinions made on this matter. In this respect, the Party shall refer to its own budget, taking this into account. Diabetes prevention and sensitisation require a comprehensive effort on many arenas, and we're not good enough. Both treatment and rehabilitation lack the appropriate measures, and prevention is not sufficient. The psychological stress of having or getting diabetes should also be an area that we look at more closely. It is easy to blame the individual when diabetes occurs or latecomplications occur, but there are several factors involved – not everything can be prevented, not everything can be prevented, and not everything is someone's fault. I believe that it is important to take this further into account in the debate. The Council of State interaction reform may provide some tools, so that the parties think about prevention rather than repair, so that fewer people get the disease and fewer have late complications. The goal is clear, and everyone in the committee agrees that if we do the right thing at the right time, less will get diabetes 2 and other diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e249	The rapporteur explained very well how many people have this disease, and how many challenges we face in order to achieve good treatment and prevention. What's disunity is not the scale or what's needed, it's that it needs financial resources to do that task in the years to come. The goal of the diabetes plan when it was presented was to capture all the undiagnosed people. It is estimated that there are 125 000 undiagnosed, and it is now – three years later – that there are as many. Nothing has happened. Then the goal achievement is as bad as it can be. The aim of catching up undiagnosed people is to provide them with treatment and to teach them what the disease involves, so that they do not have late complications. So you haven't come anywhere. In the case of patients who know about the disease, there is also too much poor follow-up, and too poor a public offer to prevent it. Every year, about 500 Norwegian patients have to amputate parts of their feet because of ugly leg ulcers, and it costs the state at least 300 million. kr annually. Norway is far from Sweden to care for people with foot problems. In order to remedy this situation, all the hospitals were able to hire foot therapists, and you should have an outpatient diabetes team at all the hospitals in the country. It has not been introduced, it has not been requested. The Council of State has still said that it is an objective, but it is up to the hospitals how and when this is to be established. Where are the ambulance teams going? I ask. Even when the Council of State writes in the order document that this should be strengthened, health businesses are able to cut off these teams without any consequences. So there's got to be some kind of prevention. Then you also need to focus more on children with diabetes 1. It has been shown that children get very different follow-up. In schools, it's also very random from class to class how children with diabetes 1 are followed up. They need support, and they need guidance. Here, there should be a national standard for how these children should be at school, and also in kindergarten. Immigrants are a group that turns out to have a high incidence of diabetes, especially some parts of the immigrant population and especially women. They also do not receive treatment and follow-up that they can make use of. There's also a big challenge, and there hasn't been much longer than you were when you got to know these things. Very many people will experience kidney failure and need for dialysis or transplantation. Sensing complications coming after 15 to 20 years have very serious consequences for the patient. There is also a very high cost to society. I've mentioned the foot amputations. The loss of vision is also very serious for those who are affected by it. These late complications lead to a major change in the patient's life, and prevention costs less economically. It's saved many times if you avoid patients getting these late complications. It doesn't just help to talk about fruit and vegetables and about prevention by looking at it from a public health perspective. It's also about raising patients' awareness. Patients need to know what it means to live with this disease, and what it means if you can't regulate the disease and do the right things. However, it is also a matter of providing public health services in order to prevent latecomplications. It needs foot treatments, and you might have to look at a reimbursement scheme, so that those with neuropathies, for example, can get a refund, so that it is followed up. You have to make sure that these teams work against the hospitals, where there are many people with diabetes who are not being cared for. Public authorities must also take their responsibilities, not just by informing and saying that people should live properly, exercise and eat properly – even if it is an important part of it – but it must be followed up with financial resources. The plan has not been followed up with those means. This is the main reason why the good plan presented on the initiative of the Progress Party does not have a very good effect. It will also have no better effect in the years to come, if it is not followed up directly by means, so that it follows the escalation and makes clear demands both on health businesses and on municipalities that services must be introduced for those with diabetes, so that we avoid the major challenges we will face in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e268	I fully agree with Mr Giltun's description of the situation. There is no doubt that diabetes is a major challenge to public health, as the case-rapporteur also stated. Between 90 000 and 120 000 people have experienced diabetes in Norway. It is estimated that almost the same number of people have diabetes without being aware of it. Norway and the Nordic countries are at a global peak in the incidence of type 1 diabetes, without us knowing the reasons for this. The disease also poses a risk of late complication in the heart, eyes, kidneys and feet, to which Giltun’s representative was also involved. This leads to major health problems and a deterioration in the quality of life for those affected. Both the general public health work and the specific efforts against diabetes are important in this context. The co-operation administration took a take-off for public health and put in place a commitment that has continued during this period. We need to better prevent diabetes and other public diseases through better information on the importance of diet and physical activity. However, it is important to clarify that diabetes has its cause not only in lifestyle factors but also in genetic conditions. We need to limit the health damage caused by diabetes, through measures to make the diagnosis earlier and to treat it better. As mentioned in the suspension, several measures are already in place, such as the establishment of the Diaphon, self-help groups and information work. But we have to do far more in this area. On the right, we understand the impatience of the proposers in this area and support their intention to strengthen the diabetes plan with increased appropriations. However, we believe that this needs to be considered in the context of budgetary work, in order to address budgetary issues. It should also be noted that the Council of State and the Government have achieved a certain height of fall in this case, all the time preventing diabetes is an important theme of the Council’s standard lectures on the cooperation reform. Now it is well in this area, as in the other government health policy, few concrete measures. In most contexts, the Government boasts of how much money it has spent on health in the last three to four years, although the Council of State now believes that this does not improve health care. In the case of the offer to diabetics, the Government may not even boast of having increased appropriations in particular. If the Council of State is really as indignant as he expresses in terms of the poor offer to diabetics, the last possibility he has guaranteed to do something about this will be in the revised national budget. The right is looking forward to the Government's proposal to step up efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e281	The Christian People’s Party started in 2003 the important work through public health communication focusing on disease prevention, in particular in terms of diet and exercise. In this connection, the Minister of Health of my own party said: «In modern society we sit and eat until sickness and former death. Lifestyle-related diseases have enormous costs for individuals in terms of reducing quality of life and losing years of life, and social costs only increase. Relatively small changes in diet and exercise habits can have a major impact on better health and life.» This must be at the bottom of different health policy plans and strategies. An diabetes strategy is an important response to the challenges associated with this field. The challenges are so great that it is also required by an economic follow-up to the strategy. A major effort is being made to develop a strategy in a field, based on the assessment that there are major challenges that need to be addressed in this particular field. It is therefore very unfortunate whether the strategies are lacking or there is a bad follow-up. There will also be several other national strategies, such as: in the field of coal, national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, national strategy plan for work and mental health, national cancer strategy and action plan for the field of drugs. It is my sincere opinion that several of these strategies have not received necessary and comprehensive follow-up. They have little predictability as to the timing and the economy of the measures proposed. It gives uncertainty and little predictability. I have noticed, moreover, that the Government is not providing any action plans with concrete measures where responsibility and order of action are often dropped. More and more, the Government uses more overall strategies in its work, which is less predictable and creates uncertainty about implementation options and timings. This may also be the reason why we are considering today a proposal for a stepping up plan to achieve the objectives of the national strategy for the field of diabetes. This joins the Christian People's Party. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e297	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e300	Let me first commend the Norwegian Diabetes Association, which is a very active driver towards us in the Committee, to the Stortinget and to the Norwegian Health Service, so that we can understand how serious the diabetes epidemic is for society and how serious this disease can be for the individual. The arguments of the Diabetes Association have contributed to the fact that during the last two budgetary procedures, the Storting has granted more to prevent diabetes, to detect the disease in the past, and to help diabetics better master a life with a chronic disease. I have to say that it is incomprehensible that society has spent so long so little effort to prevent diabetes 2. There is no new knowledge in any way underpinning the examples provided by Health Councils in their lectures, and when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen travels around talking about public health and the interaction reform. It pays off a lot for society that there will be fewer physical inactivity and that the clearly unhealthy elements of the diet will be reduced. The same recipe can also prevent many other health damage and diseases. It is important that diabetes 2 is detected early, so that damage can be reduced and perhaps completely avoided. And then we have the big group that's just in danger. Another big problem is to help those over 100,000 people who have diabetes, master their everyday lives and avoid complications and injuries. I have read with interest the last issue of Diabetes, which tells of the offers offered by part of the training and rehabilitation centres that exist. That's a lot of positive that's achieved there. I look forward to the realization of all the local masterminds for all those with chronic diseases as part of the community health reform. It is important that people with the same harassment are taken, exchanged experience and given advice and help from professionals where they live, in order to avoid having to be admitted to an institution. I look forward to the day when good results from prevention and mastering centres are presented with as much pride as the most modern treatment services for those who will still need this. I am pleased that there is now a great deal of consensus about the need to save individuals and society for the huge losses that occur when you don't prevent well enough. Then we can use the gains we get to give better treatment to those who need it the most. I'm glad that people at risk of diabetes are only in line to become winners when the prevention effort is increasing. It is not possible for anyone to cancel the bet for this particular group right now. I am not as calm as I am, given whether the will is strong enough to give priority to prevention in a broad sense. A significant economic effort needs to be put in place here several years before the gain can be collected. The profit will be on budget chapters other than those where the expenditure has to be inserted. I sincerely hope that we can get these gains in money – through more years of life, healthier people, bigger and more pronounced workstocks, and not least older speakers, and that we will change rigid ways of making the government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e313	Diabetes has become a public disease, and it is important that more attention is paid to the development of special lowthreshold services. The stronger the frame, the more dialysis is needed. I think dialysis at home instead of in hospital will be a good tool in the future. Everyone is responsible for their own health, but prevention of diabetes is also about dietary training in schools. For this reason, the Left has seen money in its budget for several canteens and nutrition education. It is also about safe school grounds, walking and cycling roads and green prescriptions. It's very problematic that we can't bring down the price of fruit and green in the shops, while the cheapest food is the most unhealthy. In the left we're not moralists, we want everyone to have the opportunity to live the life they're well and want to live. But those with the worst advice are often the ones who have the worst health, so this is a problem. The choice is difficult, because the southernmost food is also the most expensive. That's what we think it's important to do something about. More important than a government assignment is that we provide good information and nutrition from childhood, so that we are as well equipped to live healthy as possible. Together with the Right, we support the intention of the proposers to ensure the follow-up to the Diabetes Strategy Plan by increasing the level of commitment to the objective, but we believe that this should be assessed in the context of regular budgetary procedure, and therefore propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Protocol. I take up the proposal from the Left and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e326	The representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e329	Diabetes is one of the great public diseases of our time. The Health Directorate reports that as many as 265,000 Nordics can have diabetes. As several have been involved, half of these have not been diagnosed. The strong increase in diabetes affects too many countries, and it is a challenge to create good strategies to combat the spread of this disease. The government is taking the worrying development seriously, and we have launched more measures to prevent the development of diabetes. Diabetes is one of several chronic diseases related to lifestyle, and efforts are needed in many areas to meet the challenges of chronic lifestyle diseases. The government has focused specifically on prevention measures in the fields of diet, physical activity and smoking cessation. Before the summer, the Health Directorate will launch a set of common clinical guidelines for diabetes — both for primary and specialist healthcare. This is an important step in ensuring the equivalence and overall follow-up of patients with diabetes. We follow up on the work of an information campaign aimed at people with an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. The campaign is planned to be launched at the same time as the clinical guidelines. The national strategy for the field of diabetes points to good interaction between local health services and specialist health services as a prerequisite for achieving good results. There is a need for a good flow of information between primary health services and specialist health services to enable the patient to master the disease. In the 2009 budget, we proposed 40 million. to interaction measures in the area of prevention. Here, we expect good projects that can bring good benefits in the field of diabetes. If we are to prevent the spread of diabetes and help those who have been diagnosed, we must bet on prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. We need to think again about how to build and improve health provision to follow-up risk groups. In the interaction reform, which we will present before the summer, the aim is to arrive at legal and economic instruments that will pay off to municipalities to bet on prevention and early action, so that diseases such as type 2 do not develop into a chronic suffering with life-threatening complications. Let me just add that I understand the impatience that I experience lies in the proposal for a representative. It is important that the type of plans represented by the National Diabetes Strategy be followed up by the current government. I think we can show examples that we're following up. There are increased appropriations, for example: to physical activity, there is an increase in smoking cessation, there is an increase in dietary response, and so now there are national guidelines and information campaigns, and we are looking for this type of diabetes-oriented project when we are about to distribute funds for interaction. And of course, you can always discuss whether we should have done even more, and if what we're doing is good enough. But now, in the context of the interaction reform, we are really deeply involved in the issues related to the development of lifestyle-based disorders, chronic disorders, the whole community health perspective, where we are building up a community health service with 50 pst. more doctors, with decentralized, outpatient teams in the field of drugs, psychiatry, coal and diabetes, and at all, re-entering the entire economic system – this is because it would be profitable to prevent people from getting amputations due to diabetes, rather than being the world’s best at amputating when things have gone wrong. Yes, I understand that the role of the opposition is to criticize, but I personally believe that what we are doing now in this area is a review that is unparalleled in close political history. So the criticism that we do not take this health development seriously, I have to say I do not feel particularly struck by.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e354	It is gratifying that the Council of State has also been involved in diabetes and the serious challenges we face. What is involved in this matter is the economic follow-up of the plan. It doesn't get any better, as I see it, if you leave more to the municipalities through framework transfers, where that piece is to be taken care of. Nor are the municipalities responsible for a foot not being amputated, or for a person not getting kidney failure, that is what health companies, or the state in total, have done. That's the whole health economic account we want to see the performance of. The progress party is very concerned that this plan is actually not being followed up because of lack of funds. Why will the Council not provide earmarked funds for the follow-up of this plan, as other plans have been necessary in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e363	I have answered the questions asked by the representative Giltun here, but she refuses to hear the answers and only continues to ask the questions. I will now try to answer one more question. We are following this plan with concrete means. I just told you from the pulpit that we, for example. now launches a major information campaign related to this plan. Then the representative Giltun would like to think that it should have been done even more, but it would be a little pointless to continue the debate that we are not doing anything. So we're doing something, we're doing concrete steps to follow up this plan. So it's quite clear to say that we should have done even more. But it is not true that this plan is not being followed up. It is followed up, and then we have to discuss the level of follow-up. Then I think the representative Giltun reveals a rather alarming lack of understanding about the whole of the health-economic incentive structures we have in Norway. Through the interaction reform, we need to make it visible that what we are doing now is the most important thing we can do, including: for the diabetes group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e372	I think it is great that the Council of State has a great deal of energy and power attached to the interaction reform, and I very much appreciate that. I believe that many of the measures we hope to get there could certainly contribute to a better health care in this area too, not least in terms of prevention. It may take some time to get started, and as we know that there will now be a big message in June, is my question to the Council of State: Given that so much needs to be solved through the inter-action reform in various areas, when does the Council of State see that the first changes associated with an interaction reform can come about? Will it be in 2010, or will it be later?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e379	We are not finished with either the announcement or the budget for 2010, but my ambition is that we should already see clear action in the 2010 budget towards what the big deal of interaction will be about, i.e. the construction of a significantly stronger community health service. Now this depends a little bit on what happens to the choice. Given that the current government is continuing, the plan is that we should now systematically introduce the steps that will be outlined in the interaction reform over the next major period, but that a start will be made visible already in the 2010 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e384	It was the Council of State's response to the representative, Davøy, who made me a little curious. After all, it has been announced by the Council of State that the interaction reform will be presented in the form of a large-scale notification and that this large-scale communication will be sent to the Stortinget in June of this year. It means, as far as I understand, that under no circumstances will this collapse interfere with the matter. Nor will the current Health and Welfare Committee intervene. If the sitting government were to be replaced as a result of the outcome of the roll-out election, the roll-out message will probably not be dealt with by the next big one either. Does it not suggest that the Council of State should perhaps think again about the timing of presenting such a case to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e393	We can't get done until June. We're now working intensely. We started work on the reform in September 2008, and are presenting a big message in June 2009. I mean, it signals a great pace. Then, of course, we have a democracy, and if the people don't want the majority you have now, they get a different majority who then have to decide whether or not to leave this big message. My hope is that even if there were to be a government shift in the autumn elections, the quality and content of that message should be such that any new government will hopefully be positive to leave the message in the Storting, so that the new enlargement can deal with it as quickly as possible. I feel that there is no major cross-political disagreement as to which direction we are going. I get first of all criticism here in the Chamber that things are going too slow, but the arrangements for the reform, as it is being discussed outside, are, of course, a broad consensus. So there's a chance that a new government will leave it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e400	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e405	It has been interesting to follow the debate. The impression is that the 265,000 people who have diabetes in Norway have it against the votes of the opposition. It sounds like this could have been resolved in the revised national budget, and of course it is not. It's not that the number of cases of diabetes has gone up after we got a new government – and went down when we had the previous one. It is precisely the complexity of the development of diabetes that needs to be absorbed, because there are no simple solutions to reverse this in the short term. It is interesting to note that type 2 diabetes was almost absent between 1940 and 1945, and that is because this is a wealth phenomenon that is likely to increase over the years if you are unable to reverse the trend in diet. Gunvald Ludvigsen stated that the most expensive food is the healthiest. In fact, he is only partly right, because a good number of studies have been carried out both in Norway and abroad that show that, unfortunately, many of those who develop type 2 diabetes have a diet that is relatively expensive in itself. It may be unhealthy food, it may be food that contains plenty of sugar and is also expensive. So it's not certain that having a healthy diet, eating fruit and vegetables, is a major cost to the family. In this way, the Council of State has presented in a good manner the measures that are in the process of being implemented. One of the really major challenges in tackling the interaction reform by the Stortinget will be to take the challenge to which the Council of State invites, namely to start turning the trend from a clean repair society into drying to prevent in a long-term perspective where results will not be seen in one or two years' time, but perhaps only in a ten or twenty-year perspective. The big challenge for just diabetes is that it's not given that you'll see results tomorrow of what's going on today, you have to see it in a much longer perspective. It is therefore also reasonable to take the necessary time to target the actions that are being implemented and to speed up this process in order to achieve something in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e430	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e441	The Health and Care Committee was visiting Norwegian Patient Compensation while we were dealing with the matter in the Committee, and their first word to us was that the patient is always in focus. Unfortunately, it is so that it fails. It fails where there are people, and mistreatment within the healthcare system can have more dramatic consequences than in most other places. And any mistreatment of a patient is a mistreatment too much. After all, the goal of a dream society must be that no one should be mistreated. But whatever the quality system, there will be mistakes, even with all the new solutions and new knowledge and new insights. The matter we are dealing with, deals with those who have been mistreated, or believe that they have been mistreated, and who have therefore filed a complaint with the Patient Complaint. In 2008, 3 400 new cases of Norwegian patient injury were brought to the attention. Behind each case there is a human being, a human being who is entitled to a quick and secure procedure. 3,400 things are a lot. The rapporteurs and an overall committee share the concern that the procedure period is too long – 421 days we were informed that it was in 2008. It is very worrying that Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation is self-evident that the treatment queue will grow during 2009. The Party of Advances, the Right and the Christian People's Party shall promote in the vote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the Norwegian Patient Compensation Scheme in order to improve patients’ rights and conditions.’ The Government Parties and the Left are not in favour of this proposal, on the grounds that there have been several reviews of the activities of the NPE in recent years. Therefore, the government parties do not see the need for further reviews. As we see it now, reviews can quickly create more unrest and additional costs, without doing anything about what is really important, namely increasing procedural capacity. The entire committee refers to the budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2008-2009, where a Joint Committee asks the Government to assess, in the context of the revised national budget, the need for increased appropriations to strengthen the capacity of the NPE and thus reduce the time frame for the procedure for applications for damages to patients. Regardless of whether or not one is in favour of a review, which is part of the opposition, the Committee agrees with the main objective, and it is to increase the procedural capacity of Norwegian patients’ compensation by several means, thus reducing the procedure time for the applicant. As I started with, many people contact and apply – I think there were 1 400 people last year. Those who have been mistreated have a right to a quick and tidy course around their replacement case, and it expresses an overall committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e459	The main task of the Norwegian patient damages is to determine whether the claimant is entitled to compensation and to determine the amount of compensation. It shall also build up a database as a statistical basis for the health sector’s work on quality improvements and injury prevention, and they shall inform the public, patients and healthcare about the patient injury regime. As we see it, there's a great potential for improvement on all three points. The Committee has pointed out on several occasions that the NPE process is long as a result of a large number of cases and considers this to be unfortunate for the benefit of those seeking compensation. The civil officer has also pointed out that this is unfortunate. In today's morning broadcast at the NRK, we could hear that this is still a big problem, and that a case handler had a whole 90 cases. The 2004 evaluation of Norwegian patient compensation highlights the need for more direct contact between the patient and the NPE and more information to the public. It is positive that the NPE has established a service centre to strengthen its service to patients seeking compensation, and that the NPE accepts those who want to meet personally, and that a case handler in some cases goes on a home visit. Decisions may also be appealed against to the Patient Injury Division. But as we know, there are many patients who do not know that they have these possibilities, and there are also many who do not dare take advantage of the remedies. The Party also considers that there is reason to consider whether the NPE can be experienced as a kind of counterparty to the claimant, contrary to what is intended. We would like to point out that the use of a lawyer in the compensation cases has changed over time, and that the reason for the extension of the use of legal aid should be the need for acute competence. We think it would be interesting to look at how it is informed about the use of legal aid and who is given access to such assistance, and about the changes from 2009, which means that only lawyers with a fixed pay rate are now being used, have a negative impact on the claimant. Providing skilled assistance to help the patient shed light on their case is important in order to prevent situations in which the claimant does not have a legitimate claim due to a lack of assistance. NPE makes its medical assessments by means of its own consultants. Where these cannot be used, the opinions of specialists across the country are obtained with the relevant medical professional background. It is the individual caseworker in the NPE who finds out the experts in each case. It is obvious that the expert is not incapacitated, but the NPE itself does not take a stand on this. The question of viability is left to the individual expert. In exceptional cases, foreign experts’ opinions are also sought. Norwegian professional environments in different specialities are in many cases small. It is therefore very likely that the medical expert in a case knows the person or persons who caused the patient injury. It is difficult to criticise your own colleagues, and this may affect the expert’s assessment of an event where a patient injury may have occurred. Increased use of experts from other Nordic countries will be an alternative. We also believe that it should be assessed whether the scheme works in such a way that all claimants are given equal opportunity to arrive at their claims. In many cases, the waiting time for handling cases is too long. That's something we know about, and that we've taken up a lot of times. One of the intentions of setting up a government administrative body to deal with claims in the health sector was to provide for a short treatment period. For persons who have been subjected to incorrect treatment, a long period of time may be an additional impression. It is therefore important that the financial compensation benefits victims within the shortest possible time. The Party also considers that there is reason to consider the practice of shortening the amount of compensation on the basis of the short life of the injured party. There have been many individual cases showing that the scheme has weaknesses and that patients’ rights and conditions should be improved. In several cases, the injured party has a clear feeling that discrimination is taking place, especially in relation to the assessment of the injured party, it should be aware of the danger and assessment carried out by the NPE, where they find that the injured party would carry out the treatment if he knew of the hazard. This becomes a claim and an assessment that will not always be correct, as people consider different even when the risk of treatment is known. It has been important to put in place a comprehensive system that initially has the task of ensuring patients’ rights and the security of compensation when they are harmed by healthcare treatment, and we still believe that there is room for improvement in the NPE system that will strengthen the individual patient’s rights. A revision and review of the scheme should therefore have clear ambitions to reduce the duration of treatment. However, it is also important to consider how the statistical basis for health sector work on quality improvements and damage prevention has been used to prevent damage in the future. I take up the suggestions in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e482	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e485	First, let me correct two minor errors that have arisen in the request for a discharge in the Committee on the Right. They create a certain confusion for the one who reads through the setting. One error is that the right is included in the comment at the top of page 2 of the Committee’s position, which reads as follows: ‘A second majority, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left, consider that there is no need to impose an additional round of review on the Government...’. The right shall not be included in that remark, and the attentive reader will be aware of that, as we are part of the proposed proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The second error is that the right is not listed as co-proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We have to be. This is also evident when you read the comment in the same column on page 2 – where the Right is inside with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – which is about the use of experts. President! I notice that the clock is not started. I really appreciate that, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e507	It was to get the corrections in place before the post began!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e510	Brilliant! Thank you very much! So to the content of the matter. It is a tab of a much larger problem, namely that in Norway we have a very well-developed law on patients’ rights, including rights to complain and to try complaints. The weakness of a large number of rights regulations is that they have been easy to build on an implicit assumption, namely that it is a self-service shop. That is to say, the rights depend on the rightholder being able to follow them up himself, and if the rightholder either does not have sufficient knowledge of his rights or sufficient resources to follow them up, social inequalities could easily arise. This is one of the reasons why we have stressed in the vote that it is appropriate to look more closely at whether the changes in access to legal assistance – I am thinking of maximum salary rates – might have an unintended side effect in the sense that someone who may have a legitimate claim for compensation does not actually get it because of lack of or lack of assistance. It's completely unacceptable in this case. To the extent that people have legitimate requirements, they should also be able to be sure that they are given technical assistance so that the requirements are properly tested. I also agree with the representative Giltun that individual matters that have been promoted in the media lately have created the impression that one can risk not having his rights fulfilled on the basis of the assumption that the patient's condition is such that the patient will resign at death in a short time. This is why it is used to justify a rather severe reduction in the patient’s right to compensation. It's most incomprehensible to people. It should also be for the legislator, at least a bit on the way, because it is a way of arguing that reinforces an impression that we have also mentioned in the suspension, namely that the patient compensation scheme is a counterpart to the rightholders, and that the main purpose of the State is to ensure that the expenditure of the State is as low as possible. In fact, that is not the purpose of the establishment of the patient compensation scheme. The purpose is for rightholders to have their legitimate claims met. So to what I might say is the most important thing in this context, the long waiting times. It is quite unacceptable that such schemes should operate with increasing waiting times and increasing queues. It creates an even stronger impression that rightholders are not really being taken seriously. One thing is that you have to be prepared for failure to cooperate. Of course, it must be accepted if the legislation so requires. What you can't expect anyone to accept is that you have to wait many months for the case to be dealt with at all. It causes people who are often already in a traumatic situation, an additional strain. I'm going to think that the burden must be perceived as perhaps the greatest, the experience of not being taken seriously here. In its alternative state budget, the right proposed earmarking 2 million. kr, with reference to the Civil Ombudsman's quite strong criticism of the waiting times. It had not solved the problem, but it had at least been a step in the right direction in reducing the unacceptable waiting times. The entire Committee has now put in place a rather strong lead towards the Government to return to solving this problem in the revised national budget. I hope that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e527	The representative of Inge Wohnung has then removed the right in the outline of the majority on page 2 of the option, at the top left. He has also introduced the Right as one of the proposers for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e530	It is an overall objective of our healthcare that these are safe and secure. When mistakes and unfortunate events occur, it is important that there is a complaint about what has happened. Furthermore, a claim must be made where damage has occurred. It is very serious, as I see it, when the Civil Ombudsman sends a message to the Storting that there is a long procedure in Norwegian patient damages. Waiting several years for a complaint to be dealt with and getting paid compensation is experienced by many as an additional burden. That is very unfortunate, and I assume that the Government is following this up in the revision of the budget in May. The government needs to review the use of experts in Norwegian patient damages. In this context, we have a proposal together with the Left and the Advance Party, asking the Government to review the use of experts in matters of the NPE. Vigdis Giltun explained in a good way the reason for this, so I'm not going to repeat it here. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is also an error in the setting on page 2, column 1, paragraph 3: The Christian People's Party is not going to agree here to propose that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes. This is also evident from what is stated under the «Recommendation of the Committee» – where it is right – and the Christian People's Party is on proposal No. 1, which is identical to the draft representative. This is an incursion that unfortunately happened during the release.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e541	Laila Bavøy has also made a correction in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e545	One of the major factors in this case is the long waiting period – an unacceptable long waiting period when it comes to case management and decision-making. Closely everyone who has been involved in this – the Civil Ombudsman, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – is of the same opinion. We in the committee are of the same opinion, and even NPE is of the same opinion. It's simply a fact that everyone is some thing that needs to be done here. As has also been said before in this debate, a Joint Committee has entered the budget. S. No 11 for 2008-2009, asks the Ministry of Health and Welfare to assess the need for increased promises in the context of the 2009 revised national budget. That should be a pretty clear signal to the department. First of all, it's a good arrangement in this country with this compensation scheme. Everyone is probably some that she has worked well, but it is true that when people who are looking for compensation, never – had I almost said – get a response, or are placed in a queue that is incomprehensible, she is perceived as being so bad that if we can't solve this, one will basically get in trouble. We simply have to resolve this, so here are two things to do: the handling time has to be reduced considerably, and the cooling system that has been established has to get rid of it. As the case-speaker also pointed out, the Committee has been visiting the NPE, and we have been given good information on what is their everyday life. They have had their problems, and they say that if they are to keep the budget this year, they have to cut down – that is, go against what is really needed. So here I think there's nothing else to do for the Government but to provide resources, and I assume that the Council of State has it in mind when the revised budget is going to be submitted to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e554	The system of Norwegian patients’ compensation – NPE – must work as well as possible to ensure legal certainty for those who need to have their case tried. The number of new cases has grown by 60 pst. from 2003 to 2006. In 2007 and 2008, the number of new cases has decreased. From 2003 to 2006, the operating budget of NPE increased by 35 pst. Since then, the appropriations for the treatment of public health issues have been stable. There has been a very high ‘overturn’ of NPE employees in 2007 and 2008. The establishment has lost a number of key staff members, especially lawyers, even though the agency has tried to stem from wage policy interventions. Unfortunately, significant residues in the NPE have been built up. New cases are placed in a separate queue and are assigned to case handlers on a case-by-case basis. By the end of 2007, there were 1 400 things in line. The number has been reduced by approx. 250 cases in 2008 and further reductions are expected in 2009. However, this effort will take time to become visible as a decrease in the average duration of proceedings. Until 2008, the average duration of proceedings was about two years. The average duration of proceedings increased by more than 150 days for cases completed in 2008. The length of the procedure is unfortunate, in particular because the result is of great importance to applicants. I have noticed that the Committee on the State Budget for 2009 has asked the Ministry to assess the need for increased appropriations for NPE in the context of the revised national budget for 2009. Such an assessment will be part of the revised national budget. In the context of the follow-up to Document No. 4:1 for 2008-2009, the Ministry will provide specific information to the Civil Ombudsman on developments in the course of the proceedings and the closure of the cooling system. As regards access to the personal meeting of the claimant during the course of proceedings, NPE informs that several meetings are being held this year. It happens in NPE's premises, on home visits, as it was about. 100 of them in 2007, and there is extensive personal contact per year. Phone. NPE learns that many patients are satisfied with having only written contact. NPE will keep the patient informed during the procedure. Proposalers have asked for a review of NPE practice in measuring cases. If I have understood the wording correctly, the proposers believe that NPE's practice has not been in line with the law in force in several cases. The proposers refer to NOU 1992:6 ‘Passion in case of patient injury’, which lists different items covered by the personal injury claim. The scheme has paid more than NOK 4 billion in compensation to patients and relatives since 1988. In the period 2006-2007, it was paid close to NOK 1 billion, and in 2008 658 million was paid. kr. For loss measurement, the compensation law applies. This law also regulates the measurement of compensation in other areas of society, both within and outside the public sector. In addition, case-law is generally of major importance for the compensation assessment in Norwegian law. The decision of the NPE in individual cases may be appealed against to the Patient Injury Division. It is important in the interests of legal protection. In addition, the decision of the sufferer may be referred to the courts. Of the rejections contained in the NPE, 40 will be spent. charged with the Patient Injury Study. 10-15 pst. of these are being converted. A very small number of cases involving the judicial system end up with a different result for the patient. I share the majority's view that there is no need for a further review of the Norwegian patient compensation scheme. The appeal mechanism established by the Patient Injury Act is important to verify whether NPE’s practices are in line with current law. The decision of the NPE in individual cases may be appealed against to the sufferer, and may also be brought before the courts. It has not been long since such a review was requested by the proposers. In the 2004 report, the NPE did not find a ‘system failure’ in the State Consultant. It was pointed out that there were no indications to say that the NPE was too strict in its regulatory practice. We are continuously monitoring developments in the NPE process and will come back to Stortinget with an assessment in connection with the revised national budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e589	I listened with great interest to the statements of the Council of State and found it in some respects in relation to the Committee which has unanimously asked for an assessment in the context of the revised national budget. I would have been pleased if the Council of State would have also confirmed that this means that not only will there be some words in the proposal in the context of the revision, but that the Council of State agrees with the assessment the entire committee assumes, namely that the level of appropriations available after the budget decision in the autumn will by no means, in all likelihood, lead to any solution to the problem of queues/waits. Then there was an additional remark: the Council of State did not comment that from 1 January 2009 the area is quite wide. There may also be talk that the number of cases is going to increase quite sharply in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e596	When I say we're going to make an assessment of this in the context of the revised national budget, it's of course based on assessing the resource situation, i.e. the appropriations for the NPE. There is no doubt that the Committee has some good points and that the representative has argued well for the need for increased appropriations in the Chamber today. But at the same time, I am asking for an understanding that I am not able today to answer unequivocally yes or no to the question of what is going on in the revised national budget. We are working on the revised national budget in the Ministry, but we have not yet started in the Government. This process just has to go its own time. There is no doubt that the need for increased appropriations from both the representative and the committee is well argued for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e601	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e606	I shall not prolong the debate, but I forgot to say that the Left shall enter a comitology note on page 2, paragraph 3, of the vote. We are some with the setting in this case. What is the point here, and as we have been confirmed today, is that the Council of State and the Department have taken seriously what is needed, that there are no new distributions, but simply resources for processing capacity. That's what's the main point here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e613	The representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen has, in a committee comment on page 2 of section three of the setting, inserted the Left where the Christian People's Party stood earlier. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e631	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e640	This is a matter on which there is broad agreement in the Committee. The proposers consider it necessary to establish a national competence centre for children with brain damage so that these children can get a good offer in Norway. An overall committee stresses that children with congenital or acquired brain damage should be offered professional treatment as soon as possible. The nationwide supervision of the provision of child rehabilitation services by the Health Authority in 2006 revealed considerable variation and significant weaknesses in the provision of habilitation services, including the provision of brain-damaged children. A report from the Social and Health Directorate, published in July 2005, concluded that the treatment and rehabilitation services offered to people with head injuries are varied and deficient. The report shows, among other things: the low level of early rehabilitation in all regions and the need for substantial national efforts to strengthen supply. A unanimous committee considers that a national centre of expertise and treatment will contribute to the necessary strengthening of the offer to children and support the proposal. This can contribute to the development of competences and the dissemination of knowledge that can strengthen the provision of services both in health enterprises and in municipalities. The Committee considers that it is necessary to assess whether high-specialised functions should be localised to the Centre in order to ensure sufficient quality in the offer. Families with children who have congenital or acquired brain damage often experience very bureaucratic and poorly coordinated auxiliaries. This leads to considerable added stress for both parents and children. Therefore, the interaction between health and care services needs to be strengthened in order to provide children and their families with a more comprehensive and coherent range of services. These parents have a very valuable competence for their children and their needs and experience in health and care services. It is important that this competence is recognised and included in the design of the offer. It is also necessary to facilitate the exchange of experiences between families and thus to provide valuable support for each other. There is a need for transparent information on different help services and better guidance and support for families. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2007-2008, the majority of the Committee proposed the establishment of a resource centre for families with children who have acquired or had congenital head injury. This has not been followed up by the Government. A majority consisting of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, promote the following proposals for decisions: ‘The government is asking for the start of work to establish a national centre of competence and treatment for children with brain damage.’ The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party refer in their comments to the work of the Government and its underlying agencies in this area. They do not support this proposal but will attach the matter to the Minutes. I expect that they themselves will explain this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e667	The rapporteur has now presented the Committee's position in a good manner. As she had in mind, there is full consensus in the Committee on the description of the need for good rehabilitation for brain-damaged children and the importance of the existence of an overall occupational environment. This was also one of the themes of the Committee's study trip to Copenhagen a short time ago, where we included: visited Hvidovre Hospital and looked at the offer given there. In particular, it is important that the offer is received as early as possible and is specialised and aggregated. The Committee refers to several reports that point to shortcomings and inequalities in the offer being made today, and it agrees that a national centre of competence and treatment for children with brain damage could contribute to the necessary strengthening of the offer to these children in terms of the development of skills, knowledge dissemination, interaction and coordination, on which the rapporteur was involved. The government parties have a separate note in the vote, where we point out that child rehabilitation is mentioned in the National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation, and that the Health Authority is also working on an action plan for the rehabilitation of children and young people. We also say something about the importance of interaction between specialist health services and municipalities, and we note that it was announced in the budget that a new system for managing rural and multiregional functions and national centres of expertise in the specialist health service has been put in place. The parties to the Government therefore have a proposal that the proposal for a representative should be annexed to the Minutes, and I am promoting that proposal. This is of course related to the fact that the Government is working on issues relating to this proposal, and then it is natural for us to give the Government time to work on it. But as the rapporteur also suggested, I think it is right to say that this is more an expression of how these kinds of issues are dealt with, how the respective points of view are expressed in the vote than there is any major political disagreement in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e678	The representative, Dag Ole Tegen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e681	It is a fact that Norway does not have an appropriate offer for this patient group that we are talking about here. In Norway it is approx. 6000 children between 0 and 7 years of age with congenital or acquired brain damage, and the number is naturally much higher if you look at the age group up to 18 years. Many of these depend on the support of their public or parents throughout their lives. It is important that a national offer is put in place, that there is not a hundred percent dependent on international clinics in order for these children to receive good treatment. We've witnessed several things in the media where we've seen the parents fight to get help for their children. These include Hvidovre in Denmark, visited by the Committee, where a Norwegian patient has recently received treatment. But there was a fight that the parents had to run through the media to get these rights fulfilled. We can't have it like that in the future. We believe that it is important that there should be a good offer also in Norway, as well as that we may need to make use of foreign competence among ourselves. We also know about parents who have traveled to the United States, who travel to Russia, to start treatment or to learn about the treatment of their children. When they come home to Norway, there are often major problems in continuing treatment, because they do not have the resources to do so. They continue the fight for months — and sometimes years — before they can continue to receive treatment. In order to achieve a comprehensive treatment provision, we believe it is important to establish a national centre of expertise – a centre of expertise capable of building up competences, which can carry out research, which can provide treatment, and which can also cooperate with municipalities and not least with parents and users. Because they have an enormous competence themselves. I have often been very impressed by the parents of these children – over how much they spend on energy and work for the good of their children, while they have to put their heads in the wall in order to get a proper treatment. We believe that this will be a very important measure, that it will help with the overall provision of treatment and rehabilitation, and that users will be much closer. We had actually hoped, since the entire committee agrees that there is a need, that you could join this proposal and not just attach it to the Minutes. Because it is urgent, and there is no reason why Norway should not be able to offer this to parents and sick children alike to countries around us. We should have enough skills to handle it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e694	We all like to believe that Norway is at the forefront in all health areas. But unfortunately, we probably don't. When it comes to treating children with congenital or acquired brain damage, we have a long way to go. We're simply not good enough. That is why this proposal for a representative is very important. The serious points made by the Health Authority in 2006 indicate an urgent need to put in place both competences and equivalent, comprehensive services. There is no disagreement in the Committee, as many have pointed out, that we need a national centre of expertise and treatment in this area. We need the dissemination of skills and knowledge, and not least the guidance that such a centre can provide. However, although everyone acknowledges this need, the government parties will not agree to the proposal to start work on setting up the Centre. They refer to a work under way on a new comprehensive system for managing rural and multiregional functions and national centres of excellence. However, how the management system should be in the future for centres of expertise and treatment should not prevent the start of work with a new centre now. In my opinion, it should also not be necessary to wait for the input of regional health companies in October 2009. The need for a national centre of competence and treatment for children with brain damage is recognised by the entire committee, by all the parties. So why don't we start work now? If we don't, it goes both winter and spring before we get started. The committee was powerfully impressed when we recently visited Hvidovre Hospital in Denmark. They could indicate spectacular good results in the treatment of children with brain damage. They could show that traumatized children could reach a good functional level relatively quickly. For example, 90 pst could be. go even after one year. And here we are talking about children with great injuries. In fact, Hvidovre Hospital prioritised the intake and treatment of the most damaged. The rehabilitation of cognitive functions was characterized by more varied results, depending on the extent of damage in the brain. The second thing that impressed Hvidovre was the overall scheme: early treatment after intensive stabilisation in an acute hospital, then an average treatment of three months at the Neurorehabilitation Department at the hospital. However, before spending time at a local rehabilitation centre or at home, a comprehensive action plan was in place, and meetings were already held with all the relevant municipal authorities, together with the child’s parents. We were actually very impressed. Our neighbouring country Denmark has a lot of experience. The establishment of a corresponding environment of competence in Norway is urgent. In my opinion, we cannot wait, but we must get started as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e709	Children with brain damage and other disabled children shall be offered a good and relevant offer. This means both sufficient capacity and good quality supply. These children need a wide-ranging and long-term habilitation service. A good habilitation result is the responsibility of both the municipality and the specialist health service. As a follow-up to the Strategy Plan — Habilitation of Children, launched in 2004, a number of development projects have been launched. The aim has been to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation services for children and young people with disabilities and their parents and to develop new knowledge in the field. About half of the projects have been aimed at developing intensive habilitation or training facilities. Other areas of action have been the development of follow-up programmes, the strengthening of information and training for parents, children and young people and the rehabilitation of children with chronic diseases. A lot of good work is going on, but there are still many challenges. The national supervision of disability rehabilitation services of children with disabilities in 2006 showed that the services functioned well in many places, both in municipalities and in specialist health services. But there were also great variations in the supply and weaknesses in the provision of habilitation services to children, including children with brain damage. The proposers consider it necessary to establish a separate national centre of competence for children with brain damage. As a follow-up to the National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation, the Health Directorate is now working on a new action plan for the habilitation of children and young people, to be presented by 1 July this year. Equivalence in the provision of services should be central, as well as how we can ensure better competence and skills building for children with brain damage. We will have a new system for managing national and multi-regional functions and national centres of expertise in the specialist health service. This work is in progress. Strengthening the competence of children with brain damage must be seen in the light of this work. In order only to repeat the process, this year, in the mission document of regional health companies, on the basis of established criteria, I have asked for a comprehensive proposal to be completed by 1 October this year on which national and multi-regional functions of the specialist health service are needed in a five-year perspective and where these should be located. The issue of the creation of a separate national centre of expertise for children and young people with brain damage, I believe, is right to clarify in this context, and in the light of the action plan presented by the Health Directorate on 1 July of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e730	We know that the Government in many different treatments in the field of health, such as: heart and cancer surgery, which requires a high level of competence, wishes to centralise these performances. I assume the council agrees that the brain is no less complicated than the rest of the body. But when it comes to treating children with brain damage, you don't want a centralization, and you don't want a national competence center. Does the Council of State think that it is possible to build up skills decentralised to help children with brain damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e738	I haven't said that we don't need a national competence centre. I have said that we are now working on this issue – in which areas are we going to have national centres of excellence, and in which case are they to be located? We are now addressing this whole question of competence centres for children with brain damage into that work, while at the same time looking at it in the context of an action plan from the Health Directorate, which has just acquired competence and competence building for children with brain damage as a topic. We get it on 1 July, and so regional health companies have a deadline by 1 October to come up with a complete proposal on how to build up these kind of national centres of expertise. And then, in the light of that, we're going to implement the decisions we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e743	As I was in my post earlier, the parents of these children have a valuable competence in relation to their children and their needs, and have a wide experience from the health and care services. We believe that this competence must be recognised and included in the design of the offers, and provision must be made for families to share experiences and thus be a valuable support for each other. They also need transparent information on different help services, and better guidance and support. As I also pointed out, the majority of the committee proposed that a resource centre should be set up for families with such children, but it has not been followed up by the Government. Then my question is, why has this not been followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e748	There can be no doubt that if we now decide to set up a national competence centre for children with brain damage, guidance, follow-up and work towards their parents must be a very important part of the tasks of such a centre of competence. We cannot have a centre of expertise for children with brain damage and somewhere else – with another organisation – with a resource centre to follow up parents. This must be two sides of the same thing. That's why I want to say that the question that Mr. Sjøli is dealing with here is going to be a natural part of the assessments and investigations we're doing now when we're going to decide whether to set up a national competence centre for children with brain damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e753	The Council of State says that ‘new system of governance’ should be set up by the centres of competence. I can't see this being relevant to the fact that you can't start the work now. So the Council of State says that regional health businesses have been given the task of looking at specialist health services at national and regional level in this country, and there will be a call in October. But I don't fully understand that, because our position says that the Committee – the whole crowd – ‘believes that a national centre of competence and treatment for children with brain damage will contribute to the necessary strengthening of the offer’. So the whole of the Great Britain has said that there is a need for a national centre of excellence in this area. Then why do we have to wait for an administrative and professional investigation, when the Stortinget actually says today that we need it? I don't understand why we can't start the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e758	I am very impressed with the impatience of the representative of Bavøy on this topic. It seems that children with brain damage are something that has occurred during the reign of this government. But there were probably some children with brain damage in the previous ageing period, too, as well, among other things. The Christian People's Party ruled the Ministry of Health, for two to three years, so if it's so obvious that you have to do this, it's very strange that you have to wait for a government change before it should happen. But we're taking it seriously, and we're working very hard on it. However, I would like to believe that the representative Davøy is also interested in a professional assessment of how good child rehabilitation services can be organised, that we are interested in getting the Health Directorate's action plan in this field, and that we are taking it into account in the process that is now in place for setting up national centres. We do, and so we have at least significantly greater progress in this area than the Christian People's Party did with four years in the government position in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2295]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e779	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e788	First of all, as far as the committee is concerned, I do feel that many have tried to reach a far-reaching consensus, but I also have to say that here, as in very many other cases, the government does not want to go further on the proposals that have come – whether they are reasonable or not. Of course, the opposition is united on the proposals available. We very much agree on the importance of getting both rehabilitation and rehabilitation in place for people who have received cochlea implants, and we believe that we need to get a system that follows this from a to, in a way that looks after the individual that applies in a good way. I expect the government parties to be able to answer for their comments themselves. First, let me begin by agreeing fully with the need for a better hearing care provision in Norway. Today, we are dealing with a very important area, namely the system of rehabilitation and training of patients through cochlea implantation. The patient group awaiting cochlea implants is often referred to long waiting times for both investigation and surgery. This is a problem that the Progress Party has raised repeatedly. In addition, I would like to mention the need for patients who benefit from the implant on both ears to have an offer to do so – it should be lacking. There is further reason to note that many of those who get such an implant after losing hearing at an adult age may come back to work and thus avoid becoming unretired, as many become when they lose hearing. The Progress Party has therefore previously asked the Government to bring a case before the Storting where a plan of measures is submitted to ensure that all of those benefiting from a CI operation are able to obtain such an offer within specified timescales and that this group is characterised as a space of rights regardless of the region of health in which they belong. If we're going to go a little further, it's important that we as a society understand that both training, rehabilitation and rehabilitation are areas that need to be prioritised, we should think of something with an inclusive society. Rehabilitation and follow-up of children and adults who have received CI implants is very important. This is a determining factor in whether the treatment will be successful or not. Therefore, there is reason to claim that CI implants do not have the desired effect if there is no complete and good follow-up after the operation itself. The Progress Party wholeheartedly supports the proposals made by the representative proposal and believes that this will be a prerequisite for success in relation to this patient group. There is further reason to note that we have received signals indicating that the quality and extent of the rehabilitation and training of this group of patients vary greatly depending on where the individual patient has a residence address in the country. This is unacceptable. The Progress Party considers that there is a need for system changes that both ensure that all those in need, children and adults, offer CI implants to both ears within acceptable time limits, and provide good and adequate treatment both in the rehabilitation and training process in retrospect. The system changes that should be made include: changes in the funding system to avoid cases where the economy of each municipality or health region is crucial for obtaining CI implants and follow-up. It is high time that the problem of hearing care was addressed by the sitting government. The Progress Party will continue to be a strong driver for this in Norway. And I repeat, as a society, we need to be far more inclusive if we're to be able to get a broad participation of many groups of health problems, including those who have received or need cochlea implants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e809	In fact, cochlea implants in children and adults have also been on the political agenda of the Government in recent years. And I'm very happy about that. It has, in the view of the Workers' Party, been a positive development in this area. However, we would like to commend the proposers for putting the spotlight on rehabilitation and rehabilitation for CI operators. The proposalers have in particular taken into account that there are variations in the possibilities for CI operators to learn how to interpret sound and learn speech. Research also shows that children who are diagnosed and integrated into habilitation measures within six months show good results. Among other things, in the context of this, the proposers consider it important to provide an equivalent offer to CI operators throughout the country. Of course, we agree with that. Furthermore, we share the view that the offer given must be of professional quality. Today, the Rikshospitalet has a national function for the operation of CI on children. They shall therefore also carry out the tasks of the centre of competence in the field of science. In the Workers' Party, we are not aware that today there are problems with waiting time for the CI operation for children. We are aware that the queues for children in need of CI were closed in the autumn of 2006. The CI operation in adults is now offered at the Rikshospitalet, Haukeland University Hospital and St. Olavs Hospital. In 2009, these three sites are to carry out a total of 200 operations. There is a requirement on the part of the Government for cooperation between the places to reduce waiting time. We are confident that the Government will follow up the comments of an overall committee from earlier on to identify the needs for habilitation and rehabilitation of CI-operative children and adults. We're also going to express that in this setting. We believe it is appropriate that it is the Health Directorate that conducts the screening. Regional health establishments are required from 2008 to introduce hearing screening of newborn babies at their food establishments. Of course, early detection of hearing impairment is a great step towards early treatment in the specialist healthcare system. We would like to point out that the Government has reduced the Mid-Hungary Committee to look at better learning for children, young people and adults with special needs. They shall finish their work on 1 July 2009. The Directorate-General for Education is entrusted with the task of developing national guides to help provide equivalent training for hearing-impaired children and young people, including children with cochlea implants. So there are several areas of work on this problem. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is an area in which the Workers' Party follows closely, and in which we are very concerned. We're of the opinion that only the best skills are good enough. Our experience is that the Committee is very united in its view on this matter. When we do not go into the last proposal, to set up a centre of expertise now, it is with the background of what I have now said, and that we think it is most appropriate that the Government should identify all the needs of such a centre before the Stortinget reaches its final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e828	Proposalers deserve support for the proposal to strengthen the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation for children and adults with cochlea implants. These implants are medical advances that give many people a new opportunity to hear and thus communicate with others. However, if patients are to benefit fully from this treatment, the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation is essential. For both hearing-impaired and others, habilitation and rehabilitation mean a new opportunity to master everyday life and work and to participate in social communities. It is particularly important for children that they are helped to develop languages and communicate as early as possible. We know that the offer of habilitation and rehabilitation fails in many stages. In 2006, the Health Inspectorate called for a major failure in the provision of rehabilitation services for children. This means lost opportunities for many disabled children and a demanding everyday life for their families. As late as during the budget consultations in the Health and Care Committee in the autumn, we received evidence that the offer is still very poor. For the Right, it is essential that health services provide people with the opportunity to master everyday life and to take an active part in working and social life. A commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation is an investment in greater freedom and better quality of life for many people. At the same time, reducing the need for care and social security benefits is a good social economy. In 2007, a proposal in Stortinget on a phasing-in plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation was put forward to the right. We have proposed about half a billion dollars for this in our alternative budgets over the last three years. But these proposals have been voted against by the government parties, despite the fact that in the Soria Moria Declaration they promised training to all those who need it. There has also been very strong criticism of the Government from patient organisations and trade unions for lifting offences in this area. The proposals contained in this proposal for a representative are supported on the right. A monitoring of the actual provision of habilitation, rehabilitation and training should be carried out. Such monitoring provides a basis for improvements in supply. Secondly, we support the proposal to establish a national centre of expertise for CI operators. We believe that such a centre of excellence can help to strengthen the offer. At the same time, we have noted from the Right the input from parents to CI-operated children, which points out that such a centre of expertise must have a multidisciplinary competence that embraces both medical, technical, linguistic, psychological and logopedic knowledge. These parents stress the importance of a holistic approach to the needs of children, which is fully supported by the Right. Furthermore, cooperation should be established with the regional competence centres for hearing-impaired persons in order to ensure that these offers can complement each other in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e845	Like Gunn Olsen's representative, I would like to point out that there has been great progress in recent years, and one of the advances in the medical world is that hearing-impaired and deaf people have been given the opportunity to perceive sound. Cochlea implant on either one or both ears allows this. This is a priority area, and every year nearly 40 children and 200 adults have CI surgery. There have been strong developments in recent years and therefore a relatively new group of new needs has emerged. Hearing screening of all newborns is now carried out in all maternity wards in Norway. In this way it will be caught right after the birth if a child is deaf. CI operations are currently carried out on babies from five to six months of age. That's great. This is a known substance too many. What is less known is that when the operation is done, only half the job is done. CI operators will need help to interpret sound and to start talking. This must be done intensively at the beginning, immediately after the operation, with training often over many years. The assistance provided after a CI operation to enable the child to communicate will initially be considered to be rehabilitation, as the first time after an operation is to be considered as treatment in a habilitation and rehabilitation phase and will therefore fall within the definition of ‘health care’ in the Patient Rights Act. It turns out that there are variations in the possibilities for cochlea implanters to learn how to interpret sound and learn speech. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed that the Government carry out a survey of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation services that children and adults receive after a CI operation. There will be a smooth transition from habilitation to training through special educational assistance and special education. It is therefore proposed that the Government monitor the interdisciplinary follow-up of children with CI until school start. It is very unfortunate if children and adults who have surgery in the CI do not get the follow-up they depend on. The government must therefore ensure that CI operators receive rehabilitation and rehabilitation immediately after the operation. Such habilitation must ensure that an individual level is put in place, and rehabilitation must be completed as soon as possible by the local auxiliaries. As early as 2006, a report on CI from — at that time — the Social and Health Directorate recommended the establishment of a national competence centre to ensure that an equivalent habilitation offer is provided to all children with CI surgery and that this offer is based on knowledge and competence. Habilitation needs to focus on help to interpret sound and to learn speech and characters. I am very pleased that the entire committee has joined three out of four proposals in this matter. As regards proposal No: 4, I perceived the intervention of the representative Gunn Olsen so that the work is already in progress, namely to assess the need for such a centre of expertise, as stated under IV of the Committee's recommendation. In the end, I want to tell you about little Ola from Bergen. He had meningitis when he was four years old. It's not that long ago. He was operated on at the Rikshospitalet, and not too long after the operation he traveled home to the family in Bergen. Then it was the municipality that took responsibility for the rehabilitation. He got four to six hours of training per. week. The parents quickly discovered that there was no way for little Ola to learn speech. He got the meningitis before he could speak properly, but got the surgery when he was about. Four years. I hope and believe – with the will of the whole Storting in this case – that this will not happen to any more children in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e868	In principle, what is produced in connection with this proposal for a representative is extremely positive. A group of people who have not been able to hear in the past have received a treatment offer for cochlea implants that will enable them to do so, provided that after the procedure they also receive a professionally sound rehabilitation offer that includes voice training. It was a report not so long ago on TV about a child who had had a CI operation. In the report, the problem was that, of course, it does not solve all the problems, but it also faces some new challenges once the operation has taken place. In this case, the child experienced a safe environment such as deafness with others to an environment with belonging, where the child initially did not have the necessary safety and felt uncertainty in the new environment. It is precisely based on the kind of experiences that it is important that rehabilitation – speech training, training in hearing, perception of the spoken word – get started quickly. It is gratifying that an overall committee, and therefore also an overall increase, agree with the intentions of the proposers. This must also be an example of the fact that the opposition is taken seriously with its input and that one has common intentions. There's a very small nuance between their proposals, no. 4, and what the government parties have written, namely that it is seen as ‘appropriate for the Government to identify the need for a centre of expertise before the Stortinget takes a final decision’. So now we've heard that the mapping work is already going on. It is therefore fair to say that all the concerns of the proposers have been taken care of during the Committee's proceedings. We all have reason to be happy about that, not least those who have made use of the cochlea implant and in addition are going through rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e879	I just want to raise a dimension that has not been addressed in the debate until now. In the last common comment we have in the setting, it says: ‘The Committee would stress the importance of not depriving children with cochlea implants of the possibility of good sign language training.’ When we look at the history of sign language and the deaf thing, we see a very complex story, where the big community doesn't always have the best proof of good conduct in terms of how we've dealt with the deaf thing and how we've dealt with the sign language in different kinds of contexts. What happens in relation to cochlea implants is a revolution. It's amazing – and everyone agrees that it's amazing. But then you know that it varies how successful the operation is, and it varies how much hearing the individual receives. That's why it was important, when we had the matter under consideration in the committee, that we also got this comment in the vote. We also noticed during the hearing that there are many feelings in the discussion about cochlea implants, and different associations raised different points of view and had different points of view. The reason why we made this comment is that as the Joint Committee, we are very concerned that the sign language should have an important place. This year, it has gained official status – if I do not remember completely wrong – as a language of its own in Norway, and we see that it is important that you still have it. Unfortunately, not everyone receiving cochlea implants will have a successful operation and therefore there is still a need for good sign language training. It is difficult to know when the operation is conducted, how successful it will actually be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e891	It's important that the follow-up after implantation is as good as possible, we're all a few of them. In many cases, the health status of individuals depends entirely on the quality of the follow-up. As they say, the operation is a good thing, but if the follow-up isn't good, the result won't be what you want. Such holistic rehabilitation of young people should be followed up by interdisciplinary cooperation between the National Hospital, the established centres of competence and the community health service. Here -- when we call all these actors -- interaction has become a real fashion word, that's what we're talking about. I think "cooperation" is one of the best words we use at the moment, not least within the health care community, because there are so many actors, as we know. What this proposal requires is monitoring – how does it work that we have all tried to achieve? We have good things to do, but do we know if they work? That's why I think it's right and useful what the representative proposal here is about, that we should monitor and check out that supply and follow-up that cochlea implants actually get, and that the interaction actually works. The left, of course, agrees with the proposers that it is important to provide an equivalent rehabilitation provision for cochlea implants throughout the country based on knowledge and competence. Equivalence and holistic training provision are in the same category. Some of them happened after the municipalities took over the responsibility for training and the provision of logos. There is little help in increasing the capacity of subsequent pups if they are unable to make use of the implant because, for example: missing logoped supply. So here it's important that one has enough capacity in relation to this group. The left also suggests that the issue of a national competence centre, as presented in the resolution in paragraph IV, is important. We think one should focus on that. But I understand that here is really not a big deal between the government party and the opposition, it's probably mainly about nuances. Otherwise, I agree with what Mr Vedum says, that this last remark in the setting is not so big, but also for the Left, it is important to underline the meaning of – and the right to – characters for speech as an equivalent language, and that one should recognise it in the same way as the language, with the same follow-up and training provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e906	National strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation in 2008–2011 was presented in the State budget for 2008 and was endorsed in the United Kingdom. The habilitation and rehabilitation field must be strengthened and interaction and coordination improved. The strategy underlines the importance of close cooperation with areas such as work, education and children and the growth conditions of young people in general. As I said when dealing with the previous case, the Health Directorate is following up with an action plan for the rehabilitation of children and young people, which comes on 1 July 2009. Equivalence in the provision of services shall be central to that plan. A single committee proposes two mappings. The monitoring of the provision of rehabilitation and rehabilitation services to children and adults following cochlea implantation operations has already been commissioned by the Health Directorate in the 2009 letter of allocation. The Minister of Knowledge believes it is important to see the monitoring of the multidisciplinary follow-up of children with cochlea implants until school starts in conjunction with another ongoing development work, for example. follow-up of the Committee's comments by the Church, Education and Research Committee on changes to the Training Act and the Private School Act, cited in the memo, Innst. O. No 51 for 2007-2008, cf. Ot. pp. No 40 for 2007-2008. The Minister of Knowledge further informs that the Directorate of Education will develop guidelines to help children and young people with hearing impairment, with and without cochlea implants, receive an equivalent and comprehensive training offer. Particular attention shall be paid to how basic skills and good language training can be ensured for pre-school and cochlea-implanted pupils at school. A separate sample for better learning for children, young people and adults with special needs, known as the Mid-Lineg range, is also reduced. On 1 July this year, the Committee shall submit proposals for improving the organisation and use of resources for an integrated action chain for children and young people with special educational assistance. Like the committee, I am committed to ensuring that CI operators get habilitation and rehabilitation immediately after the operation. The guidelines developed by the Directorate of Foreign Affairs will be one of the measures to ensure this. For children to have implants, it is particularly important that conditions facilitate habilitation in the municipalities after the operation. The Health Directorate has contacted the CI team at the Rikshospitalet to help develop a model for cooperation with municipalities as soon as it is decided that the child should have cochlea implants. Important tools are individual plan and coordinating unit in the municipality. To the proposal to explore the need for a national centre of expertise for immediate rehabilitation and rehabilitation of CI-operated children, I can inform you that the Rikshospital is responsible for this because they have the national function of CI-operation of children. The State Special Educational Support System, Statped, shall assist school owners in facilitating good training for children, young people and adults with special training needs, including those with cochlea implants. To change this, we will have the opportunity to assess through the work currently being done by regional health companies on managing rural and multi-regional functions and national centres of expertise in the specialist health service, as we also discussed and discussed thoroughly in the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e923	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e927	As regards proposal No: 4, the members of the Committee from the Government Parties consider it appropriate for the Government to identify the need for such a centre of competence before the Stortinget takes a final decision. Is it so to understand that the Government does not have an overview of the need for immediate rehabilitation and rehabilitation of CI-operated children?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e932	As I said in my post, we have a competence center in this area related to the Rikshospitalet. They have responsibility and national function for the CI operations of children, and through that they have the task of center of competence. So it's definitely so that even in this area things can be done even better. That was the concern of the Committee. That's why we're now doing new surveys, in line with what the committee wanted. And we will, as a result of the process of a general assessment of a national centre of competence, assess whether there is a need to make changes to the model we have today, with the Rikshospitale as such a centre of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e939	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2296]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e957	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e964	The representative proposal would like to remove the physical therapists’ contractual arrangements and grant freedom of establishment. This implies, should the proposal be adopted, that all physiotherapists are entitled to reimbursement after referral by a doctor. The majority of the Committee, which in this note consists of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, is aware that there have been major challenges in terms of contractual clauses and the disadvantages it has brought to new physiotherapists to establish themselves. The party of progress has its own comment on this. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party refer to the agreement concluded between the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association, the State and the KS with effect from 1 July 2008. This agreement has just been concluded in order to avoid what has been the challenges and, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, shall prevent what has happened before from happening. The same members support the government's policy of giving municipalities more funding responsibility, but we ask the Government to follow this closely, so that the offer does not get worse for patients when the funding is changed. It is important that there is consistency between the way the physiotherapists work and the operating contract that has been concluded, which has not always been found to be true. Following the agreement currently concluded, municipalities must make their priority tasks more visible and link physiotherapists to the tasks requested to be carried out. This is what these members believe is the right way to go. The members of the Committee from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left refer to the intention to improve accessibility and clean governance. The right-hand representatives refer to Document No. 8:3 for 2007-2008, which wanted to terminate the current system of agreements with municipalities with regard to the right to trigger claims for social security suspension. The three parties have their own proposal, which they will probably explain. The Progress Party wishes in its proposal a system in which the money follows the patient, free competition and freedom of choice for patients, but states in its note that this should not trigger increased self-payment for patients. They also have their own proposal, which will later be supported by them, but they refer both to the Association of Private Practising Physiotherapists and to the Norwegian Physiotherapists' Association, which gives its consent to free establishment being good. However, during the consultation with the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association, there were more questions than answers on how this should be carried out in a good way. I just want to give a brief look back, historically, in terms of the physiotherapy service. It was previously a purely state-funded service, and all physiotherapists could work where they wanted to. The monitoring of both the technical criteria and the lack or inadequacy of one's establishment where the need was. So you could establish where you wanted to go. Many established themselves in the central strata, where professional environments and demand were the largest – which is easy to understand. However, this in turn meant that there were considerable differences in the offer — depending on where one lived in the country, how large the customer base was, and where the trade unions had seats. When the municipalities assumed responsibility for the service, this improved. It became a more equivalent offer to everyone, regardless of where you lived. The question that the case thus raises is whether we are going back to this form of driving, or whether we are going to develop the offers so that everyone can benefit from them, regardless of where they live. This case has a lot of pages, which individually may be interesting to discuss. That is why there are also three proposals for decisions, each of which is quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e985	It is still apparent in different media and in various reports that the supply of physiotherapy treatment to patients is too poor. A look-up in Fredriksstad Blade Saturday had the following headline – and it should tell a lot: «Long queues for physical therapy Two – three months waiting time if you do not pay your own hour» The development we've actually seen is that more and more people now choose to pay for themselves, because they don't have the power to wait for physical therapy. In the waiting period, people get sicker and sicker. Many suffer from secondary illness, and many go ill for a longer time. So this is from a look-up in Fredriksstad Blad, and Fredrikstad is not a very poor municipality – the municipality actually has more contractual homes than an average municipality. This lookup shows how it is in the country — in an average municipality. The Health and Welfare Department report also shows that this is a major undercover, and that preventive physiotherapy and the treatment of chroniclers have to give up for patients who are sick or who come directly from hospitals. This survey showed that a 77-year-old man who came from rehabilitation after a cerebral hemorrhage had to wait two to three months for treatment. The government chose to change the scheme in the 2009 government budget – in order to achieve greater consistency between responsibility and financial responsibility. And I ask myself, was it to improve the patient's offer, or was it a new attempt to save money – by leaving more responsibility to the municipalities? The Progress Party is sceptical that a greater funding responsibility for physiotherapy services has now been added to municipalities through framework transfers, as this is likely to reinforce several of the unfortunate consequences that one has seen in the context of practices related to contractual organisations. We are also sure that the provision of treatment will be further weakened when greater financial responsibility for the service is assigned to the municipalities through these framework transfers. The report ‘Financing the physiotherapy service in municipalities’ shows that such a change may result in physical therapy being more expensive for municipalities than at present, with the total or partial conversion of state reimbursement into framework grants, and that, in isolation, it can lead to a reduction in the service volume in some municipalities. The time is – as we see it – over-mature to introduce the right of establishment for physiotherapists with direct reimbursement from the public welfare system, which will guarantee individual patient freedom of choice, and will ensure that all physiotherapists with approved education can maintain a level playing field in providing services that patients need. The situation is quite different today than it was 24 years ago. There is no longer a shortage of physiotherapists, and there are also many who want to train in that direction — if there are opportunities to establish and provide services entitled to reimbursement. Reimbursement must be triggered by referral, and one will ensure that the individual patient’s health and rights are triggered by reimbursement from the public health system. We also ask for the introduction of a new reimbursement system that allows patients to choose, thereby opening up competition between practitioners on equal terms. In the case of freedom of establishment, where the money follows the patient, patients will receive treatment paid by the public without a long waiting period – not like today, as very many have to pay for themselves. It will lead to equivalent competition. And there is competition to attract and hold patients, and that will help to increase the quality of physiotherapy services and treatment. However, I would like to clarify that the scheme should not lead to increased costs for patients – as has also been said here. The municipality is responsible for physiotherapy services to all those who need it. This applies to prevention services, school health services, health care services, etc. It is fully possible for municipalities and health businesses to employ physiotherapists, manual therapists or other competences that they need. It also applies to institutions, sports teams — anyone who needs this service, whether they buy it from a private clinic or a private actor, or they hire someone who can offer it. So that piece should be taken care of. In addition, we believe that the reimbursement scheme should be effort-based. It will ensure that patients who receive referral to treatment actually receive treatment when they need it, so that they do not go ill for a long time because they do not receive treatment or become worse. I would like to bring this to the attention of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the At the same time, I warn that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – as the second best proposal – as well as the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the Chamber today to assess the impact of the surrounding funding mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1014	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred and also made a presentation of the party's subsidiary vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1017	There is no majority recommendation on this matter from the Committee. The rapporteur has given a good account of the background to this. Let me start where the rapporteur also started his presentation, by pointing out that the majority have joined the rapporteurs' description of the problems, the challenges, with today's practice of the agreement. It is stated in the first column at the top of page 2 of the statement that the majority ‘is familiar with the challenges presented in the proposal for a representative as regards the ability of physiotherapists to create distortions of competition and difficulties for new physiotherapists to establish themselves’. The three governmental parties then continue to refer to the agreement concluded between the KS, the State and the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association on 1 July 2008 and say that, as these members are aware, this agreement will prevent this. It must be understood that this agreement means that these problems are gone. If there was something that emerged from the hearing in the committee, it was that none of those who were in the hearing share that perception of reality. There were considerable differences between the NFF and the PFF, but on that point I perceived the message quite unambiguously: none of those working in the field believe that this agreement will eliminate the fundamental problems. And what are the basic problems? Well, it is that we train very many skilled professionals in this field – it is one of the most attractive studies available in the Norwegian higher education system – but a large proportion of those who have completed their education do not get the chance to practice it after they have graduated. At the same time, on the patient side, there is clearly a deficit in access to rapid and effective physiotherapy treatment. It must mean that the system is unable to match the different considerations that apply, either on the part of the professionals or on the part of the patients. A study conducted by NFF among 500 physiotherapists shows that 83,5 pst. have waiting lists for treatment. Half of the physiotherapists say they have a waiting time of between one and three months, and 20 pst. they have longer waiting time than this. That's pretty talking numbers. What surprises me is that the government parties conclude by proposing that the proposal for a representative should not be accepted. I would have expected it to be extended so far that it had been suggested that it be annexed to the Minutes, because if you agree that the current situation is as unsatisfactory as it is, it is difficult for me to understand that you want to reject the proposal unconditionally. The proposal of the Progress Party, as it emerges from the vote, goes even further than the original proposal of the representative by extending the right of referral and also by clarifying that it is not to be accepted by patients for increased self-payment. The reason why we cannot support it is that this is a proposal calling for an impact assessment – first of all, an impact assessment of the likely effects on the distribution of access to physiotherapy services in densely built and in less densely built areas. That is the background for the promotion of proposal No. 1 – which I mention with this – as we believe is the proposal that best meets the reality description we received through the consultation round in the Committee, and where a request for an impact assessment provides for the mechanism to ensure faster access to necessary physiotherapy services as well as good prioritisation and resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1032	The representative of Inge Wohnning has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1035	There are many physiotherapists and patient organisations currently engaged in physiotherapy. It makes this draft representative highly topical. And what makes it come in these days is a series of alarm messages from all over the country just from physiotherapists and patients, are the consequences of the government's reorganization of the funding system for physiotherapists. The consequences, which the Government has not determined in advance, are now becoming too full. The report ‘Financing the physiotherapy service in municipalities’ of 1 October 2007 clearly states that the consequences have not been assessed. The representative, Vigdis Giltun, gave a striking example from Fredriksstad Blade today, precisely in terms of the consequences we are now seeing. There are two main problems, and already in the comments on the State budget, we expressed concern about this. One is that physiotherapists with small job fractions are now drastically reduced their income after the municipalities took part of the reimbursement grant from the population’s pension. Many of these physiotherapists will be forced into private operation without agreement, and patients will have to pay higher proportions. The second is that chronically ill patients are hit very hard. The queues are growing, and many of these patients can't afford to pay high proportions to go to a physiotherapist who doesn't have a place to live. The fact that we already have a lack of physiotherapists makes the situation even worse for these patients. The conversion of the funding mechanism adopted by the government parties, against the will of the opposition parties, in the context of the 2009 State budget, has made it a climactic need to look at the entire physical therapists’ contractual system. That's why the Christian People's Party is with the other opposition parties to evaluate changes. We agree with the Right and the Left to ask the Government to come back with proposals for alternatives to today's system. In my opinion, there are four issues that need to be addressed in a better way than what we see per. today. One is that patients should not have to wait in new queues to receive the necessary physiotherapy. Then rehabilitation and habilitation are weakened or absent – and the queues are growing now, we know that. The second is that patients' excesses do not have to be increased because physiotherapists get their government grants weakened, as we now see for them with small operating arrangements. The third is that it must be possible for physiotherapists who are new to the market to establish themselves – something that this representation is extremely concerned about. The last is that it must be possible for all physiotherapists to live on their own work within a normal working period. In the end, I address the proposal put forward in the Chamber on behalf of the Christian People's Party, namely to ask the Government to assess, by 2009 at the latest, the effects of the surrounded funding mechanism on physiotherapists, both in terms of their situation and in terms of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1052	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1055	What I mean at least, and many others as well, is that the physiotherapy services that we experience today are not perfect. We've got a lot of examples of that. We're reading about what we're hearing about it, and we've also been shown it here in the hall today – and we do it all too often. The left supports this proposal that the Right and Christian People's Party are behind, and our motivation is that we want better availability for physiotherapy services. We want to streamline the management of agreements between physiotherapists and public authorities. We want better resource use, we want to remove today's bureaucratic obstacle, and we think we have unnecessary waiting times for the patients. It's the patients who have to be in focus. We also believe that the system we have has developed to have unfortunate socio-economic consequences. The proposal that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind is not a proposal that is concrete in the sense that it outlines a new solution. That's how, as others have said here, we want an impact assessment, and we ask that the government come up with proposals for new arrangements in relation to today's. It's an open proposal, which the whole Storting should join, in my view. Our proposal is based on – as other speakers have mentioned here – the fact that we do not believe that the new agreement between KS and Norwegian Physiotherapist associations would rather improve the status to some extent. Otherwise, at the end of the day, I would just like to say that I am also quite surprised that the government party does not want to add the proposal to the Minutes. So now it's not a connection, but it's a pretty cash rejection. It seems rather surprising, at least the way I see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1068	It has been interesting to follow the debate. I remember Gudmund Hernes writing in his day a book called ‘Why Everything Goes Wrong’. Then he had a statement that was as follows: The more lawyers, the more lawyers. There's one thing that's not problematic here, and it's that pretty much all over the country it turns out that the more access you have to health professionals, the more you use them. That's why the opposition's description of waiting lists in the physiotherapists is a very poor measure of whether the coverage is good or bad. A former Council of State described in the 1980s, after calculating it, the difference in the withdrawal of resources for specialist use in different parts of the country. It turned out at the time that there were eight times as large withdrawals of funds — i.e. money — to specialists in the central eastern region as it was in northern Norway. One reason for this was that there was a significant over-establishment of private specialists who received operating grants, but who had not been given any guidance on the use of these funds. Luckily, this has been achieved later, by linking operating grants to contracts with health businesses, so that they are given the lead. But a free right of establishment for physiotherapists, without, in some way, putting commitments and leads at the bottom, that the only thing to be the criterion, is that doctors write referral forms, will very quickly lead to very large geographical differences in the establishment of physiotherapists. It's probably already today, but there's reason to believe that it had further strengthened itself. When we look at the dentists, we see that there is much greater density of them – of course calculated per. In most countries, the proportion of drugrelated deaths among drug users is higher than that in the general population. is in pig-grown strut in North Norway. In the case of the fixed medical device, it has been counterproductive. It has created a better distribution, where there are even some of the smallest municipalities that have the best coverage to get the medical care system to jump. In order to provide for a type of freer right of establishment for physiotherapists, it must therefore be absolutely necessary to make calculations in terms of both costs and how one wants to achieve a distribution. Otherwise, there will be pure market mechanisms in place. Where there are many, physiotherapists will establish themselves, and there it will be easy to recruit because you have people frequently for treatment. In this way, there are differences in resource use, as I described that a former government council had figures for the 1980s. It was Tove Strand that time they presented the numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1078	Let me start by stating that, of course, the municipalities are responsible for the physiotherapy service of the population. Municipalities may comply with this legal requirement by employing physiotherapists or by purchasing the service of private practitioners. Most municipalities have both these forms of association. Before 1984 it was a free market for physiotherapists in Norway. Any physiotherapist could enter into a direct settlement agreement with the public interest and receive patient reimbursement directly. This is the arrangement that the Progress Party will have reintroduced, and that we left 25 years ago. By introducing the Municipal Health Service Act in 1984, physical therapy resources were disseminated in all municipalities. The assumption was that the operating grant – i.e. the municipality’s share of the funding – would be 40 pst. of the income of the physiotherapist. The rest of the income was reimbursement from the social security, 20 pst., and excess from the patient, 40 pst. After 2000, the municipalities began to conclude open contracts and cancel fixed-term physiotherapists due to poor local economy. In order to avoid financing the service itself, the operating grant was 100 pst. split into compartments of 20 pst. Each. At the same time, it was a prerequisite that physiotherapists should work full time. This means that when physiotherapists have only one fifth of the full operating grant, they have to fill up with patients for whom they only receive social security contributions and benefits. This means that government expenditure increased, and thus municipalities escaped part of the expenditure. It was difficult for physiotherapists to get work with municipal ties. Even small agreements were strongly sought. Splitting of mortgages was a way of entrusting the primary funding to the State. Physiotherapists were not paid operating grants for the volume of the work they did. When such a large part of the income comes from social security disintegration, it is more attractive to carry out high-tariff tasks rather than physical therapy tasks for groups with complex needs. That's how it was until 1 July 2008. Then the government set a minimum requirement of 40 pst. to conclude new agreements. The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the KS have made it clear to the municipalities that physiotherapists must have an operating contract that corresponds to the actual volume being exercised and that is required by the municipalities. The Ministry has, as you know, announced a change in funding for the physiotherapy service, so that municipalities will be given greater financial responsibility and thus better management of the service. Much of the management of the physiotherapy service takes place through the central agreement between KS and Norwegian Physiotherapeutic association. The contract agency was renegotiated last year and has given the municipalities major management tasks. I expect the municipalities to now make greater demands on the quality and prioritisation of the service and to set up several agreements that meet the needs of the municipalities. I think it is wrong, as the proposers – Nesvik, Giltun, Fredriksen and Kjöna’s Kjos – claim, that we should reverse the operating grant scheme and go back to a state funding of the service. There is no limit to the funding of health services in the state fund. I think the physiotherapy service will be best served with a close connection to the community health service for the rest. Physiotherapy services are a very important part of a change in favour of a community health service that focuses more on prevention and early intervention. Therefore, physiotherapy services will be an important part of the interaction reform. It is based on the fact that the primary health service is to be the basis for healthcare. And as I said, here, physiotherapists will have their natural arena in prevention and treatment. One of the main elements of the scheme is that it should pay for municipalities to treat patients at the lowest possible level. I am therefore concerned that we need to work with the funding system for physiotherapists in the context of a conversion of the entire funding for the community health service. I believe clearly that today's system is not good enough. It was necessary, in my opinion, with a conversion, but no one can say that we have hit 100 pst. with today's system. That's why we have to think about it. That is why we need to look at it in the context of the other municipal health reform and see the funding of physiotherapists in the context of the new financial system for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1101	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1104	The Labour Party and this government have spoken very loudly about the fact that it is the public that has to pay for necessary health care in this country. When patients are requisitioned and treated by a physiotherapist, this is something that patients need and are entitled to. Today we still see that more patients have to pay this treatment of their own pocket. It's not something they choose because they think it's okay to pay for physical therapy, but it's because they need it. Is the Council really comfortable seeing that more and more patients in need of treatment have to pay themselves to get it within a reasonable time? And isn't this a contradiction to what the government is talking about out in a campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1113	I guess I don't agree with the reality description that Giltun now gives, because what we see is that the physiotherapy area is one of the areas in Norway where patients are most protected from self-payment. The diagnostic lists show that what normally applies as a self-payment system does not have the same effect in the physiotherapy service. One of the reasons we've had to make a conversion was that the state's cost of reimbursement was so great, with an increase of a few hundred million for a few years back to billions before the conversion. When we have to use billions of dollars from the state fund to refund physical therapy services, it's not exactly an expression that patients are paying – it's the state that has to pay. Physiotherapy monitoring systems are more extensive than in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1118	I had under most of the state council posts the impression that he would really conclude that today's state is perfectly perfect. But fortunately, he got in when he came to the end of the sweat, and said that there are significant deficiencies – if I understood it correctly – in the way things work today. I think that's neat and okay, but I have two questions. I assume that that means that the Council of State really wants to welcome the proposal that Laila Davøy has made on behalf of the Christian People's Party – i.e. proposal No. 3 – asking the Government to make a proper assessment of how the new financial instrument has been phased out in the current year. When it comes to the second question, I guess I'm not quite so optimistic about the answer. Actually, I think that the conclusion in the articles of the Council of State should have led quite directly to the content of proposal No. 1, promoted by Right, Christian People's Party and Left. I would like to hear if the Council of State does not agree that it might be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1127	To put it that way, the intuition of the representative's salary is good. With regard to the proposal by the representative, Mr Davøy, who is at the place of the representatives today, I believe it is a work we are doing, and I have nothing against that, for example. will be sent to the Government. I can assure you that it will be followed up. As regards proposal No: 1, I think it's more problematic, in the sense that I'd prefer not to have such strong leadership in the work we're doing on the government team.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1136	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1141	I felt the need to take the word again when I heard Ballo, who is also a doctor, keeping his post here in the hall instead. It is strange that he who is a doctor shows that he has very little faith in the doctor. Once that is the case, when patients seek a doctor who has a right of requisition, it is intended that the doctor should be able to assess the patient’s need for further treatment. As I understood from Ballos' posts, he had no faith whatsoever that the doctors could assess the need for treatment correctly, and that those requisitions were not worth anything at all. He also made it clear that a free right of establishment would result in many unnecessary treatments. And then you can ask yourself, is it the case today that the waiting times and the lack of physiotherapists with contract homes are used to limit treatments? Doesn't it happen quite randomly? It's also now that there's increased self-payment. Even though the Council of State wouldn't admit it, we're about to get a classed society, where those who have the money to buy health services themselves, do it, while others have to wait. This is happening while we have a government claiming that it has a policy that should work the opposite way. You have to be totally blind and deaf if you don't see which way evolution is going. It should not be so difficult to understand that it would be better and more right to provide better access to treatment for patients. You talk to two tongues when you say that everyone should have the right to free health care when they need it, while limiting the offer and access to these services to a minimum, which leads to people not getting the help they need. If anyone who pays physiotherapy treatment of their own pocket, would have been in line to be treated by physiotherapists who have contract shelters, the queue might not have been in two or three months, but maybe in five, six or seven months. So there is no longer any danger that certain parts of the country will be completely free of physiotherapists. It's something that's used as an excuse. The reason why you don't want to go into the system the Progress Party wants is simply that you want to save money. That's what the Council of State said. He was actually so honest that he said the government won't spend any more money on this. But then I also think he should be so honest and say that the government is not willing to pay for the healthcare only for those who want to wait, and only for those who happen to get access to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1152	The characterisation of other representatives as blind and deaf cannot pass by as a parliamentaryly approved expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1155	I was going to ask who was really characterized as blind and deaf, so it was good the president pointed it out. I don't think of myself as one or the other. But we want another way to do this, and it has to be completely legitimate. With regard to the proposal by Laila Davay – proposal No. 3 – we ask that it be turned into a transmission proposal, and then we will support it. That is what we are concerned about in our own comment, that it must be closely followed up, that it must be checked out, and that it should be looked at further – so we will support the proposal then. It has also been a little focused on whether to approve the proposal or not, or whether to attach it to the protocol. We do not agree with the proposal, and when we do not agree, it must be allowed not to approve it. We agree on the realities, yes, but we do not agree on the path to go. That's why we think this is the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1164	Today, in the journal of Rome, we can read the Secretary of State of the Council, Dagfinn Sundsbø, about how important it is with majority governments, because then you get so much. I think that this case actually shows the true opposite. I think that majority governments show us more and more often that it prevents common sense. After this case was brought forward, I have received an incredible number of e-mails from both users and practitioners of this service. I never think that I have received so many e-mails in any other matter I have been involved in promoting. This is a very big problem all over the country. In October last year, in the journal of Rome, they had a case entitled ‘Up to 1.5 years in line for physiotherapist’. We have had a look-up in the magazine of Rome, also in October last year, about the municipality of Lørenskog, which has been sued because of the way in which they grant permits. The civil officer has given the physiotherapist the right, and the municipality of Lørenskog has lost the case. They are sentenced to pay compensation and costs. So that's both the way this system is practiced, and the long waiting lists that are the big problem. The whole Storting has been worried that we have so much sick leave. We've been very worried about people getting dissatisfied. When we know that people go sick for months, we pay out sick money while they wait for treatment, and we know that someone comes to treatment so late that they get ill, it's a little weird that you don't want to do anything with a system we don't know works, that would give us savings. But the Council of State was at least very honest on one point, namely that it would be too expensive to give this offer to everyone with a government funding. The government doesn't think this is important enough. Then we still want a high level of sick leave. We want a high rate of new untrained, and unfortunately, perhaps the worst, we will have a society that is increasingly heading in the direction that those who have money can buy themselves fresh, while those who don't have money have to choose disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1180	First, let me make a little comment to the representative of Mr Ballo's post. I also reacted to it. I think it's a little too light in a way just to say that there's a lot of people who might also have an over-consumption of physiotherapy – that's at least what was below. I deeply disagree with that. We need enormous rehabilitation and rehabilitation in this country. We also have a real increase in large groups of orthopaedic patients, newly operated. There's been a good deal in our country that makes us need far more physical therapy, and have needed it for a long time. So to the proposal of the Christian People's Party that has been delivered into the hall today. I think it is nice that the Government will at least include it as part of the work currently under way on the new financial instrument. I would like to turn this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1187	The proposal put forward by the representative Mr Davøy, who has been distributed in the Chamber, has been turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1190	I need to add a couple of short notes. First, to the case rapporteur: Yes, of course, all parties have full freedom to present proposals in exactly the form they themselves want, but other parties also have the right to express their surprise that they choose to reject as categorical as they do, after they have helped to establish that today's situation is far from satisfactory. That's the only thing that's obviously 100 pst. agreement on — including the Council of State. Then I also need to express some wonder about the representative of Ballo's posts. The reference to Gudmund Hernes could well be seen as a joke – hopefully it can be seen this way. Otherwise, the logical conclusion would be that access to professionals should be minimised, almost across the country, because this will give you the best results. I hope that's not what was meant. The representative of Ballo’s argument can be accepted at one point, namely, so far as it points out that health policy is of course also concerned with the rational management of resources, in this area as in all other areas. But his argument does not at all make proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. That proposal explicitly states that this must be put into a priority context. It shall ensure rational use of resources, while ensuring faster access to the necessary physiotherapy services. The consultation round in the committee showed, as I said in my statement, that there are none of those who work in the field, who believe that today's arrangement of agreements works well, and that it ensures these reasons. As far as I understood, the Council of State also shared that view in its conclusion. He does not believe that today's contract system works well either. Then I can't understand and understand anything but the logical thing to do is to get together to ask the government to consider arrangements that can replace today's requirement for a contract with the municipality as a condition, and instead find other arrangements that take care of the overall concerns. I must say that I am amazed that the government parties are voting against. This is, of course, a statement of confidence in the government's ability to make better proposals when it is found that today's system is functioning badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1201	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2296]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1219	In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the number of older people, and life expectancy has also increased. At the same time, we have had a housing reform for elderly care and caregivers who have led to the fact that only the sickest are now getting sickest places. The threshold for getting a nursing home place has become significantly higher, and a whole of 80 pst. – or approx. 35,000 elderly people with dementia – have their housing and treatment services in a nursing home. We are talking here about people who are completely left to the treatment they receive at the hospital and who no longer manage to care for their own needs. Psychiatrists and researcher Geir Selbæk, at the Centre for Psychiatric Competence, has studied medicine at 26 Norwegian hospitals for an entire year. More than a thousand health care providers are involved in the study, and it is the largest study ever conducted in this field. It was discovered that a large majority of residents of Norwegian hospitals are using medications to treat mental distress, despite the uncertain effect of treatment, and treatment is rarely stopped. In a large one - year follow-up study, Geir Selbæk shows that severe behavioural disorders and psychological symptoms such as psychosis, depression, anxiety and aggression are common among the residents of a nursing home. Eight out of ten residents also have dementia, but only 55 pst. of which they have had a dementia diagnosis. Most hospitals have special wards for people with dementia. Nevertheless, there are more than twice as many people living with dementia in normal nursing homes. Among those who had dementia, three of the four people who lived in psychotropics used them firmly at the first time, and a whole 89 pst. of whom still used this one year after. The course of symptoms in those who used drugs, and in those who did not use drugs, was the same, or it was actually seen that those who used them had become even worse. People with dementia are particularly susceptible to serious adverse reactions during long-term use. Selbæk and the employees say that the findings in the study indicate that the follow-up of patients in hospitals is inadequate. There appears to be a mismatch between the severity of the symptoms and the standard of the medical service. Municipalities have not taken into account the real need for protected units when building or manning nursing homes. A lot of people live outside protected units, so they don't get the housing they were supposed to have. It must have surprised more than me to read about how thousands of dentures in hospitals are exposed to daily treatment failures and mistreatment. The Party considers this to be serious and totally unacceptable and that such conditions cannot continue pending the interaction reform or fulfilment of the dementia plan. Do the municipalities and hospital doctors not have a responsibility for the proper treatment of elderly people? Would it have been possible to continue such extensive mistreatment of other patient groups over time, or would it perhaps lead to a step of claims for patient damages? Neither the poor economy nor the lack of competence of hospitals are good enough reasons to continue systematic mistreatment of thousands of people over time. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to look at how this major failure in the provision of housing and treatment for demented homes can be resolved quickly. The first prerequisite to provide proper treatment is to have the correct diagnosis made, and the diagnosis must be made by a specialist. Anyone with dementia should have been diagnosed not only with dementia or not but also with the type of dementia they have. I can see no reason why dementia should be treated differently than high blood pressure, heart failure or coals. I guess the patient is no less valuable because the disease is in the brain. The doctors at the nursing homes have a great responsibility to prescribe the right medicine, but unfortunately it was only the Advance Party who followed the recommendation of the Medical Association to increase the medical resources in the nursing homes by 100 pst. Even this won't be enough if even more patients are going to get out of the hospital. Demente often suffers from mental illness as part of her dementia. Self-bæk's study suggests that these people are receiving poor follow-up, and a sign of this is, of course, the excessive consumption of drugs. Doctors also need to know better about the investigation and treatment of people with dementia, and they need to be more aware of the use of drug-free treatment options. The doctors are responsible for the medication, but can rarely follow up the patient. In practice, it appears that, therefore, the nurses in the nursing homes have a strong influence on what is selected by medication. The drugs used are not necessarily wrong initially, but the error is that the patient is going on the same medications over time. The side effects are serious and vary. Some of the side effects are confusion, weakness, they are sleepy, they are easy to fall, and this also leads to a risk of fractures. There is a need for better knowledge of alternative treatment interventions, such as psychological and environmental interventions. Local and, where appropriate, intercommunal teams should be responsible for the flow of this knowledge to those who work in the departments and who support and guide the implementation of such treatment. We need several fixed nurses with special skills that can follow up the patients. It is important for skilled staff, nurses, assistant nurses, caregivers, ergot therapists, physiotherapists and activists. And staff should be offered further training in relation to dementia. This must also be part of the ordinary curriculum. Today, many people work with foreign origins in nursing homes, but working with older people is very important. An example of horror I heard a little while ago was a foreign doctor who was allowed to practice as a nurse in a nursing home to learn Norwegian. The need for understanding was of secondary importance. This testifies to a lack of respect for the elderly who need care and care and someone to talk to. On the one hand, it is important that we have more jobs and that there is an ongoing increase in the competence of hospitals. At the same time, it must be more attractive to work in hospitals for doctors and nurses. Today, over 90 psts respond. by the nurses that they do not want to work with the elderly or in nursing homes, and you have to ask yourself what is the reason for this. I think it's central that something has to be done in the hospitals, for example. research and development. If an ambitious nurse wants to do master's or doctor's work, it should be as natural to facilitate this in a nursing home as it is in a hospital. Greater attention should be paid to the field of education and training of doctors. The specialist healthcare services for age psychiatry and geriatrics must be regularly and predictable in hospitals. It won't be enough to train ten new geriatrics annually, as the government adds. Despite the fact that patients in hospitals often have at least as serious symptoms as patients in hospitals, it is problematic to move them because of their vulnerability to environmental change. Then the solution is that the specialist health service comes to the nursing homes. As far as welfare measures are concerned, I would like to refer to Lotte's nursing home, which the committee had enjoyed visiting a few weeks ago. Medicians were replaced by basic measures of well-being, which also reflected the longevity and quality of life of residents. It is agreed that persons with and without dementia should be in separate units. Today, there are twice as many people with dementia in normal hospital wards as there are in sheltered units. Hospitals should be organised as soon as possible primarily for persons with dementia. When 80 pst. So they have dementia, so they're the ones without dementia that's the exception. Therefore, the construction of protected units must take place in addition to increasing the number of hospitalisation sites, so that the coverage is at least 25 pst. for those over 80 years. At the Smedstadhome in Oslo, the staff have worked actively to bring down the drug use, and I also know several other cases where the hospitals are actively working with it. They have in one year managed to reduce the total consumption of all kinds of drugs by almost one-third. However, this is very rare in Norwegian nursing homes, according to the study to Geir Selbæk. We need a broad bet in the coming years. Much of the bet is mentioned in the dementia plan, and it is very good. In the short term, however, health care homes now have to make changes. It's also about tradition and habits that have to be broken. It is important to take tight action and follow-up to make rapid changes. With today’s funding and the freedom of municipalities to determine the quality of hospitals and home services themselves, it can be seen that municipalities carry out extensive cuts in the care sector despite requests from the Government and the Stortinge to invest in quality and increase in the number of nursing homes. This will often affect the weakest and those who do not have the opportunity to exercise their rights and who do not have the resources of relatives. The Party considers that it is absolutely necessary to introduce a legal right to hospital accommodation and minimum staffing standards at the nursing homes. But as it stands, this will have major economic consequences, and the state will have to take financial responsibility if we are to guarantee a good quality at all the hospitals. It is important to focus on the needs you will see over the next ten years. But that's not enough. We already have to bet and do something about what you can do, and everything is not about money. Much, as I said, is about attitudes and giving the older dignity and care and care they need, so that they do not go on antidepressants and rather get a good everyday life in the hospital by getting a completely different care. I address this debate, and hope that the Council of State will make some recordings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1265	Patients with long-term and complex needs, including: people with dementia, shall have good and complete services. Here we still have challenges. That is why I am working on a new health reform, i.e. the interaction reform. The interaction reform will focus on strengthening municipal services and measures to ensure better medical and multidisciplinary follow-up in municipalities. There is no doubt that we have a good health and care service, where about 220,000 skilled employees do a formidable job every day. Nevertheless, many patients do not get the help they need and are entitled to. There may be sick elderly people, people with chronic diseases — such as coal, cancer and dementia. They experience that the auxiliaries fail in the transition between hospitals and municipalities, but also within the municipality and in the specialist health service. These patients are the losers in today's Health Norway. At the same time, the problem of interaction is growing, for example: because there are more sick elderly and more long-lived people living with their disease, including dementia. Today, the number of people with dementia is about 70,000. By 2040, the number is going to be about 135,000. In the Single Market Communication on the Interaction Reform, we will propose economic and legal measures to ensure that interaction takes place due to, and not in spite of, the system. The aim is to provide a comprehensive patient profile for each user and to focus on prevention, early intervention and better medical and multidisciplinary follow-up in municipalities. This means that municipalities need to have a strengthened role in the overall health and care service. New treatment services are to be established in municipalities, which provide services before, after or instead of hospitals, for example: observation and post-treatment items. We are already building nurseries and short-term places through new investment grants for hospitals and nursing homes. The aim is to provide commitments to 12,000 care facilities by 2015. Support for the construction of 1000 units has already been granted for 2008. In 2009 commitments shall be made for the construction of 2 500 lucky day pitches in hospitals and nursing homes. This will contribute to a better housing for people with dementia About 80 pst. of those who live in nursing homes today have dementia, but the nursing homes are not built and arranged for them. We have therefore said that everything built with a new investment grant should be adapted to this user group. In that case, it is essentially a question of «good weight». Small nursing homes and bookhouses with doors in the garden are better than old-fashioned nursing homes with large wards and long corridors. The cooperation reform shall ensure the strengthening of the medical supply in the municipalities. There is a need for more permanent staff in the municipalities, and we need to strengthen medical care in the hospitals. It will help to treat more people in municipalities, ensure their proximity to homes and communities and reduce unnecessary hospitalisation. We are already in the process of implementing the measures provided for in the 2015 care plan. Municipalities have set local standards for medical coverage in hospitals. They have planned to increase the medical service by 40 pst. to improve the medical supply to users in hospitals. Through the dementia plan, we have launched our own programme to develop and test better models for the investigation and diagnosis of dementia. We have developed a national strategy for specialist health services for the elderly in 2008–2012. The strategy shall form the basis for action plans in the regional health establishments. The specialist healthcare service has an important role to play in providing training and guidance on the investigation and treatment of dementia to community health personnel. One example is training in the use of diagnostic tools. The strategy underlines the need to establish good treatment for the elderly with mental failure and dementia. Drug use in the elderly is one of the areas of particular attention to be given. The interaction reform shall facilitate cooperation on competences-intensive tasks. 160,000 of the 200,000 users of municipal health and care services live in their own homes. Many of these have dementia. It is necessary to strengthen the competence of the carers responsible for the day-to-day and often long-term follow-up of the individual user. The government has launched a new competence and recruitment plan, the Competence Plan 2015. Through this plan, we have strengthened the provision of further training in dementia and geriatry and developed a separate training package for employees who do not have health and social education. 3 200 people in the care sector have now been trained on dementia by means of this plan. Good prevention can reduce the extent of disease and improve the quality of life of many users. Measures and resources need to be put more to the left on time, thus preventing and detecting disease early, in order to reduce the need for resources in later phases. Both through the care plan and the dementia plan, we have launched measures to strengthen prevention activities. One of the three objectives of the dementia plan is to increase the daily activity offer. Daily services provide meaning and well-being for the individual, relief for relatives and may help to postpone or prevent accommodation. In the 2009 state budget, we have underlined that the increase in free revenues should allow for the start of the construction of daily services in 2009, and we see that this is happening. We are also developing good models of environmental therapy in addition to other treatment interventions. I also want to strengthen research in this sector. Research provides knowledge to plan, develop and improve the provision of services for individuals and to interact with service providers. In the last three years, we have increased research and development aimed at dementia and strengthened the funds for care research and dementia research with a total of 20 million. kr. In this respect, I am very pleased with the study of Geir Selbæk and other research contributions in the field of dementia. The government takes the challenge of dementia seriously through long-term care plans and by taking major and necessary steps to equip municipal health and care services and to improve interaction between service levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1295	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and for the briefing on all the good measures that have been taken. It's very important. Much of that is a follow-up to the dementia plan, and there is no doubt that everyone wants this group to get a much better offer. What worries me is that it's going very slowly, and that there's a very large group we're talking about here. But all of the things that the Council of State said are very positive, and I look forward to continuing to focus on this. Research is also very important. I think it might be very important to find a solution to the dementia, that is, to prevent people from developing dementia. Then we'll get a completely different care for the elderly and will be able to use the resources in a completely different way, and not least give all those who get it a much better life. In the case of medical coverage in nursing homes, the Progress Party has pointed out in the same way as the Medical Association that the planned increase envisaged by the Government will not be enough. I wish the Council of State had also considered this a little further, because the aim of the Council of State is also to have several patients from hospital to hospital in the past. Then there might be a further need for doctors. Nor, in the case of specialists, training of geriatricians and training of specialists in age psychiatry, does the Progress Party believe that the need will be met with the objective we have today. What can be done in the short term, and what you don't talk about very much, is what we saw in Denmark at Lotte's nursing home. With small grips, daily routines were changed for how they treated the residents – because it is the people who live first and foremost. You let them control their own lives and live their lives as normal as possible. You wanted to save meds. You wouldn't need antidepressants, and you don't want sleeping drugs to the extent you have elsewhere. Sleeping medicine was actually stepped down completely in three months. We have a lot to pick up there, and it can happen quickly. Well, changes in attitude may not be that easy, but this can happen quickly. There is nothing that requires extra resources; it requires that you work in a different way, and that you take these residents seriously. Everyone would be terribly depressed if they had ended up in a hospital ward and couldn't decide when to eat, not what to eat, not when to get up, not when to go to the bathroom or shower, etc. It's clear that changing the routines of the nursing homes and letting the residents get into focus could do a lot. I hope that the Council of State will also take it along, and not just think about the other things he has mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1308	I want to start by saying that I don't think you need to go to Denmark to find examples of both good dementia care and good operation of nursing homes and nursing homes. This can also be found in Norway. There are many municipalities that have come very far in developing good offers. We see that when you get to small units and have highly skilled staff – sufficient staff and sufficient professionalism – you also get good offers in Norway – and that’s good. We need to use that as motivation and inspiration to continue working. Then it worked very systematically according to a plan, where we now need to build more units – at least 12,000 units by 2015 – and when we're done in 2009, we have committed to the first 3 500. It is important to say that it is based on applications from municipalities where the plans are clear, and where the starting point is that with the situation we have in the market, there is good hope of getting started quickly, as there is a little bit of free capacity in the construction market. 3 200 employees have received training – several are coming. A number of municipalities are in the process of establishing, evaluating and testing different types of daily services. We get intern schools set up to really work with the relatives, take care of them, give them knowledge and give them insight into dementia. Not least — the last — we will also have 12,000 more people in the care sector until 2015. It's hard on us, and we're working on the state budgets – both for this year, and what we're going to make for next year. So I believe that there is an overall thinking in the care plan and in the dementia plan. It's happening very well, but there's still a lot left. With regard to the link up to the interaction reform, I have received a report from the Health Directorate that has been made, among other things. in cooperation with the Medical Association, which establishes that there is a need for 50 pst. more fixatives than we have. The increased set-aside resource shall be used at a better time per year. patients and for more public work, e.g. in a nursing home. So there doesn't have to be any locks to get your own home doctors. It may be possible to find models within this system that can open it up, so that it will contribute to those degrees, I think, that the professionalism of the entire community health service and care services will be strengthened in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1317	Demos is one of the major diseases associated with, among other things, cancer, coal, diabetes and mental disorders are growing rapidly. According to the dementia plan, the number of people with dementia will be twice that in 30–35 years. When we know how many people live in a nursing home, and that 75-80 pst. Of them, dementia has some form and degree, and when we add to all the relatives affected, it's clear that this concerns a lot, and that the offer that's being made, therefore engages and engages politicians, all of them. That's why there's also a job done. As a follow-up to the Health Plan 2015, the Government presented a dementia plan in 2007. As Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was about, the new health reform was also about getting a better offer for this type of patient group – older people with chronic disease. Four regional care research centres have been established and several important actions have also been mentioned by the Council of State. As I see it, the focus must be that we work actively in relation to the design of housing units and common areas, the activity offer and the competence of the entire hospital home when we know that those living in nursing homes are on average healthier than before, and when dementia is found in so many different degrees of severity and disease phases. We need to have a broad focus, and I also believe that the Minister of Health and Health had in his contribution. When the then councillor, Sylvia Brustad, presented the plan, she put emphasis on three main themes, and I'd like to say a little about them. First of all, and it was also the Council of State inside, hospitals should be built and organized for people with dementia. Participation in the investment grant for nursing homes and nursing homes adopted is required. It's about small departments, exit to the garden, fewer long, foreign corridors, etc. Secondly, we are dealing with day-to-day activities and interaction. Many people with dementia live at home, and it clearly shows how different it is between those who are a little sick and those who are very sick. However, many more of them also need daily services, incentives and measures that can keep the disease in check for as long as possible. And the annual effort in the care of the elderly in the municipalities – 10,000 annual works – will also contribute to much more day activities. Thirdly, Sylvia Brustad drew this up with knowledge and competence, intern schools, etc. Demos – forgetting the past, feeling that a person likes to slip a little gradually apart – are too many, both the one in question and those standing around, a frightening diagnosis. That's easy to understand. But it can do a lot to create good quality of life, to create content in everyday life and to create many good times in many good years. According to Sylvia Brustad, that's exactly why the dementia plan was named "Good Day". So it is done very well, and much of it was mentioned in the articles of the Council of State. But it's clear, as it was also stressed, that creating a good deal for demente is not something that we can just adopt, and then it becomes like that. It's something that it has to work with all the time, every single day. Part of the core of the interaction reform is therefore precisely to create a system that better facilitates continuous work. Finally, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also pointed out: One of the main advantages of presenting a comprehensive plan is to facilitate systematic work over a long period of time and have a good and comprehensive focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1338	The Council of State mentioned in its reply the speech of the figures and it is understandable. It confirms that we are facing one of the most important challenges in developing our healthcare properly. Demis is not an acute disease. It's per. not a cureable disease today. It is a state that develops over time — and sometimes develops slowly over time. In the care message that we treated at the beginning of this ageing period, it was said that at least half of all people with dementia at some stage live in their own homes. This means, in practice, that they are totally dependent on the care of close relatives. In most cases, the close relatives will be about the same age as the patient. The fact that we have practically no relief offer for relatives today means that we probably get a greater number of nursing than we had to get, and at an earlier time, simply because you get two nursing patients instead of one. That is why I fully agree with what was pointed out by the previous speakers that it is important to introduce flexible measures on the discharge side. It is also important, for the sake of living at home, to develop meaningful daytime activities. A 2007 survey showed that it was only 6.5 pst. by residents with dementia who received such an offer at the time. I agree with the Council of State that Geir Selbæk's study, to which the interpellant referred, like all research contributions, is to accept thanks. But research has it, of course, that it very often reveals very unpleasant facts. That's what research is all about. This study reveals a number of factors that are quite daunting, both in the absence of adequate diagnosis of dementia and in the case of misuse of drugs, which in many cases are more used to ensure a burdened working situation for employees than in the case of the patient. Knowing that Norwegian health care providers have average six–seven somatic diagnoses in addition to a possible dementia diagnosis, it goes without saying that controlling drug use is one of the most demanding medical and medical challenges. That is why, in my opinion, is a very important point to address to strengthen the medical coverage in a nursing home. It is incomprehensible that we have organized ourselves so that in the hospital sector there is one doctor for every other patient and in hospital on average there is one doctor per. 180 patients. I'm not going to say that it should have been the other way around, because it would be driving it well far. But it's a pretty meaningless use of medical competence. Let me also add that it is not an answer to this to introduce compulsory tour service for young candidates in nursing homes, because it can very quickly make bad. On the one hand, young doctors may be vaccinated for life against wanting to work in a nursing home, and on the other hand, they may expose the most difficult patient group to those doctors with less experience. As long as there is no guide competence available to fall back on, I think this is a dangerous way to go. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State to say in its final article what he intends to do with the proposal that the Right has promoted several times balances the pay gap for doctors between working in hospitals and working in hospitals. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1351	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1354	It is great that the representative Vigdis Giltun puts dementia on the political agenda and gives us the opportunity to shed light on the situation of the many affected. It is estimated that approx. 70000 Nordics have this disease and with the closest relatives at least 250000 people are directly affected. Demos is a popular disease that affects the whole of society and must no longer be a private matter, marked by forbearance, shame, ignorance, guilt and taboo notions, which many have felt it has been. Knowledge of dementia both within and outside the health and care services is increasing, but still related to persons with dementia on the move both between different rooms in the department and between departments to solve the problem of lack of space in the institution. Such things create insecurity, anxiety and anxiety in dementia with language problems and oriental difficulties. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Government has presented the Demen Plan 2015 «The Good Day». It is essential to increase skills, provide day-to-day activities and better adapted accommodation as quickly as possible. The challenge is that the Demen Plan 2015 has to be more than nice words on paper, it has to be implemented around the municipalities, where people with dementia live, and where they also receive their health and care services. I was very pleased with the Council's response today. I think he pointed out very many good actions that are in progress and that will come. Nevertheless, when visiting the municipalities, I get the impression that very many still have not made a separate plan about dementia in their care plans, and that this is not included in the municipal plan for this period, as the Demen Plan 2015 assumes. However, I am also aware that some municipalities have already included a separate chapter on dementia care in the previous roll-out of the care plan, and that they are well in the process of developing good offers. Also, in the case of cooperation with non-governmental organisations on internship schools and discussion groups in local dementia associations through the National Association for Public Health, there is a lot going on. It is that it is often the relatives who observe the first symptoms and are confronted with the individual’s anxiety and uncertainty. Therefore, it is important to have an investigation and diagnosis as quickly as possible – not least to ensure that people with dementia are met with respect and dignity despite memory failure and altered behaviour. As the representative for Wage was also involved, dementia develops over time, and therefore, service provision must be organised at all times according to the level of function and service needs of each individual. Nearly half of all people with dementia live in their own home, but only 6 pst. – 6 pst. only – offers necessary and planned day activities. This is important for residents with dementia. For those who live alone, it is important to ensure adequate nutrition and activities that individuals feel masters. In addition, for those living with other family members, it is important to have a discharge and a little time at your own disposal for the caregiver. They can realize that the demente is offered day-to-day activity. When it is known that approx. 80 pst. of all those living in nursing homes with dementia, it should have been suggested that the entire group should have lived in departments with six-eight patients, especially organised for their needs. The rest – 20 pst. – should be in departments designed and adapted to patients with other needs. Therefore, it is important that we also have funds associated with plans for the conversion of hospitals to several dentures. Respect for the dentures, their experiences and feelings requires both competence and sufficient resources for interdisciplinary environmental work to avoid over-exploitation of sedatives – to give the ‘Good Day’ to the dents, of which we are all so concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1377	In the context of Sylvia Brustad’s presentation of Demenplan 2015, she used a quote from Sturla Stålsett. He has said that dementia does not just happen. ‘about the sick and the closest relatives. In a way, dementia care is about all of us. About what kind of society we want. And how we look at the human world.” I think that's very well said. And how we care about our older people is very much about what kind of society we want to have. There are some reflections I would like to take also after having been sitting and listening to the debate. I think the older you get, and when you also get demented, the closer and safer conditions become more important and important. What was left in the speech to Brustad in its time, and which also went back to the state council posts here today, is that ‘bad is good’. The center party is accused of saying it in a lot of contexts, but especially with regard to dementia care and the relationship with the elderly, I'm sure it's absolutely right to have small and good relationships around the individual. It's about whether it's in the big city of Oslo or in the town of Ilseng. I myself have been so lucky to have two grandparents. Both have received dementia, and I have seen how many good offers that are also given. For some of the problem, when we hear the debate, I think we get the impression that everyone is getting a bad offer. But there is a lot of good happening in Norwegian dementia care. Nevertheless, this is one of the biggest challenges that we have seen nationally. And there's also a lot that's not good. When we look at the numbers, this is going to be a huge challenge in the years to come. By 2040, the number of people with dementia could be 135,000 – twice as many as today. A lot of people have been into it. So it's a big promise we have to make to be able to get a good and safe offer all over the country. Several speakers have been involved in this with daytime activities and relief places. I think it's one of the most important things, because it goes very long from the first signs coming and you start forgetting the first words, the first names, until you're directly nurturing. Then having good daytime activities, having relief places over a little while, so that the family can have a little breathing room, take a little vacation, get the energy back, I think it's absolutely crucial. Once again, there are the little practical solutions in everyday life. It takes a long time to get into trouble until you're completely nurturing. I also believe that we need to look at the arrangements that are around the individual family and the relatives in terms of leave, payroll and pension provision, and not least practical and financial assistance to adapt the housing in cases where it is possible and desirable to continue living in your own home. Then there's another theme that's been a lot up today, and that's knowledge. It is important that anyone who needs more knowledge about dementia can take part in a course in one way or another, share experiences with others. Because I think one of the most difficult things for a spouse or the nearest family is to be uncertain about how to deal with the one you're so happy with, more or less goes into a demented life. In connection with Demen Plan 2015 and Care Plan 2015, it has been said that a report on the work and fulfilment of it will be available in each municipality proposal. The most important thing we do here in Stortingen is to strengthen the local authorities' spaces of action, so that we get enough people to do a good job. For this is about each municipality having its own adjustments. It's not sure that we're sitting here in the main hall, which sees what's the best solution anywhere, but I think that the escalation we've seen in this period in terms of the municipal economy and the number of people is a very important start. But we have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1402	Demented patients in Norwegian hospitals have serious mental problems. We've been documented that many times. They lack diagnosis and proper treatment. Dementia has been partly concerned with the pure storage of human beings. I think we have to be so honest, even if it has our improvements gradually. And a lot of medicine is being used -- it's about keeping the dents quiet more than helping the individual. I also have to take these numbers. Everyone needs to remember the number. As we've heard many times today, 80 pst. by the sick home dwellers of dementia, but it's only 20 pst. of the dents spaced on screen devices. It also looks as if it is a bit random who ends up on those screens. This study shows that demente is a large group that is overlooked and that receives far too poor follow-up. This has to worry us all. We know that the large number of older people who will need more care in the future – it's not that far ahead either, it's just in the next few years – will have dementia. Then it is important that we have arranged arrangements also for those people who have easier dementia and who live at home. Because it's also true that there are many people who live at home who have dementia. In addition, there is a need for a different offer: a care allowance for relatives, a day-care allowance, a check-out and a possibility to get an assistant. Here, too, comes the word interaction. There are many actors here, and we need to get a better interaction between the different levels, the different actors. In addition, of course, we need to be more observant and better researched about dementia and mental disorders among the elderly. I believe that we need to get more training for more groups of professionals in the field of dementia. It applies to nurses, caregivers and others. Others have argued that the medical supply in Norwegian hospitals is not good enough. I guess we've found that so many times that I just have to say that I'm completely in agreement with that. The sickest of the sickest in our society are being eaten by less than ten minutes per. week. At least there's nothing to be proud of. Or maybe a little bit for the interpellant. It's very good that the interpellant takes up this discussion, but how are we going to get better solutions? I would like to say that in the Left we believe that this group of older people – i.e. the dents – will at least have major problems in making use of the solutions of the Advance Party in this area. Rights discussions are fine for those who are able to complain, but they are often not sick, nurturing and at least not dementing the elderly. I could have said the same thing about the price financing system, as the Progress Party also wants. Nor will it help those who have a composite diagnosis, and we don't get any more nurses and caregivers or laymen by arguing about who is going to run a nursing home. The left suggests that the organisation of care for the elderly is the responsibility of local politicians as well as that they are responsible for having a good supply for their elderly. Local politicians are responsible for showering, getting good enough food and having a good range of activities, and providing care to those who need it. The Council of State was committed to this with the interaction reform. We in the left are very few in the intention of it. I think I've said that before, but I'll repeat it. As I said, we are quite a few in that the municipalities are going to have a stronger position, because that means more real local democracy. But we in the Left also believe that greater municipal responsibility for health services, not least, requires stronger and larger municipalities. I believe that the Council of State and the Labour Party are some with the Left in that there is a context here. But then we all know that the Central Party is in government, so I must finally be allowed to challenge the Council of State: can the cooperation reform be carried out without changing the municipal structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1417	I would like to thank you for a lot of good input into this debate, posts that went far beyond what I was really going to debate. It's important to have the whole thing in your dementia care, both what's going on at home, and what's going on in your nursing homes, but I didn't intend to stretch it as far as community reunions and stuff like that. But what I would like you to look at a little bit more is the need for nursing homes and the need for organized places. There are 24 000 dents living in hospitals today that do not have an organized place. That does not help the reconstruction grant that has been used to improve it. In addition, we lack a lot of sick homes, and it's a reality that until last year there was a real drop in coverage in sick homes for them over 80 years. So you have a lot to take back, and you have to be realistic if you're going to be able to make everyone feel good. So this is the medication thing. The mismedication is quite serious, because it causes those who are demented to become much sicker, and that they also suffer damage. That's something you should look at quickly. Now you can't take medication from these patients without being given anything else as a substitute, and there's what these environmental measures come in. You should focus a lot more on that. It should also focus more on the existence of other solutions, not least the caregivers, which largely recommend or continue to recommend medication. I think it's very serious what came out in the report. As Wages said, research reports often reveal unpleasant things – things that show great weaknesses. I think it's our job to take this a little bit further. Although hospitals are the responsibility of municipalities, and although very much of the health services are the responsibility of municipalities, it is a responsibility that the Stortinget has delegated. We still have the main responsibility, and we can't blame it because if it's delegated to others to exercise it. When we see that there are major failures and things that have to be done differently, you may have to go harder than what you've done now to make changes, and changes have to happen faster. I myself agreed to plan the construction of a dementia department in 1995, and since that I think it has happened very little. Then there was going to be a small department at some hospital, and then it was okay. It goes too slowly, and it goes beyond the very, very illest, those who cannot discharge their own rights. They don't know what kind of drugs they're going to have, they can't say from, they can't find out on the Internet, like we can do, and read that they might have had something else. They are left to the physician and to the hospital staff both for the treatment of their diseases and for how they should be treated in their everyday life. There I hope that we can give something stronger signals so that something faster happens, so that this seriously ill group gets it much better than it has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1428	I would also like to start by thanking you for an interesting debate. I very much agree with the Representative for Wage when he says that it is important that we now debate, because the challenges we face in the years to come are formidable. I have to admit that there is something that really worries me, is that it has not, I think, sunk over public Norway what we are facing from challenges. I talked in my main post that in a few years there will be tens of thousands more dentures, and that is in a period when the workforce falls. And that's not just dementing it becomes more of, also the general challenge in the care sector gets bigger, and it's going to face a situation where we're still far from controlling the development of lifestyle-related diseases. So there are some huge challenges we're facing, and then, of course, it's important that the country's National Assembly has debates of this kind. So it's important that we rejoice that things also go in the right direction, which I tried to say something about in my main post. Only an additional information in this way, subject to having got everything right: there were now new figures from KOSTRA, the census system in the municipal sector, which says that in 2008 there were 1,500 more annual jobs in the care and care sector in Norway. I say the ‘care and care sector’ – that means that some of the employees do not work in the care of the elderly, but nevertheless, it is clear that many of them work there, and there is a very positive development, clearly more employees. And maybe equally important, out of the 1,500, there were 1,300 in vocational education. It helps to strengthen the professionalism of the ministry. The last thing I just want to comment on is the question of medical coverage. My approach to that is that I take note of the Health Directorate, the Medical Association, etc. has said that there is a need for 50 pst. more permanent teams. They shall be used in such a way that they have better time per day. patients, but they must also be able to obtain more public non-profit medical work. I believe that the proportion of fixed-term working time compared to the type of work should be increased from today's 20 pst., probably up to 40 pst. So if we get over 2,000 more fixed doctors, and twice as much time for public non-profit work, it's a good foundation to also strengthen medical care in hospitals. But it can be done in many ways. This is just saying something about the amount of the resource. It may well be that your own medical doctors should be adapted to such a model, but it will therefore have a bearing on the total amount of medical resources in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1437	Case No. So 9 is over. The meeting is now suspended. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 to continue dealing with the issues on the current map. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1473	The overall objective of health policy must be to ensure that patients are provided with the best possible provision of health care within the resources we have made available to them. This may appear to be a matter of course, but this interview will illustrate that there is not always consideration for patients who control the development of the health service. The right considers that the necessary health services should be publicly funded. This is the only way everyone can get health care regardless of the individual’s financial situation. However, we believe that private actors would like to be able to provide healthcare, if this provides better quality and good resource use. For patients, it plays little role if the hospital or clinic that performs the treatment is owned by the state or others, as long as they receive prompt and good treatment paid by the public. In the right, there is a positive impact on the diversity of healthcare providers, both public and private. This gives several options for patients. The private sector represents a useful and important correction and can help improve public hospitals. The four-way clinic was established to help reduce the long queues of heart disease requiring treatment. The feiring clinic is a private, ideal hospital owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease. When the hospital was established in 1989, Norwegian patients were sent to Scotland and England for necessary surgery. The investment for the construction of the centre is entirely at the expense of the patient association. However, the clinic has treated patients on a public health mission, thus contributing to the faster and better treatment of patients. To date, 17 500 patients have been operated by the clinic and in addition offer angiographic investigation and blockage. The four-way clinic also offers a unique range of heart rehabilitation that provides patients with a better opportunity to master everyday life and work after end of treatment. The clinic itself finances research and education, without public support. According to the public’s own source of quality assessment, Free Hospital Selection Norway, the Feira clinic is of higher quality than the other heart research and treatment services. They have fewer infections and deletions of planned operations, and no corridor Asians. Patients are more satisfied with the offer at the Feiringklinik than with any other hospital with similar treatment services. «The patient must become the head» stated the Council of State in VG on 9 July last year. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. We believe that there is concern for patients and the quality of treatment to control the development of healthcare. But in many cases this is far from reality. In fact, there is a need to protect the public supply that is essential for the design of the health service in several areas. During the time of the Right, health cows were significantly reduced through cooperation with private actors. We believe that all good forces must be used to ensure faster and better treatment for patients. The celebration clinic is, as stated, not a commercial hospital, but is nevertheless affected by a policy with the overall aim of protecting the public supply. Despite the high quality of the Feiring Clinic, it is an explicit objective of regional health businesses to reduce the clinic’s activities. Managing Director of Health South-East, Bente Mikkelsen, in an briefing to the Management Board on 8 March 2007: ‘From 2005 to 2006, there was a slight decrease in patients from the East Health Region of Feiraring. This development is expected to continue in 2007.’» The Board of Directors of the University Hospital Nord-Norway budget procedure in September 2008 reads as follows: ‘Passenger leakage is greatest for heart treatment in the Feiring Clinic [[...]] There are several examples of such statements. A patient contacted us recently, and I also know with the Council of State, because he felt he was being denied the opportunity to choose the offer at Feiraring over the offer at the Rikshospitale. The patient rights adopted by Stortinget are effectively set aside for hospitals that want to protect themselves from competition from others. This is also documented by reports from the Health Directorate and the Health Authority. Professional developments in cardiac therapy have led to fewer surgical operations and increased use of less invasive forms of treatment. This is positive for patients. As a result, it is also necessary to convert the offer of cardiac therapy. At the same time, all functions in the metropolitan area need to be converted in order to pool the professional environment and to ensure better use of resources across institutions. However, the question arises as to how this migration is to be carried out and as to which offers are to be reduced. So far, the activities of the Feiring Clinic are reduced more than the total decline in Health South-East. This is done despite the fact that, as mentioned above, the offer is of the best quality and is considered to be the best of the patient himself. Although there is a need for adjustments in the overall capacity of cardiac surgery, waiting time, corridor Asiatic and deferral of planned operations in public hospitals remain. In view of this, there must be room for private services providing quality services. I would challenge the Council of State to respond to whether he supports the assessments made by regional health companies, namely that the Feiring Clinic should be the balancing item in the current conversion work of regional health companies. As is now the case for the Feiring Clinic, the offer is at risk of being closed down because the hospital has too few patients to maintain a proper and necessary level of operation. A closure of the Feiring Clinic will be a symbol of a misguided health policy in which the best offers are closed as part of public empire construction. Majoring candidate Are Health from the Workers' Party in Akershus had an post in the Romanesque magazine on March 11th about the celebration clinic, where he pointed out: ‘If our system prevents the operation of an ideal and patient hospital that is the best in quality, we must exercise political system criticism and change the course. It is not more difficult.’ I fully agree with that. I couldn't say better myself. We now have to do everything in our power to prevent this from happening. State Secretary Sundsbø has stated in the local press that the Feiringklinik will pass. The central question, however, is what the Government intends to do to fulfill this promise, at a time when the offer is threatened. I would like to ask the Council of State to make proposals on how to secure a place as a national offer to heart patients in the country in the future. The current funding system favours public enterprises through 60 pst. basic financing. The right considers that we need to use funding models that ensure more equivalent funding for public and private services, so that the quality best and most cost-effective offer is preferred. For the treatment of both heart disease and other health problems, it is challenging that the DRG system provide incentives for specific treatments. Treatment of cardiac disorders in surgery provides far better financial clearance for the establishments than other forms of treatment. This is probably also the background to the fact that the heart centre under Oslo University Hospital only wants completed patients to have surgical treatment. What improvements does the Council of State think can be made in the funding system to adapt it to professional development and appropriate treatment? It is claimed that public hospitals operate more extensively in the form of emergency preparedness, research and education. But private businesses can run full-scale hospitals, like the Diakon home and the Lovisenberg Hospital do today. The four-way clinic would like to contribute more research and education if they are given the opportunity to do so. The situation at the Feiringklinik illustrates a general problem, namely the dual role of regional health enterprises as owners of their own health businesses and as providers of health services. This prevents an independent assessment of which offers are best for patients. The system prevents equivalent competition between public and private undertakings based on objective assessments of quality and cost-effectiveness. This leads to poorer provision for patients and poor use of resources in healthcare in the long term. With the challenges facing healthcare both in relation to priorities and economic balance, it is essential that cost-effective solutions are preferred. I look forward to the answers of the Council of State, and especially to what place he believes the Feiring Clinic should have in the public health sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1543	As you know, regional health establishments receive almost all their income through state resources. This shall enable regional health establishments to take overall responsibility for the provision of specialist health services to the population in their health region. This is referred to as providing responsibility for the population and is governed by the Special Health Service Act. The follow-up to the responsibilities of the healthcare provider group or through the conclusion of an agreement with other actors shall take place. This choice must focus on the solutions that provide the best possible health care for the funds allocated based on the needs of the health region. Regional health enterprises must properly handle and combine responsibility with the role of owner of the health business group. This is an important back door for interpellant questions. Private actors range from small ideals to large commercial organisations. The feiring clinic was established as a limited liability company in 1989 and is owned by LHL, the Landsföreningsför Herz- und Pulmonary Sickness Association. The clinic offers investigation, treatment and rehabilitation to adults with heart disease. Since its establishment, the Feiring Clinic has been an important provider of care for adult heart disease – mainly in Health South-East, but also for the other health regions – among others. through the right to free hospital choice. In 2008, more than 4,300 patients were investigated, and approximately 2,800 patients were treated with blockage, so-called PCI, or heart surgery. A growing share of the business is rehabilitation, and in 2008 approximately 350 patients have a four-week rehabilitation stay at the Celebrating Clinic. Private actors play an important role in the implementation of health policy and have a predictable framework. Health South-East RHF has operational agreements with five private non-profit hospitals that are closely integrated into the Health South-East RHF group. Health South-East RHF is also a significant player in the purchase of healthcare from private individuals. In 2008, Health South-East bought such services for approximately NOK 3 billion. The Government Acquisitions Act sets the legal framework for such purchases and provides for different forms of acquisition. In order to optimise the handling of purchases, Health South-East has developed a strategy for the purchase of healthcare from private operators for the period 2008-2011. The strategy implies a differentiation between private non-profit and private commercial actors through the choice of acquisition form. Health South-East RHF treats the Feiring Clinic as a private non-profit operator and uses an acquisition form where they negotiate directly with the clinic. In order to contribute to maximum predictability, a framework agreement of four years has been concluded, which can be described as a maximum limit in the Acquisition Act. Within this framework agreement, annual performance agreements are negotiated on activity and economy. The conclusion of annual performance agreements must be seen in the context of the need for the regional health undertaking to deal with the annual government budget, which provides a basis for the action space in the region. Health South-East RHF is based on an assessment of the needs and total capacity in this area when negotiating annual performance agreements with the Feiring Clinic. Then comes something very important: until 2004, there was a steady increase in cardiovascular surgery, but then the number of surgeries has fallen with reduced needs. Better prevention and more prudent treatment approaches are important reasons why the need for surgery has fallen. There is a positive development that Health South-East RHF must take into account in its assessments. At the same time, the health region has a large public offer for heart disease at Oslo University Hospital HF, with an operating capacity one and a half times higher than at the Fairing Clinic. These are factors taken into account in the agreement concluded with the Fairing Clinic in 2009. I believe that the private actors should continue to be valuable contributors to the public specialist health service. They should be complementary when there is no treatment provision or insufficient public capacity. Privates may also be an alternative to the public if this means lower costs and/or better quality of service. In any case, the use of private operators shall be governed by public interests and based on real needs. Changes in needs and medical developments have consequences for both health businesses and private actors. This means that regional health enterprises have to make demanding adjustments to optimise the overall provision of services and to distribute the activity between their own health business group and the purchases from private operators. In its framework agreement and through the negotiations with the Fairing Clinic, Health South-East RHF has highlighted the political governance signals that there should be maximum predictability for private non-profit actors. The reception clinic has competent staff and offers high-quality services. This has been taken into account as an important element in Health South-East RHF’s evaluations, and Health South-East RHF has therefore facilitated the continuation of the celebration clinic, in a situation of reduced need, as a supplement and alternative to the public service provision of heart disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1562	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am glad that the Council of State is in favour of the private actors, that he stresses that they should be a supplement and an alternative to the public offer, and that he is concerned that they should have a predictable framework. But the Council of State answers show – I believe – that he has not taken seriously the situation of the Feiring Clinic, which is actually threatened by closure. Governments do not provide any signals to ensure the further functioning of the Celebration Clinic. He shifts responsibility to regional health businesses. However, the Council of State is the owner of the regional health companies and has overall political responsibility for the specialist health service. That is why he and the Government will have to take political responsibility if the celebration clinic is to be closed. If the offer of highest quality and highest patient satisfaction is abandoned, it will be a symbol of a misguided health policy. I believe it is directly wrong to say that Health South-East and the other regional health companies facilitate the continuation of the celebration clinic. On the contrary, as I have pointed out, it is an explicit objective to push this offer down and out. The agreement with regional health companies has been so severely reduced that the clinic now has a critically low patient mass. It's got 40 pst. fewer referrals of patients in the first two months of the year compared to last year. This negative development is due to the fact that all regional health businesses – not just Health South-East – have reduced their agreements with the Fairing Clinic. I believe that no offers should be protected from conversion, even the private ones. However, it is alarming that the best offer will be reduced, that the Feiring Clinic will almost become a balancing item in the current conversion work. Is this a policy behind which the Minister of Health? Is this good health policy? Wouldn't it make sense to keep the Feiring Clinic as an alternative to the public hospitals? Another key issue is how the Council of State will ensure that the offer at the Feiringklinik is seen in a national health policy perspective without the short-term self-interest of regional health companies being crucial to the design of the offer. Also, the Council of State does not respond to the challenges I have pointed out regarding the dual role of regional health businesses as owners of their own health businesses and as providers of health services on behalf of the population. I am – as you can see – not very pleased with the answer. I think it is serious that the Minister of Health has not realized the difficult situation that the Feiring Clinic is currently in. I would be amazed if he was behind a policy that would allow the celebration clinic to be closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1579	This is important. From my point of view, it is very important and essential to take the Feiring Clinic seriously. It is an important complement to the public health service. And, as I said in my post, Health South-East has now concluded a four-year framework agreement with the Celebrating Clinic. I'm going to assume that the Feiring Clinic knows what is going on when a four-year framework agreement is concluded on how the cooperation should be between the public and the private in this area, and that it is seriously behind the signature when you have entered into an agreement. Then you can’t come to Stortingen’s pulpit and ask questions about whether the celebration clinic should be run. The celebration clinic itself has entered into an agreement with Health South-East for four years, where it is to be negotiated annually – and that is the basis for the celebration clinic itself to believe that it should be able to operate. I assume that they are not a non-profit party to conclude agreements where they do not think they intend to deliver. So this deal is in place. I'm glad, because the Feiring Clinic is an important partner. So I think it's another very important moment. If we look at what's happened in the heart, we see that luckily it's now that more and more of those who get heart attacks get an acute blockage, i.e. PCI. So if you fall back here in Oslo's streets now tonight with a heart attack, the chance is great that in an hour you'll be in the heart lab in Ullevål Hospital and get the block out right away. It's a very great advantage for us as possible cardiac patients. Of course, it also leads to some challenges, because the same thing happens in Tromsø, the same thing happens in Bergen, and the same thing happens in Trondheim. So it's clear that here, the Feiring Clinic has to realize that you're facing some conversion challenges, because very much of what was planned in the past is happening urgently -- it's a fantastic medical and technical development that we're facing. This makes it quite natural that e.g. The University Hospital in Tromsø says that the people of North Norway should also have this offer. We can't use the Celebrating Clinic to the same extent in those cases where we can now give the PCI another way. So when we look at the waiting times in this area, we clearly see that the capacity is large, and that challenges us. In bypass surgery of the heart, the Feiring Clinic has a week’s waiting time – but it also has Oslo University Hospital. So the capacity is very good. When we look at PCI, i.e. blockage, the celebration clinic has three weeks waiting time – but it also has Haukeland. So this isn't a long wait. And we have to congratulate ourselves on the fact that the need for this type of medical activity is decreasing, and that technology is continuing. And up to that, we need to change – and, in my opinion, the Feiring Clinic will be part of the overall offer in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1588	I'm going to try to raise my voice – we in the back row hear some appeals in front of the Storting that almost compete with the speakers up here. The issue we are discussing today is very important because it is an example of a non-commercial private operator, i.e. a voluntary organisation, which has built up an important complement to the public health service where we have lacked capacity – since 1989, it was well. Then there were a lot of patients standing in an operating queue who had to travel to England – the so-called heart bridge. It is particularly demanding in this way to build up an offer — a hospital or clinic — that concentrates on one highly specialised area. This means that it is now necessary to go into a special way of building up skills, long-termity, equipment, etc. I myself have had meetings and contacts with the Feiring Clinic several times in the course of this big time, last week, to address the issues involved in developing their offer. And the starting point must be that they have taken on a great responsibility, taken on huge commitments over a long period of time, which means that we must act with the same responsibility when we deal with them and their future. So I guess I'd say that the Feiring Clinic doesn't have to be a balancing post in the processes we have in the health care system, but also not a sacred cow. It is a challenge, as the Minister of Health described very well in the last article, that developments in this area of treatment require changes. It is reflected in the fact that Health South-East in its agreement with the Fairingklinik this year has fallen a good deal in the number of DRG points that they order – I think it has fallen by well 10 pst. In addition, as the inter-pellant has described, both Health West and Health Nord, which have not used the Feiring Clinic so systematically and have not had their own agreements, have reduced the number of patients they have there, and the free choice system does not function optimally in this area, as in many areas, because the information may be too poor. So it's obviously a challenge to find the level that's needed for the Feiring Clinic to have a life base. They have decreased their activity quite a lot since 2002 and have taken on a good part of the job in adapting the activity to the new level, because things are done in better and more efficient ways, as the Minister of Health described it, even in the form of shorter bedtime. We also use the operating rooms for a larger part of the day, which we should do even more in the years to come. The thing about this adaptation for the Celestial Clinic is that you're so much on one leg, that's heart medicine. And it is important that Health South-East takes into account that the offer, if you need it as an important supplement also in the future, must be at a certain level in order to be part of the health service you have seen needed now. It's important, when the interpellant Sjøli from the Right takes up that discussion, also to have a common principleal approach to it. When it comes to the issue of deficits at the Fairing Clinic, it is – and I have seen the development of deficits – that there was a large deficit in, for example. 2002–2004. So it's not just this year that there are problems with the economy at the Celebrating Clinic. We have a common problem. Our governance system, which I believe is still in place, is, of course, designed so that it is managed by the health care company Health South-East that has to take into account how they will provide an offer to all of their patients in this area, and how they will fit the celebration clinic in that facility and ensure that the celebration clinic is present, is part of what you obviously need in the years to come. I see that the time is running out, but I want to say that the quality arguments that the representative, Sjöli, comes with are important. I believe that when we get a new cardiovascular treatment register, as the Minister of Health has warned, we will have an even better basis for assessing the quality indicators that we have now had, which will then be comparable in different parts of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1605	This case illustrates what happens when the Government implements its targeted health policy, namely to systematically phase out private operators in the market. The celebration clinic has been a pioneer for 20 years. It took away the heart line in its time. There is still a clinic that many people choose to use, not just because of waiting time, which is now beginning to be equal to different places, but the clinic represents some of the highest we have in the treatment of patients who have heart valves, constrictions or tight blood vessels in the heart. The clinic is well-known. Everyone knows someone who's been to Feiraring. Celebration is linked to quality, safety and dignity. It is high in patient satisfaction and in various studies. Maybe Feiring has just helped raise the quality of the public offer, because it has had something to measure itself against. But there has been considerable uncertainty about the further operation for several months now. It has been notified cut. It is clear that there will be a large and difficult transition for an enterprise that does not have a particularly good economy. It is easy to understand that it is impossible to run a job with 250 employees on short contracts. The reception clinic must have good, firm and long-term frameworks to deal with in order to invest, to develop and to retain and recruit highly qualified staff. State Secretary Dagfinn Sundsbø has determined that closure is not relevant. It will be contrary to national political leadership, he says. He almost guarantees public intervention if the closure would become relevant. I hope he has a back cover for this promise. It must be very difficult for him to be able to guarantee something, because it's actually those who run it, who have to decide whether they're capable of moving on or not. The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease is a user organisation that has developed this unique treatment provision, driven by the needs of patients, while operating the clinic financially and efficiently. They have succeeded in all areas, both professional and human. It turns out that top quality can be developed when patients own and operate the hospital themselves. The health business model itself appears to prevent private clinics from continuing to develop and remain an important part of the treatment provision. The fact that healthcare companies are both in place to order and perform, as mentioned here, is unfortunate, and it turns out that health businesses are increasingly keeping money within health businesses and not buying services, even if it would be best for patients. The Progress Party has previously proposed its own state funding outside the budget of health businesses, as we believe that Feiring is a very special heart centre with a high level of competence, which should make it reasonable for all health businesses to use more than today. The policies that we see are being implemented also lead to new ones not choosing to establish themselves. There are some players who have been in the market for a very long time, clinging firmly and trying to drive. We see that many people have to give up, for example. Cure epileptics, a rehabilitation centre for epilepsy, which had to surrender after their agreements were constantly cut, so that they could no longer operate. We also see that new ones do not dare to establish themselves in the market. It's a big weakness. Because it's just the private people who have been involved in running the offer, and who have shown a lot of ways to give patients the best. We believe that the government has at least succeeded in one thing in relation to the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is to reduce the use of private and non-profit health providers. We hope there will be an end to it until the fall, after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1626	I noted with interest a significant difference in the message from the Council of State and what was said by the head of the government party in the Health Committee, Jan Bøhler. Where the Council of State in its reply seemed strikingly unconcerned about the situation, the representative Bøhler seemed apprehensively concerned. I think the representative Bøhler is the one who in this case has the best back coverage, or, to put it another picture, has the most solid grounding in relation to the crisis situation the celebration clinic is in. This is a tab of a much larger image. The previous period of co-operation management reduced health cows by about 85,000 patients, including: by strengthening cooperation with the private sector. This is clearly documented in the SINTEF Health Report 2006. Red-greens have gone in to reduce private use. It is clear from the Soria Moria Declaration – which the Council of State did not address in its response at all. To measure the results of health policy to date, the Council of State and the Government can sum up this: increased health cows, significantly higher hospital deficits, as many corridor Asians as before and a dramatic increase in money use. Health cows have increased by 65,000 patients from the beginning of 2006 and by 36 000 in just the last two years. This means that the government's policy has led to an increase in health cows almost as much as the co-operation government has reduced them. But then to the concrete. Governments were strikingly general and completely non-obligatory in their response. Another weakness was that he intended, especially in his second post, that cardiac therapy is about one thing, namely a particular type of surgery. It doesn't. Now to be completely concrete, I will quote from a letter dated 6 March. Liv Marit Tangen, Hurdal – she has allowed me to use the name – writes that she has had debilitating atrial fibrillation since 1999, and has had many ‘attacks’ over these years, usually three-four nights a week, with a heart rate of 130-150 per minute. ‘One gets tired of lack of sleep, too, in addition to the disease’, as she says. ‘Workability is reduced to a minimum.’ And then it comes: ‘I’ve called all imaginable institutions such as free hospital choice, and all four hospitals, the patient representative, the health care office abroad, and I’m a patient at the AHUS. I am not alone in getting a rejection; there are between three and five thousand waiting lists I have been informed." It concerns this type of treatment. Then she has attached a copy of the letter from the Rikshospitalet, where the Rikshospitalet rejects the reference from Ahus by saying that they have a waiting time of three years, and that it is not right to list patients on such a long waiting list at all. You can agree with that. Now I asked a question to the Council of State last autumn, and received a reply on 31 October, where the Council of State says that ‘the waiting time for ablation treatment for atrocities today is 3 years at the Rikshospital, 1 1⁄2 years at Ullevål University Hospital, 1 1⁄2 years at Haukeland University Hospital and 2 years at St. Olav’s Hospital’. We must be able to agree that there is an unsustainable long waiting period, which leads to heavy additional burdens on patients and to unnecessary costs both for society and for employers. As former Minister of Labour and Inclusion, the Council of State is well aware of the major challenges we face with high levels of sick leave. He also knows that it is important to apply treatment early, because long-term sick leave often leads to disability. My specific question is: Will the Council of State take the initiative that the Feiring Clinic, which has all the prerequisites for contributing very effectively in this particular area, can help to reduce waiting times from three years or one and a half to two years respectively, to almost nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1651	There is, as far as I can record, full agreement in this room that the celebration clinic is going to last, and that the work that has been carried out at the Feiring Clinic right back to 1989 has been a very significant effort to ensure the quality of Norwegian cardiac surgery. But at the same time, it is impossible to discuss the Feiring Clinic completely isolated, as some people do here – I think Vigdis Giltun may go especially far in doing so – without seeing the overall heart surgery environment in Norway as a whole. As the Council of State pointed out, there has been a development from open heart surgery with approximately 4 500 interventions a year to gradually reduce it, while there has been a significant increase in the number of blockades, including stent insertion. It can't be that you have to make an agreement that if patients are far more deserving of surgery with a stent, they will still have to do open heart surgery at the Feiring Clinic. But someone here argues about it as if that's how you were going to do it. I also think that some of the numbers drawn out from the Feiring Clinic are going to be quite misleading. There's an impression that there's a significant decrease in the number of interventions, and then only the numbers of open heart surgery are drawn out. There were 1,100 open-label cardiac surgery at the Fairing Clinic in 2006. The figure was 996 in 2008, and according to the agreement now concluded, it is 640. It's a significant decline. At the same time, they had 1,891 blockages in 2006 and 1,826, which are almost the same number in 2008. When you know that heart surgery is taking place in all the health regions in parallel, and that this development is taking place in all the health regions, this is not about the government undermining private activities. It's about the government adapting to the situation that has evolved, and where you get other types of surgery and partly conservative treatment instead. It would be completely pointless if you were to gradually build up Ullevål University Hospital, now Oslo University Hospital, where the training of cardiac surgeons is taking place, in order to make the interventions take place more and more in the Feiring Clinic. Then someone might say yes, but then we can start training them at the Celebration Clinic. I think if you think about it, you see the pointless thing about it. Should you not also train specialists in cardiology at the University Hospital in North Norway or, for that matter, at the Haukeland Hospital? This is about the totality that we have to take into account, and the balance sheet that is. I also think that the focus on the development of the Feiring Clinic in some other areas is too inadequate. I myself have been to the celebration clinic and seen. There are fantastic premises there, including: a rehabilitation unit with a significant capacity, built with public funds, without any decision ever taken by the public to build it. I talked to heart surgeons there who made 2-3 million. kr a year, and that was what they should have. When I pointed out that the prime minister made $1 million. At that point, they said, "We have a lot more to do." There's something about the whole culture where you clean up the economy, and sometimes you start losing the public for professionals, which, of course, we're not going to support here. This does not mean undermining LHL as an organisation or the celebration clinic as a clinic, but that means meeting part of this development with counter-conceptions. Then you can't say without criticism that the Feiring Clinic should be protected, while the rest of the business should have to take it, because it's public. What will the public health system finally look like? Some people here talk as if there has not been any public heart surgery in Norway, and that it was the Feiring Clinic that started with it. Then I have to remember that it was in 1983 the Rikshospital conducted its first heart surgery. After all, the professionals with which Feiraring operates are mainly from public Norway – from the Rikshospitalet, from Ullevål, some from Tromsø. I've talked to many of these heart surgeons. What they're describing is that there's been a salary level at the Feiring Clinic that's been beyond and that's been involved in draining public hospitals for resources. Luckily, it's been deregulated, and you've made agreements that are completely reasonable, that's also what the management of the celebration clinic says. But it didn't make sense as it was a while at the celebration clinic. That debate has to dry up and not praise it as if there have been no problems with the use of public funds at this clinic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1668	First, I want to thank the interpellant for travelling this interpellation. It's about the Feiring Clinic in particular, but it also has a principle aspect related to the Government's handling of agreements with private non-profit institutions – as I see it. There are probably not many heart patients in this country who don't know about the Feiring Clinic, who have been operating as a heart clinic since 1989. It is known for its high quality and competence. This is also evident when you go online and look at www.frieschusväll.no, where the feiring clinic scores high – not to say the highest – as regards the ‘total quality of the hospital’, which is again based on different quality indicators. We are many who are now seriously concerned about the future existence of the Feiring Clinic. This is, as many have experienced, an institution that has had to adapt to changes, with downsizing and reduced surgical activity — to mention something. However, recent developments are so dramatic that it is uncertain whether they have a future operational basis. The background is that regional health businesses are increasingly reducing their agreements with the Fairing Clinic and state directly that they are going to take on more of these activities in their own health businesses. The question is whether this is a politically controlled process, and I refer to former health minister Sylvia Brustad's demands in the mission documents to use private institutions less, and to take over more in public. Or is it the regional health companies that are allowed to run on their own a slow spin-off that eventually ends up in a complete state, as we have seen in the field of drugs, psychiatry and child protection institutions? In my view, the fact that different governments have not intervened against large reductions and the winding-up of non-profit institutions is alarming. Let me mention Solbu, a psychiatric institution in Oslo, that closed the doors last fall. Let me mention two of the institutions of the Kimerud Foundation for drug users, which also had to close last year. And let me mention Styve Gard for Children's Protection, which has reduced the agreement to three – only three – new children of four institutions in 2009, it's highly uncertain how long they can run. What distinguishes these institutions is not that they have had poor quality offers; no, there have been economic savings measures that have been behind them. And we know that all institutions must have a certain basis for activity in order to be able to operate at all – so also the Celebration Clinic. So now it's time to go to the Feiring Clinic. If it had now been so that public hospitals in general had free capacity, we could understand some of this. But it's not like that. Waiting times are increasing, queues are increasing, planned operations in many areas are ironing out, and health care businesses have a number of priority tasks that they cannot solve. And in such a situation, the government allows one of the best heart clinics, not to say the best, in their specialty fields, to be at risk of having to enter the years. In fact, I expect the Minister of Health to take a clear political position that the Feiringklinik should be operated as part of the public offer, and not leave this to the regional health companies authorised to conclude agreements when appropriate, as I have shown today that they have done in other areas. Finally, a question to the Minister of Health. If Health South-East chooses not to renew the agreement in 2010, or does a job so low that the Feiring Clinic must be closed, it will no longer be part of the free hospital choice. Does the Council of State think that the regional health company, that is health south-east, can do this on its own?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1689	The interpellation has created a good debate here in the Chamber today. I myself have been in the board of directors of the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital until the last month, and I know that part of the private ideal hospitals well within the diaconal business. We in the Center Party have a great heart for these ideal hospitals that are at the crossroads between private and public, and that do a great and important job for our welfare community. And our welfare society has been largely built up over time in the interaction between the ideal and the public, and also with the municipal community, which has built up services that have become national public tasks. There are ideal businesses and municipalities that have often shown their way. I could give a lot of examples of that. And still, within today's health system, the private non-profit organizations are absolutely crucial. For example, from the government parties a few weeks ago, we had a meeting with the Norwegian Air ambulance – crucial for the national emergency response, an ideal business with 800,000 members in their backs doing a great job. All of us in our committee know that. When we listen to the debate here today, we kind of get the impression that someone wants to draw a black and white picture; that those who were in government in the last period, are just for the private, and that we who are in government in this period, are just for the public. That's not true. If you look at the budgetary procedure now the last harvest; who were the government parties adding more money? Well, it was for the private ideal businesses. Both within the hospitals, within Modum Bad, within rushes and within psychiatry, we added it to the private ideals. That's where the government parties chose to prioritise our treatment here in the house, so there's no fundamental resistance to the private and ideals. The action of the members of the Committee has shown the opposite. So to that particular thing in today's interpellation, and that it ends with in relation to the celebration clinic. Although it's almost just what we've discussed, it's the last sentence in the interpellation. We in the Center Party believe it's important that the celebration clinic continues. Our State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Care, Dagfinn Sundsbø, has been very clear in his meetings out there, that it is important to be able to find a still safe and good basis for the Feiring Clinic, but that you see that today's challenges are different from yesterday's challenges, and that you create room for change, so that they can cope with the challenges we see today because technology and medicine have progressed. State Secretary Sundsbø also said during his visit that it is important that you have the opportunity to plan for time for such a large business as the Feiringklinik, and that you must have contracts with a certain time horizon to deal with. I fully support this. Health South-East must in its dialogue and in its agreements ensure a predictable business so that one can change and solve the challenges we face. As I started with, the Center Party is committed to strengthening the diversity of the Norwegian health system. It includes the private and non-profit enterprises. Creating predictability for businesses such as the Feiring Clinic is essential if they are to be relocated and also to be an important player for people in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1709	The celebration clinic has always had a good sound in my ears and as long as I can remember, not least in that part of the country where I have bid for the last 25 years – in Nordfjord in Sogn and Fjordane. I know many patients who have received good and necessary health care at the Feiringklinik. I would say that in many ways this is a confirmation that the Feiring Clinic has been important to many individuals, being important to Health-Noreg – not least – and he has been for many years. He was a pioneer, as we have heard, and made an offer that was absolutely necessary for Health-Norway in 1989 and beyond. The celebration clinic has been a resource, and in my view we have good use for him also in the future. As we know, when you're going to build something, not least within a complex area that we're talking about here, it takes time. Now, stone has been built up over many years, and it takes a relatively long time. They have shown that they are of high quality; they have a good supply. But tearing down, on the other hand, is done roughly on a blond. What is important now is that the Department and the Council of State see that the operations at the Feiringklinik are in a critical phase. The Council of State said in its statement that custody is important for the Celebrating Clinic. He probably meant that the current framework agreement and current performance agreement, which is named, are good enough. But if I'm going to understand the realities of what we've heard from the interpellant's side, and not least what the representative of the Feiring Clinic has said, and if the agreements are of such a nature that the clinic is in danger of being laid down, as the interpellant has to say, the agreements cannot be good enough from the Feiring Clinic's side. I and the Left believe that this threat picture that is drawn about the possible closure of the Feiring Clinic is so serious that, in our opinion, the Council of State cannot avoid going into reality and really checking out what is the fact here, so that one does not risk destroying something that is built up over a long period of time, which has proved to be very important for Norwegian patients and Norwegian health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1718	The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, opens up saying he has a ‘great heart’. I don't know if it can be arranged at the Feiring Clinic, but I've heard that there are signals to be taken seriously, in a double sense. I am pleased that the Minister of Health and Welfare has today stated that the Feiringklinik has its place in the Norwegian healthcare system, that they should be a complement to the public service provision for heart disease and that they should have a predictable framework. Obviously, the Stortinget cannot determine which medical functions are to be performed in different hospitals and clinics in Norway, but I would say that the Feiringklinik is in a somewhat special situation, all the time when the Celeryklinik built up an offer that did not exist in other hospitals. For 20 years, the state has been completely dependent on the type of services that the Feiringklinik has offered, and today it offers. In parallel with the offer at the Feiringklinik and its development over 20 years, public hospitals have built up similar services. When we are in a situation that may indicate that the need for this type of service is going down, I would say that the state has an obligation to ensure that the unique environment of competence at the Celebrating Clinic continues. The State has been totally dependent on it for 20 years, and this should also help the State to continue the offer. It is in a way a fate irony for the owner of the Celestial Clinic – the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, LHL – that the need for heart surgery now seems to be going down. I said that the public hospitals have expanded the offer for what we are talking about in the last few years. It also belongs to the situation that we are now in, and what we are discussing today. If this type of service continues to be less needed, the Feiring Clinic must be treated in the same way as other hospitals. There must be reason to ask whether it is natural for heart operations to take place, as at present, at three different locations in Oslo, as well as at the Celebrating Clinic – i.e. in four physical locations in Oslo and Akershus. The question is whether it is appropriate. I don't think that's it. It is also part of the capital process to look at the services to be provided where in the capital region. I believe that if the need for heart surgery goes down, the offer must also be seen in the public hospitals, not just the offer at the Feiringklinik. Here, the state must be able to have two thoughts in its head at the same time, both looking at the overall service provision and the need for this type of service as a whole, and at the same time be able to signal that the State needs to continue – and wants to continue – the celebration clinic as the good environment of competence it has been for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1731	Thank you for the debate. What is clear is that everyone wants the Celebration Clinic to last in the future. Everyone is concerned about the situation at the Feiring Clinic, except the Council of State, which I don't seem to have shown any understanding of the seriousness of the celebration clinic. It is a fact that the number of operations is lower now than when the agreement with Health South-East was concluded. I don't think the State Council should owe you at the Feiring Clinic. It's Health South-East that's pushed the number down so far. It was liberating to hear the representative Myrli. I could have kept that post myself. He says very clearly that the offer will last, and that the public offer must also be looked at in this context. Perhaps there is some of the public offer in the Oslo region that should be brought down, just to maintain the competence and the great and strong offer at the Celebration Clinic. There is one question I would like to raise with the Council of State. In the case of the DRG system, which gives an incentive to specific treatments. We know that treatment for heart disease with surgery gives a much greater financial count for the companies than other treatments. That's, as I was in my post, maybe the background that Oslo University Hospital only wants pre-diagnosed patients. What improvements does the Council of State think can be made in the funding system in order to adapt it to professional development and appropriate treatment? In the end, although the number of state secretaries is almost as high as the number of patient queues, it has not yet become the case that we have private-practice state secretaries. Therefore, I hope the Council of State will clarify whether the State Secretary for Health and Safety's statement of guarantee, as has been referred to repeatedly here, is a believer. I want to know if the Secretary of State is speaking on behalf of the Council of State. Can the Celebration Clinic trust that the Government is behind this guarantee? I think this has come up with different signals. The one that has been most unclear, I think, is the Council of State. Otherwise, I perceive that the representatives of the government parties here in Stortinget have said that they want the celebration clinic to last. These signals – also from the opposition in Stortinget – I hope the Council of State will take them with me. He is the owner of the hospitals and is responsible for the offers. Should it be so wrong that the Feiring Clinic is shut down, it is one who is responsible for it, and it is the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1744	I think there might be a need to repeat a little bit here. So, it is said that I am unclear whether or not to operate the celebration clinic, and that as the owner of the hospitals, I have to make my position clear. But as I said in my post: As the owner of Health Southeast, I am pleased that Health South-East has signed an agreement with the Celebrating Clinic in March – i.e. this month – about business for four years. It ensures that we get a celebration clinic in the four years that are coming. That's an agreement I appreciate, because the Feiringklinikken is an important player in the overall health service in Norway. I have to say that it is the other posts here that raise questions about whether the celebration clinic was at its full five when they signed this framework agreement. I assume that this important cooperation actor knows what to do. A four-year operation agreement has been concluded with Health South-East. It is not possible to create a framework agreement of longer duration than that. I'm glad, because then we'll be at the Feiring Clinic in the years to come. I have to say that I think this is a bit of a strange debate. There are questions about whether two partners who enter into an agreement on cooperation for four years know what they are doing. I assume that Health South-East knows what they are doing, and I trust that the celebration clinic is a good partner. They have proved to be, and I have no reason to doubt that they are now too. I am pleased that this agreement has been signed by both parties. It forms the basis for the operation of the Feiring Clinic in the four years that come. Then I have a comment on it, and it's related to the posts of the representative for Wage and the challenges of patients with atrial fibrillation. When waiting time is as long as it is in the case of atrial fibrillation, it must mean that from a professional point of view this is not defined as a suffering that is so serious that it falls within the different rights set by the Patient Rights Act, for example. for treatment abroad. It is obvious that when the waiting time is so long, the severity of the suffering is professionally defined as small. Nevertheless, there is a clear challenge from Wage to see if this is something we should improve the offer of, and whether the Celebration Clinic can play a role here. I'm going into it, of course, and I don't have any ideological problems assessing whether there can be any alternative tasks for the Feiring Clinic as well. But the main point is that a four-year framework agreement has been reached. I'm glad. It is my hospitals that have completed it, and it ensures the operation at the Feiringklinik. We should all be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1757	Case No. So 10 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1763	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1890	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Laila Davøy on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Right and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1913	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 2, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:114 [[2007-2008]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1938	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Vigdi's Giltun on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Here's a correction for what's in the configuration. The right shall also be part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1961	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the Norwegian Patient Compensation Scheme in order to improve patients’ rights and conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e1990	During the debate, Mr Tegen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:118 [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2045	It is the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the vote, and the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2060	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Inge Wage on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2 by Mr Giltun, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the setting on page 3, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 3 in the course of the debate turned into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess, by 2009 at the latest, the effects of the surrounded funding mechanism on physiotherapists, both in terms of physiotherapists and patients’. The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to improve access to physiotherapy treatment and to give patients greater freedom of choice by removing and replacing the physical therapists’ contractual arrangements with a system in which all physiotherapists are given the opportunity to treat patients with the right to reimbursement following referral by a doctor or other medical professional with referral rights. The new scheme shall not result in an increase in the self-payment of patients.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2094	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for schemes replacing current requirements for agreements with municipalities as a condition for private physiotherapists to provide publicly funded health services. The scheme must ensure faster access to the necessary physiotherapy services, as well as good prioritisation and resource use.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2100	The Progress Party has announced that they support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2113	Inge Wohnung has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2116	I will almost ask the President to consider whether it would not have been more correct to vote alternatively between the vote and proposal No. 1, which we just voted on. Because it's a matter of course, of course, of being an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2121	The President has nothing against taking the vote once more, if that is the wish. Is there anyone who wants to oppose that we take the vote again and vote alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1? - It's not. So let's do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2137	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16.ana.ud2307e2218	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
