ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of Odelstingen's meeting today – and see it as a deal. The President will propose Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not in line, and Per Rune Henriksen is in agreement with the election of the President-in-Office of the House for today’s meeting in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e49	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to five lines with replies from the Minister of Finance and three lines with replies from the main speakers from each party group and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Then the president proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e60	We have discussed the appropriations earlier today in connection with the creation of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund in Stortinget. What we are about to deal with now are the laws that regulate the creation of these two funds, through the Inner East. O. No 48. The financial crisis has developed rapidly into a very serious economic crisis. The uncertainty has been, and is still, very great. The red-green government has been very ready to have continuous monitoring and a readiness for action in relation to development. We have underlined that we will quickly come up with new measures if the situation so requires. And that's exactly what we're doing when we're now dealing with these new measures to improve the lending opportunities for households and businesses. Some political groups have commented that it is too small and too late. Now, when we see what we have come together through, for example, the banking package in October, actions aimed at GIEK, Export Finance, the Municipal Bank, through the 2009 state budget, the package of measures recently and now the credit package, hardly anyone can blame us for the lack of it. As for the comments that this is too late, I want to go into the medical world. One doesn't amputate the foot of a patient who has pneumonia, but you give penicillin. A heart operation does not occur until a patient has tried preventive measures. With that, I try to say that targeted measures must be put in place quickly as one sees the path of disease development. If we were to bring all the measures together to mitigate the financial turmoil, we could quickly be at risk of putting the wrong measures in place at the wrong time. I think we should be so honest to say that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the development of the financial crisis both nationally and – not least – internationally. What I can say is that there should be no doubt that the Government will come up with concrete measures when development requires it. The aim of the State Financial Fund is to offer core capital to banks that meet the general soundness requirements. It is necessary to maintain normal lending activities. The purpose of the sovereign bond fund is to contribute to increased liquidity and capital access to the bond market through the purchase of units of interest-bearing instruments of Norwegian issuers on commercial terms. The bond market is, as is well known, dried out on the way. The State Financial Fund has been proposed to be established as a legal entity with its own Board of Directors appointed by the King. I see there has been some speculation about how such a government should be put together. In my opinion, it is important to stress that such a board of directors needs professional qualifications to solve the tasks assigned to it. By doing so, I believe that the board members must have a high level of competence, for example, in the fields of economics, law and accounting and auditing competence. So I think there's another issue that's important, and that's that we need to find competent people who have a sufficient distance or independence from the banking system. What we're doing now is offering capital to the banks that can be recognised as original own funds. This form of capital injection will be classified as a State aid measure. The system must therefore be designed in such a way that it can be approved by ESA. In the case of the State bond fund, this is proposed as a known model of the State pension fund – Norway. The Ministry of Finance shall manage the bond fund itself and will place a separate capital contribution into the Swedish Social Security Fund. Then it is the task of the Folketrust Fund to invest in ordinary debt securities issued by Norwegian issuers on market terms. Here, the situation is simpler in relation to State aid legislation, since State investment is not normally considered State aid. These two measures will complement each other and help to facilitate the situation of business and households. It is my opinion that these measures, which are very well received by both businesses and banks, are good and effective instruments in the situation we are in. Then turn to the Financial Committee's position. In the same way as in the examination of the question of appropriations, there has been a strong willingness within the Committee to examine the matter expeditiously, without prejudice to the Committee's ability to have a proper examination. In the oral hearings, I have recorded that the NHO has been strongly involved in the duration of the capital injections. In this case, the duration of preferential capital deposits is five years. The proposition thus shows that if the capital is not redeemed after five years, the capital injection will automatically be converted into ordinary shares or certificates of basic funds. In the case of the fund bonds, they are initially designed as perpetual but with incentives for redemption estimated after four or five years. Here it comes as known its own rules. Thus, the intention is that the arrangements should be temporary, not that the State should remain in possession of these capital deposits on a permanent basis. The opposition has been constructive and there has been a strong willingness to make a broad consensus on the measures visible. This was also the case in dealing with the banking package last autumn and when the Stortinge dealt with the fiscal policy package a short time ago. The shades of vision are always, and I want to say that it should just be missing. But the main elements are the broad uprising about, and I'm happy about that. This makes it very clear that the political parties at Stortinget are active and solution-oriented. It's important now that we're in a serious and challenging situation. We all want to use the space of action we have through solid government finances to mitigate the effects of the international crisis. Not all parliaments have been equally united when the financial crisis has called for global political decisions. Without comparison, last year we saw the rope drawing around proposals for the crisis package in the United States and especially when the House of Representatives voted down this package at the end of September. It is important that the Ministry and the Government have room for action so that the arrangements can be designed in the most appropriate way possible. The majority therefore confers wide powers to the Government. I record that, at the oral hearing, the Chief Financial Institution of the financial industry, at Arne Skauge, expressed confidence that the Ministry of Finance would handle this mandate in a good way. This trust is, among other things, based on positive experience in the management of the banking package last autumn. However, if the major and major changes have to be made, it is natural for the Government to return to the Storting appropriately. Then it is that the Storting naturally wants a system to be established where one has fixed reporting procedures back to the Storing about the business and the status of the funds. All the parties have commented on this, partly with concrete proposals. Of course, from the side of the government parties, we have also been concerned about it. We have assumed that the Government reports on the activities of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund, and we have stated that it would be useful if we used the Credit Message, which is presented each spring, for this purpose. The Progress Party points out that when we deal with the banking package last autumn, we did not include restrictions on management salaries and bonuses. To that I would like to point out that there is a significant difference between what is being done now and what is being done in the banking package. The main point is that there is no condition for wage reduction, etc. in the case of public measures which do not involve State aid. For example, there are no conditions relating to the supply of liquidity by Norway’s Bank under standard conditions or other market measures that are not State aid. The banking package constituted a purely market measure that is not defined as State aid. ESA has agreed to this – it is enough to refer to ESA’s decision of 18 December 2008 that the exchange mechanism is not subject to notification of State aid. The measure now implemented through the State Financial Fund is State aid to banks. It is then natural for conditions to be imposed, including conditions on cost limits, not least in the form of limits on remuneration and other remuneration to managers. The system must also be notified by ESA, as it is in conflict with EEA legislation. However, we have good hope and faith, and there is already a contact with regard to the fact that this would be good to be notified, not least because it is a temporary scheme. The difference between last autumn's exchange scheme and today's credit package is no more hocuspocus than this. The right and left also have comments where one refers to the fact that it is not a government task to regulate the salaries of private companies. However, these batches appear acceptable when making favourable arrangements by the State. In my opinion, the government has made good clarifications with time limits in which management salaries and other benefits are not to be increased, as is the remuneration of bonuses. Then the opposition parties have Right, Christian People's Party and Left comments in relation to caution in the limits of dividends. The main message is that these arrangements must be limited in time. I would like to link some comments to questions relating to a bank's access to dividends to shareholders or fund holders. This is regulated as known by legislation. In general, there is no access to paying dividends that unduly weaken the entity. In my view, it is natural in today's situation that a restrictive dividend policy is being pursued. Where a bank is provided with capital through the State Financial Fund, it is important and necessary to avoid a deterioration in that capital injection through, for example, high group contributions, dividends to the shareholders or fund holders. Here I would like to point out that solutions in relation to dividend limits will be further described in a separate regulation, and that the fund will agree to this with each bank. Several have stressed the need for active work on internationally coordinated or globalised legislation. That there is such a need, I agree. I know that the Government is active on several levels in international forums in relation to this issue. Neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance sits on the table on this issue and waits for high water, as we say in Finnmark. Finally, I would recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e121	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e124	It was noted that there are conditions for this credit package, while no conditions were imposed for the first credit package. It is explained by the representative Jakobsen that here it is the subsidy element, here it is not market conditions, while the first package was given at market conditions and market interest rates. Now it is well documented that the interest received by the banks was much lower than the one that could be obtained by borrowing from the market. Then my question is, if he still says that there are market conditions: Does the representative Jakobsen think that the banks in the case of banking package 1, credit package 1, could have gone into the market and borrowed as favourably as a loan from the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e129	Now, the situation was that the other market was dried up, or that interest rates were increasing very strongly. I would still claim that this was not State aid, nor was it contrary to EEA law. It was clarified in relation to ESA that this was not subject to notification, i.e. you didn't have to notify it. I would say that this is a completely different system than the first one we had, which came in October last year. So here we're essentially disagreeing in the way we think about it. And I want to say that it's the same way as having money transferred from Norway's Bank, on normal market terms. It was an exchange arrangement, you delivered home bonds, got back safer government papers, and it was conditional on the situation we were up in. But in my opinion, there is no state aid element in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e134	No more words have been asked for a line. The next speaker is Gjermund Hageseter, who has a speaking time of up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e139	Hold on, Gjermund!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e144	I registered that you were a little worried that I was going to use it all the time, and we'll see if it's necessary. It is probably possible that I will deal with less time than that. The thing we are dealing with today is, as the case-speaker was about, a new bank package, a new credit package, which aims to strengthen financial stability and facilitate the provision of credit to businesses and households. As the case spokesperson was about, there is a broad consensus about this package, and that is good. This is a credit package that totals NOK 100 billion. We have previously dealt with a credit package of NOK 350 billion. So it's going to be $450 billion, which is almost $100,000 per person. resident in Norway. This means that the credit packages in Norway are significantly larger than in most other countries. I don't think there is any country that has had a larger package per. a native of Norway. It shows that this crisis strikes at least as strongly inward Norway as it does in other countries. Already last summer, it was clear that, as a result of the international economic turmoil, challenges in this area were reported from a number of quarters in order to raise capital. The background to this crisis was that we had a bubble in the economy. It starts in the United States. Some then have blindly argued that this is almost the fall of capitalism, and that there is a need for regulation, etc. Of course, we're not against regulations, but there shouldn't be too many of them, and they have to be right. In any case, this crisis shows that the market is correcting when we get bubbles in the economy. It happens over and over again. From the tulip speculation in the Netherlands in the 1600s to the IT bubble and now to the supremacy crisis, the market has corrected when the bubbles in the economy become too big. That's good, and it shows that the market is the best traveler in this context. Gong over and over shows that once the market has corrected, it builds up again with a healthy growth in the economy. The question is how long it will take you to reach the bottom, and before you can start rebuilding. As the Progress Party sees it, a credit package with its purpose is perhaps one of the most important measures to return to more normal conditions in the Norwegian economy and to allow one to see better times in the long term and thus secure jobs, create new jobs for those who become the framework, and reduce the increase in the alert unemployment rate. The government has spent a lot of time putting these tools in place, and some think that this should have been clarified before. However, the Storting has dealt with matters quickly and succinctly so that the measures can be implemented relatively quickly. We also expect the government to have developed the necessary regulations on the implementation of the schemes in parallel with the treatment of the Stortinget. The establishment of the State Financial Fund and the State Debt Bond Fund means that the Stortinget provides Government with wide powers for the further development of legislation and conditions relating to the fund and the operation. It is therefore natural that the Government should regularly inform the Government about the operation and the status of the management of the fund's funds. The fact that the plurality is based on an orientation through the credit message means that the Storting will receive little continuous information. So we still hope that the Government, regardless of the comment from the majority, sees the idea that the Storting is being oriented somewhat more frequently. For the treatment of banking package 1 a couple of months ago, the Progress Party proposed wage and dividend limits if a company benefited from the scheme. We were alone in that. That the government now comes with such limitations in spite of harsh criticism of such a measure just a few months ago, is good and necessary, and this, we believe, shows that the government is receptive to good advice from the opposition. Two bank packages/credit packages have so far been needed to get the credit market back on track. Of course, then is the time to look at whether the rules and regulations in the financial sector have had the right arrangements. The solution is hardly more regulation, but more regulation. Regulations should not be too open to political discretion and short-term political gains. The financial market is integrated, cross-border and regulatory harmonisation internationally is a necessity. The progress party therefore wants to set up a banking commission in the first place to figure out what weaknesses the system has, and in what area the system should grow. We have made proposals on this before in the European Parliament today, and we hope that, through such work, we will also look at what action should be taken to ensure stability in the future. The Committee has carried out a hearing on the package presented, and I note that the tools are being widely developed, both among those who are to transfer capital and among our financial institutions. At the same time, a number of sensible points have been made through the hearing and input of the Committee in this work. I therefore hope that the Government will take these recordings into account in its work to implement the credit package – to ensure that the package has the effect that we all want, and that all parts can benefit from the measures. I therefore mention what it is important for the Government to look at in connection with the implementation. These include: the possibility of savings banks using basic funds certificates as a source of funding to capitalise on the proceeds of preferential capital from the State Financial Fund. It is also possible for traditional savings banks, which are not basic fund certificates banks, to use their preferred capital. And it is that the legislation and the criteria for credit risk are developed to provide the necessary flexibility in relation to the ability of the measure to take business with a more ordinary debt ratio. We also believe that the government of the State Financial Fund must be professional and that there must be no party awards there, and as far as I understood from the case-speaker, it is also in line with the view of the majority in the matter. For the Progress Party, it is important that the scheme is designed so that it can be in favour of the entire spectrum of Norwegian business, and not just of the largest and most solid businesses. The Ministry of Finance and the Government also have the possibility to look at it. It is important that these packages are five-fold, and that they are arranged in such a way that they ensure that the growth of the economy is restored, and that one thereby reduces the unemployment rate and limits the crisis as much as possible. The batch of progress thus gives its full connection to the proposed package. We hope that the department will work quickly, and that one will get a good device, so that these money will work quickly. I'm going to quit there, despite having over 10 minutes left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e181	Then we can spend a little bit of time in the line change. The progress page writes in the setting that: «the solution is not necessarily more regulation, but correct regulation». And then it comes: ‘Regulations must not be too open to political judgement and short-term political gains’. We have an expression in Finnmark that says we're "skin flat outline" when we're a little bit surprised. Does the Progress Party consider that the Norwegian regulation of the financial sector is too extensive and is it marked by ‘political discretion and short-term political gains’? In this case, where does political discretion and short-term political gains come into play, for example. the law under which the credit supervision is exercised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e199	I just want to repeat what we've said here, that we don't think more regulation is necessary, but we might need more regulation. And then we've pointed out a lot of things, and in those formulations it's not necessarily like this today, but we're afraid that one might use this financial crisis to impose more regulations on businesses and the banking sector, which may also be unnecessary. That's what we're warning against. As I said in my post, this crisis just shows that when it gets bubbled in the economy, the market itself corrects it. If you have too much regulation, you might get the opposite, that the market doesn't regulate itself, and that you don't get the bubbles that we've got.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e206	I heard the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, in his introduction, talk about proper regulation. He did not talk about maritime regulating markets; that concept was in that post left. But then it came out of sight. The representative says that the market is correcting the sea in case of bubbles that become too large. At the same time, therefore, the representative on behalf of the Progress Party is taking action to correct the consequences of the breakup. It is rare that I have experienced such a great inconsistency in an article. Here two horses are riding: apparently a market trailer, but chooses the country to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e213	A piece of cake or a piece of progress rides on horses. We've established here that proper regulation is important. But at the same time, we believe in market forces, and so we believe that when it gets bubbled in the economy, whether it's IT bubble, or it's housing bubble, or it's tulip speculation in the Netherlands in the 1600s, the market regulates this after a while. I am absolutely convinced that at some point all bubbles will be regulated by the market. But it does not, of course, prevent one from having reasonable regulation from the authorities, and it does not, of course, prevent what we think, that when there is a recession, the state should enter and contribute in such a way that one limits the effects of the recession, both by ensuring liquidity to banks and businesses and by stimulating activity in the economy in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e220	Theoretically, I fully agree that all bubbles in the economy are regulated in a market over time. The problem we're facing is, however, that the bubble that's now cracked has such consequences for people's lives and for the social situation in the world that all parties internationally enter with an offensive state to take the consequences of bulging. So they take responsibility. That's the best proof that what the representative here is talking about, that the market is fixing, is directly wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e225	I can't see that I'm wrong in any way. The point is that in a free market that has reasonable regulation from the authorities, which they must have, the bubbles are corrected. For example, in the old Soviet Union, there was no bubble that broke, but the economy collapsed. In a market-based society, the economy doesn't collapse, but where the bubbles crack one by one when they get too big. The market is correcting bubbles at some point in time, and it is of course important that the authorities also have both reasonable market regulation and measures to limit the consequences of the bubbles speaking. It's one of the things that we support here, that a hedge of liquidity and secures capital for banks and financial institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e230	Then the cord shifts over the bubbles.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e233	The rapporteur has given a very thorough and thorough review of this matter, both of its position and of the opposition's observations. I will just add a few comments to the matter itself. Before I do that, I thought I'd say a little bit to the rapporteur's introduction, where he says that the opposition and perhaps others say it's too little and too late, and where he points out that the dosage given is the right one. You can't amputate when you want penicillin, etc. I agree. But now we're seeing a big crisis all over the world, and the solutions are different in different countries. I like to hear someone who is absolutely sure what the prescription is for this. I think we're about to have some humility in relation to both the dosage and the medicine that is to be given at any time. It might change. I'm not sure if the Norwegian government and the red-greens have found the right solution. I think this is a moving goal that is going to change all the time. That being said, the treatment of the package has also gone quickly and smoothly in the Financial Committee this time. We are getting used to this way of dealing with matters, express handling. Of course, it depends on good cooperation between the parties here on the house and not least between the Government and the Stortinget, between the Council of State and the Committee. See from the right-hand side, we think it worked well. I have to say, in the situation we're in, it would also be alarming if the committee had presented a big crack attitude. This credit package is a serious package, a large package that has a significant impact on Norwegian business and Norwegian banking, and it is good that we agree on this. Let me just briefly comment on this with the savings banks, which the entire committee is concerned with. The savings banks are important throughout the country, also in District Norway. We are in a note that, in our opinion, further underlines what the majority has also said, namely that both basic fund certificates banks and other savings banks should be able to use the fund's preferential capital, which is now being made possible. Our note there is another underline. I think the nuances are quite important in these matters, so we've underlined it a little bit extra. When it comes to limiting dividends, we also assume, in a note with others, that we exercise caution with absolute dividend limits. This is not a classic setting for maximising the benefits to the owners. This has to do with the quickest possible functioning of the ordinary equity market, and it is therefore important to consider each case separately. In particular, it is important in relation to the basic fund certificates, which are a more purer dividend paper than others. Otherwise, banks that are solid or solid must also have the opportunity to operate equity in the normal way. In the case of management salaries, we believe in principle that it is not a State task to intervene in the determination of wages and salaries. But here, the government is making favorable arrangements. There is no doubt that there are subsidies in the schemes and business organisations accept the assumption. We take note of that, even if we also there, in the same way as in the case of dividends, think that you have to look at each case separately and show flexibility. I think it's important. None of the institutions are the same. As far as the bond fund of the State is concerned, we are of course in favour of the proposal, but we also stress there, a little bit stronger than the committee, that there should be a balance between what credit risk is to be taken and how to get the most into the scheme. We then also stress that it should not be prohibited to invest in debt securities below the so-called investment grade. It's in the proposition. The majority have said something about it. We underline this further and say that the purpose is to be able to operate flexibly, and to make companies with more ordinary debt ratios. So just a very small visit to this with follow-up and feedback to Stortinget. There's nuances, too. The applicant's rapporteur and the majority want feedback in the credit notification. We've chosen a slightly different formula. The reason for that is really relatively simple. In the time we're in, things happen very quickly. The credit message comes once a year, and you might be able to get reports more often. Now I am reasonably sure that if things happen that are of importance to the Storing, both will and should be informed by the Government through the ordinary budgets, which they have the opportunity to do, and also in the revised budget. The comments we make in this case are not very different. I'd rather say they're nuanced, and the whole opposition is on most. In line with what I initially said about the good cooperation and the common sense of crisis that has been advised in the committee, I expect the Council of State and the Government to look a little more closely at minority comments in this matter than perhaps what is common.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e259	Right-handed in the setting should be careful with absolute yield limits. The government does not impose a general prohibition on dividends. The proposal for a general dividend restriction is supported by the government party. We also believe that the State's financial fund can define more precise terms and conditions for profit-reduction. The reason for this is that a bank which receives capital through the fund should not be able to counteract the desired effect by paying dividends to shareholders or holders of basic funds certificates. The question to the representative Fleet is therefore: Is the Right agreed that it would be unfortunate if the banks used the capital provided by the Fund to pay dividends, rather than to increase the provision of credit to businesses and households?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e266	Yeah, I think so. But as I said in my post, there's a balance here. Although banks use this offer and increase capital, they may nevertheless have a solidity both in the context of the position they held and of the position they receive, even if they increase the lending, which will enable them to serve the capital to a certain extent. And I think, as I said, it's important. Because I think it's now that it might be hard to get other equity, but also in the short term, is important to show that you want to give the shareholders something back to make this work in the very long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e271	Both the opposition's comments and the fleet's posts are sober. The main point in the post of the representative Fleet was humility in terms of dosage and solutions, i.e. in relation to dosage requirements and solution options ahead, because the Right, like us, does not have an overview of the seriousness and nature of the crisis today. So one is unknown about what could be the situation of the harvest. What's happening is that the Right post is now free of any previous right-wing ideology of scepticism to an active state. And that's how the greater the seriousness of the financial crisis, the greater the distance to the Right's ideological foundation: set in the free market. It's an interesting observation, but from the Center Party and the Government side, we're happy that there's such a development going on in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e277	The representative Lundtigen sees the spokespersons for the completely free market of everyone who is on the other side of the line, but that is not the case. The right has always been for a mixed market economy. I do not think the representative Lundtigen finds any good examples of the truly liberalist policy in the Right. We're for regulation, it shows history. One can go back just to the close story in recent years. I do not remember a single example of our voting against the changes that have come from this government. There were also regulations under the previous government. Then you can probably discuss whether this – both under the previous government and under this – has been sufficient; should we do things in another way? But that the Right has been the spokesman for the total release of the economy, which one can get the impression of when one listens to the representative Lundtigen, I disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e282	It's an uncertain time we're in. The representative Fleet pointed out that there is a global crisis, but that ‘solutions are different in different countries.’ The representative is not sure whether the Government has come up with the right solutions. Then my question is: which country is it that the Right will refer to that which has more correct solutions than what Norway has? Will they refer to countries with lower unemployment, which have greater well-being or a higher standard of living? What are the criteria for Right-Right Medicine?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e287	I think the representative Klungland perceived my post and my little corrects to the representative Jakobsen wrong. What I tried to say, and that hasn't completely gone up for the representative of Klungland, is that no one knows what's going to happen. We should have humility in relation to that. And it's going to be completely wrong when the representative Klungland asks about which places I want to point out that do it more correctly than here – so his statement is that everything here is optimal. I can't answer that. No one can answer that. But I think it's important that we all have that humility, including the representative Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e292	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e295	We are now adopting a financial package with funding for companies through the State bond fund and the financing of the banks through the money we are now pouring into hybrid capital to ensure that the banks are paid to run a bank, as we discussed earlier today. What's interesting is two things: one is that this once and for all shows that the right wave, the ideological right force that has washed over the world, has helped to create a system that has been fundamentally unstable. The ideology of the right-hand side becomes in many ways – and I am talking about the right-wing fundamentalists who have great faith in the ability of the market to regulate themselves – the scrap of history's scrap. The second is that the round we have here and the review we have had, and what we are now proposing, shows that the right side of Norway, in terms of economic policy, for every day that goes, is more willing to use social-democratic instruments, as it is when the state sets up the way it does to make the market work. It's not just that we regulate, as parts of the right side have often been for, but it's actually that we provide extra for industries, for banks, when it's necessary for the sake of society and the best of society. That's good. It's really nice. If that means that we're increasingly seeing an ideological setback on the right hand side, we're happy with that on the left hand side. There's been a couple of different points here. One thing that I think is important to take into consideration in the future, when we start analysing the banking crisis and the financial crisis and looking at things, is to look at the role of bonds in the financing of business. There have been more critical voices in terms of how much more vulnerable businesses and banks are than we thought they were, when they have financed themselves through short-term loans, short-term bonds, because it is expected that this would be a good and liquid market, which suddenly was not there, and which creates risk and uncertainty for businesses. There we now set up with the State bond fund. But it wasn't obvious that a society and a state would come to do that. So there is uncertainty about funding, which it is necessary to go through and consider whether to weigh in other ways in relation to risk, etc. in time to come. We have to make an assessment of that. The second question that has been raised is whether the savings banks will be involved. On the part of the government parties, we believe that the Committee's comment is very clear. We refer to what the Ministry of Finance is doing, and what is going to happen to make sure that all the different ones in the banking sector get the opportunity to be involved. The savings bank system is a very important system for our government. We've been looking after the savings banks' future. It's quite obvious that when we make a package that we're doing now, we also make sure that the savings banks get involved. I also did not see the fleet's posts as an attack or some sort of distrust of what we are doing, but as a further clarification to show that the right-hand side and centre are also concerned with the savings banks. So there's one last thing that I think it's necessary to record. This is the turnaround of the Progress Party. For us who belong to the left, it's just to say to the Progress Party: Welcome after! When the Progress Party now believes that it is necessary to go in and regulate management wages, we say: Welcome after! This has never been part of the Progress Party before. They had a proposal in connection with the previous bank package, but it was a turnaround of the big ones from the Vorskritt party when they did. We are very pleased that they are involved in this package. But we wonder at one thing: is it so that the Progress Party in every context in which the state goes in and supports believes that we should be in and make demands for leadership wages? Is it the case that the Progress Party next time we deal with ownership policy in Norway would be willing to say that when the State owns shares, decent wages and restrictions on the pay and bonus schemes should also be imposed on the companies? Or will they still turn their cape after the wind, and turn themselves again?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e313	When the representative Holmås talks about turning around again, he is clearly inside an area that he has a good knowledge of. When we had the previous bank package, it was actually the Progress Party that went in to set terms and conditions if one were to benefit from these packages. SV went against. So it's SV that has turned around in this case. But what I thought to ask questions about, are regulations, which the representative Holmås is very busy with. It almost seems that the more regulations you have, the better it is. In the U.S., there's a regulation that if a bus driver has problems paying debts on the property, a person can go to the bank and deliver the key, and one is rid of the problem, the whole debt, even if the debt exceeds the value of the dwelling. Then my question is: does the representative Holmås think this is a sensible regulation, which we should perhaps also introduce in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e320	I do not think we should introduce it in Norway, but the representative of the Progress Party, Mr Hagesetter, should, of course, know that the Progress Party has always supported it in the form of deregulation, deregulation, among other things. of the American commercial banks, which, when Lehman Brothers went over, was the main reason for and in a way triggered the domino effect that caused us to have trouble in all the world's financial markets, precisely because there were no regulations. The Progress Party has turned its whole policy around and has gone from thinking that there should be minimum regulation to say that there should be proper regulation. But the point is that no regulation, for which the Progress Party was previously in favour, is at least very stupid. I see that Hageseter has asked for a new line. Then it is possible that the representative himself can answer the very simple question I asked, namely: is the Progress Party now going to go in order that where the state owns shares, you should also limit the management salaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e327	I hope it is okay that I do not answer the question that the representative Holmås asked to the Progress Party. Holmås has several times today taken a strong settlement with the market economy. I must say he has come back strongly after his convalescence, and has soon taken back what he has lost in the time he has been gone! This crisis is going on all over the world. But I realized – it is possible that I perceived a mistake – that the representative Holmås says that it affects less in Norway. Can the representative Holmås point to land in the world that has a different device in his economic policy, which comes well away from the crisis, because they have been so clever to stay away from the market economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e336	No, I can't do that. I don't have that overview in front of me where one goes through every country in the world to look at it. I would like to point out two good reasons why we are as good as we are. One reason I think is good is that we have a large public sector in Norway. The right will, as you know, build up and a smaller share of the economy will be public. They have a clear line on this through their fiscal policy. Through all the programmes, through all the budgets they have submitted, they have said that private growth should be greater than public growth. First of all, the reason public is stabilising is that we're able to withstand risk. And secondly, we have so many automatic stabilisers inside the way we conduct politics, that we make sure that by just being big, we stabilize the economy. I think very many, including companies, are happy that they have public ownership at this time. The second is good regulation of the financial system. There's two of the things that make us get out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e345	Let me first say that when I heard the representative Holmås here starting to replicate to the replicator, and really wanted to take a line on himself, it reminds me of an entry I heard 20–25 years ago, when Billy Graham was in Norway – he had a good translator to Norwegian, and the translator was so rushed at what was said, that he was lying in front and said what Billy Graham was going to say, before Billy Graham was told. But it's allowed to come back strongly also in the staging room. My question goes a little bit on this post that the representative came up with – that now the market economy is at the graveyard of history. And that's how Holmås is the socialist leader in our capital, so we should listen to the representative when he makes heavy ideological contributions. Now his party is rightfully a participant in a government that manages a lot of good market economy using several more moderate parties, and my question is: How much of the market economy will the representative Holmås have on historical scrap heaps that are not there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e353	If you compare Norway with, for example: The U.S., there's a lot of things that you let the market do in the U.S., that we're perfectly able to solve together here. I do not ignore the fact that there are several things that we should solve jointly in Norway – on the contrary, I can point out more. I mean, for example. that it would make sense if the dental system in Norway had to a lesser extent been left to the private sector and were more publicly funded. Kinderhager, who was previously purely market driven by low support and high levels of private participation, we have today ensured that it is a public responsibility. And that's how we can point out in several areas that I think it's necessary for the community to take over. I think in general I would say that the things that it is important to make sure that everyone has, we should make sure that they are under official control, as well as what goes on at key values and key institutions. I think we might, for example. – as both the Minister of Finance and I have been in the past today – we need to look into whether we need more public opportunities to stabilise lending to business. It just shows us this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e360	The cord shift is over. – The representative Holmås can go and sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e363	I saw that the representative Holmås would like to stay standing and have further lines. But I guess that wasn't possible this time. I have to say it's really an impressive comeback in terms of energy – whether it's the Snåsaman you go to in SV, or if it's still tran, I'm not sure, but something good is definitely – it's obvious. I could also be tempted to give the representative Sponheim a little explanation of how it was possible for the translator to lie in front of Billy Graham, but we probably had theological debate in Stortinget before today. So on to the issue of bond funds and financial funds. I think maybe it's limited how much I can do to squeeze out of the lemon that we've had for debate here, other than that there's a lot of consensus. I'm just going to point out a couple of points that we from the Christian People's Party are concerned about. Firstly, it is the access of savings banks to the funds. I have also noticed that the majority are concerned about it in their comments. We see that positively, because right here we had to have an adjustment to the first bank package that we had to deal with in the committee. There we also agreed to adjust the package, so that it got better compared to the savings banks – or some of them at least. The second relates to the bond fund and to the risk profile on which the fund is required. In the proposition, it is clear that you need to have a very moderate risk, and it was also supported in the hearing we had. I notice that the majority have submitted comments that might modify this little bit. In any case, it is clear that the fund should not go into and complete the financing of any enterprise, but that it should be done in cooperation with individual financial institutions. Perhaps the biggest effect of the bond fund is that the banks, as such indirectly, will contribute to a greater degree of financing of the business they need, by putting up with DKK 50 billion for the more secure investments, and that it will give banks more opportunity for greater risk positions otherwise. It is an important matter for us in the Christian People's Party. One thing is that we lose jobs because there is no provision for products, another thing is if we lose jobs because healthy business does not have access to the necessary credit and necessary capital. That's the last thing I hope this package will really help prevent. If it does, it has fulfilled what has been the purpose of it, and in that way it has also helped save jobs that, after the last numbers today, we lose too many of them at too much speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e379	We are now dealing with banking package II, a banking package that is the result of the crisis of the international financial market – a systemic crisis, cf. my post in Stortinget earlier today. We don't know the consequences. We need a system debate, and it is absolutely vital that we get that debate, so that we can get a cant above the situation. The bank package contains two parts. The first is the State Financial Fund. The fund is current for Norwegian financial institutions, which come under Norwegian financial regulation legislation, i.e. not Danish Focus Bank or Swedish Handelsbanken. This is the case for those banks or financial institutions that have weak equity, weak core capital percentage, i.e. have a fraction where equity in the numerator is too small compared to a weighted management capital in the denominator. The banks and financial institutions that are sound enough will not be interested in drawing bills on the State Financial Fund. For the Norwegian regulated banking system, this shall apply to all savings banks, regardless of the form of the company, with or without a certificate of basic funds, with large or small administrative capital. It will be central to the Ministry of Finance, which will follow up on the Committee's comments, to provide a regulatory framework to ensure that this becomes a reality in practice. Restrictive dividends, wages and salaries are required for the management of financial institutions — that is not the case. Any right, which in this case, must be followed by obligations. It's a solid Norwegian tradition. In the case of the sovereign bond fund, an overall committee has underlined that there will be no prohibition on investing in debt securities which are rated by the fund below the so-called investment grade. There is further opening to invest in debt securities with a slightly higher credit risk. And it's an overall committee that assumes that the bond fund's investments around it will reflect the composition of a normal -- I stress normally -- Norwegian bond market. The bond fund is therefore applicable to both listed and unlisted companies. Unlisted companies do not have a credit rating, as quoted on the stock exchange. Unlisted companies must have a satisfactory security, with guarantees in assets, such as buildings and production equipment. The creation of the sovereign bond fund is based on a situation where the market does not function as well as before, but where it is provided that it works, i.e. private investors participate in bond markets where the risk is sound. In the event that there are many undertakings which do not receive the necessary loans, despite the fact that the company in question has the right to operate properly and to survive if it has its credit needs resolved, the authorities should, at the time, ensure the establishment of their own State lending institution, in the same way as one in the past has done in order to resolve credit needs that the private market has not been able to meet, i.e. where the market is not functioning properly enough. It must be a central premise for a person to act in order to maintain a business life in Norway. If it has the right to life, it shall not be on the credit necessary to ensure that the business can be carried forward safely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e399	I registered that the representative Lundtigen explained that it was natural to set terms in connection with bonuses and dividends to those who accepted this hybrid capital, this credit package. He argued that ‘any right should be governed by obligations’. The ratio is that when we were dealing with the first bank package, which was NOK 350 billion, where the state offered banks loans at a much lower cost than in the ordinary market – if one at all had managed to obtain funding in the market – and so went in and took a risk for which one was not paid, the representative Lundteg said that it was not natural to make demands on wages, bonuses and dividends. Then my simple question is, what has happened in the meantime? What makes it natural to set conditions when dealing with this package, not the previous one?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e406	There has been an ongoing discussion — in connection with both the first banking package and this package — about the obligations. I have probably been among those who have always thought that justice should be followed by duties, and I have done so in various ways in public vocabulary. In the context of the first banking package, it did not seem natural, after an overall assessment, to go into it. Now at least on that point the cabinet is sitting in a different place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e411	I hear that the representative Lundtigen believes that the matter we are dealing with now is perhaps the forerunner of a government lending institution, a state bank. I'm glad the Minister of Finance has previously rejected it. I don't intend to ask Lundtegen about it, so he doesn't have to answer it. What I hope he will answer to concerns his introduction, where he said that we need a system debate, and that there must be a system debate – after he had also given the best of what he thought about the market economy. Could the representative Lundteggen say anything about where that system debate comes from? Can the Storting expect it to be the government that comes with it, in revised or other ways, or is there something that is going to happen only in the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e418	Firstly, I would like to stress that the Senterpartiet and the representative Lundtägen are followers of a market economy. We've never expressed ourselves in this room differently than we are on that foundation. We're on the market economy that's regulated, which is a product of an active state. Having said that, this crisis shows that we are in a systemic crisis, and I understand that the representative fleet agrees. And the representative Fleet wants to take part in a system debate. Where did it come from? Well, it comes from international forums. It comes up in matters as well as the one we have today, and it will come up in more situations in the future. And Stortinget can also answer that question on its own. The Minister of Finance has said that a financial market commission should be set up, and there will be an opportunity to follow up that work. I understand the question so that the Right wants to participate in that debate, and that's joyous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e427	I understand that the answer from Lundtegen to my previous question about the big difference between the bank package I and this bank package with regard to terms and conditions was that it had now been a while, that one had been allowed to discuss the issue of terms and conditions, and that one had now seen the cabinet in place and thus set conditions. And then Lundteg repeated that every right should be followed by an obligation. Then my question is: Does the representative of Lundteg believe that a person could also set terms in connection with the banking package I, both when it is due to wages, when it is due to bonuses, and when it is due to dividends – in the same way that we are doing with this package now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e435	There is a decisive difference, seagoingly, between the bank package I and the bank package II. In a banking package, the State made available credit through auction. In banking package II, which we are now discussing, the state makes available equity instruments through so-called hybrid capital or superhybrid capital. So one goes directly into capital that is involved in the business of the banks to increase the equity percentage of the institution. So there's a much more active intervention in relation to the bank's situation than the previous one. That's why there's good reason why someone in this case does. That was not a good reason for it in the previous bank package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e440	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e443	I'm going to try to avoid contributing to the polemics that are. So we're here with a setting where there's no disagreement, and then of course it's up to us to bring up some old disagreement and discuss it. This is the case with debated politicians. I want to spend my measured time talking a little bit about this whole problem, the serious situation we're in. Deepest, as in some other crisis package managements that have been, this is about an enormous crisis of confidence in the economy. That's what this is about. "Sure as the bank" is an expression that many of us have grown up with. We do have a lot of reason to say it yet, but there is a little bit of uncertainty in many of us as to whether that is the basis for saying it. That is the core of a crisis of trust that is there, and one is very uncertain about how extensive this becomes. Is it that even our safe, secure banks will have problems? What Odelstinget decides today, and as the Stortinget treated before today, is simply that the state offers to give its trust in banks, and in the next round to the bank's business customer, because the Norwegian state, as one of the most solid people in the world, has so much confidence that you can give confidence to the banks, and thus remove some of the uncertainty that many feel about whether the banks are able to stand through such an uncertain and unknown future as we are now facing. That's why this is important and correct, and so it's a total accumulation and gloating that is now joining up with what's happening. The fact that the opposition expresses its commitment to the government's use of its extensive powers there must be seen as the opposition's duty on behalf of the Storting – that when such extensive powers are given, we need to exercise the necessary parliamentary and democratic control of how the Government exercises its powers. I without further ado assume that the Minister of Finance and the Government will ensure that the Storting is constantly provided with the information necessary for the handling of their powers. One point has been pointed out by the opposition, and that is how the Government uses its powers to make dividend regulation regulations. Dividend regulation is clearly necessary when the country moves forward in this way, but it is absolutely essential – and that is what the opposition has to do with what it says here – that the dividend regulation takes place in such a way that it would be possible for banks in a hopefully more ordinary equity market to collect equity to replace the temporary contributions made by the State here. It's a long way to go what it's all about. And if a tightened this so hard that no one has the confidence to want to be the owner of banks in the future, the state will sit permanently with this ownership, and that is – at least from my point of view – not desirable. Therefore, what we want to have is ongoing information and have the opportunity to be in dialogue with the Government through the treatment of the Great Britain in the future when necessary. Then I want to say that the Financial Fund should go more directly into the banks and enable the banks – if they feel they need it – to get more equity and thus be able to borrow more money. In hearings in the committee, we have heard that perhaps about half of them. savings banks will be interested in making use of it. I would like to stress – because no one has said before in this debate – that the impact of this package, this financial fund scheme, is completely independent of whether the banks will use it or not, because it is about the state telling the world that we are presenting our banks. We give them the country's confidence that they're going to stand through this, and everyone who has to sit out in the world and look at Norway should know that our banks are going to stand through this, because the state has said we're going to take care of it. It's the effect that's going to hit all the banks, regardless of whether or not they're making use of this package. It might be the most important thing. This should be done, for example: could mean that more people should be reasonably confident that they can sit with Norwegian kroner and not escape from our currency and thus help to weaken the currency – as an example. As far as the bond fund is concerned, I believe that it can have a fairly rapid effect, by making sure that we will have an offer page in the bond market again. Hopefully, this system and the state alone will not be enough for many others to dare to join the bond market. It is this indirect effect that is the important thing. Once again, it is the State that delivers its soundness and trust in this market, and that makes others dare to do so too. That's what it's all about. It's actually so that if no one were to benefit from these packages, the effect would just as well be quite strong into the financial industries and our economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e462	I would like to start by thanking the Stortinget for a good and constructive cooperation in this matter, and for speedy treatment in connection with the establishment of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund. It is of great importance for market players to see that the Stortinge – opposition and position – can cooperate, that there may be such broad consensus on important actions to be promoted. We know that other countries have struggled with the fact that there have been games and political talk about action against the effects of the financial crisis. In Norway, we have proved that we can first set up an exchange scheme for banks and liquidity instruments quickly across the board – it was possible for the Government and the Stortinget to move quickly in October – and now we are quickly in place with two new instruments. It gives confidence. The representative Sponheim has a very important point when he says that even if these frames were not to be used, only that these institutions are set up and exist, that the government has proposed it, and that there is a certainty that there is unanimity in the Storting about it, that the money market rate is going down. I can't say that there are similarities between this, but at least it has made you get a little lower shoulders. We also see that the auction that was involved in the exchange arrangements this week has been used to a lesser extent than before. There may be several explanations about it, but one of the explanations might be that now the banks have a little lower shoulders, because they know there are more tools going on. Let me take some of the issues on which questions are raised. I have noticed that the Committee is concerned that all savings banks, including the small savings banks, should be able to avail themselves of the instruments now being promoted through the State Financial Fund. It will be that savings banks without a basic fund certificate will not be excluded from this preferential capital instrument, but it will be a great job for those savings banks that do not have a basic fund certificate to set up themselves in such a way that they can make use of it. That's why I think the fund bonds are going to be a faster way to use them, but that's the second part of the instruments in the State's financial fund. So this question that the Progress Party is constantly pressing on: why were no demands made regarding pay and bonuses in the previous round with exchange arrangements for banks? That's a very good reason. It is that these proposals we are now promoting are State aid. It is our job to ensure that there is legal state aid. But there is no doubt that we now have much stronger instruments in terms of the original capital of the banks than the exchange mechanism was, which was an instrument in terms of liquidity and is therefore auctioned out. There are no countries that have imposed some kind of conditions relating to liquidity measures, but there are many countries that have made demands on senior pay, bonuses and dividends related to this type of action that we are now discussing. I perceive that the Advance Party was engaged before Christmas, there was some desperate populist slump because they realized that they came out very badly, as Norway's only liberal party, of a crisis in which market liberalism went down just in front of the nose of the world. So to another question that has been raised, also by the Progress Party, that there should be some kind of evidence that the financial crisis has made an extra heavy impact on Norway when we promote as extensive measures as we do. It is true that we are promoting comprehensive measures, and we are promoting well-adapted measures at an early stage too, because the banks that can avail themselves of these instruments that we are now proposing are going to be solid banks, they must be approved by the Credit Authority. These are not crisis measures for banks. However, there is no coverage to say that because we propose comprehensive measures, the banks in Norway are ill. Banks in Norway are generally sound, and banks in Norway can reduce their balance sheet to protect their own core capital coverage. Business would suffer. In addition, we have the problem of the international capital market and the bond market that does not work as before, and that is the background for these measures. So to a question that concerns the composition of the Board of Finance, because there are also some people who clearly believe that we are going to stamp out our own membership lists when we appoint members of this board. We haven't thought of that. What we need here is competent people who know how banks work, who are good dealers on behalf of the state, because we're going to come up with the pricing of the instruments that now apply, in such a way that banks use them, in such a way that ESA approves them, and in such a way that we manage the state's resources properly and fairly. It is also important to limit dividends, and I understand from the debate that there is no one in the committee who believes that there should be no kind of restriction of dividends. Some countries have linked their actions in relation to the credit situation to the prohibition of dividends. We've also discussed that. However, the reason why we have not promoted a bombastic proposal to ban dividends is, among other things, the special feature of Norway with the large share of the savings banking sector in our banking market, with the specific characteristics of the basic funds certificates, and that is because we believe that through dialogue with the banks in this area, we can ensure that demands are made in such a way that it can also be possible for banks to find capital in the market. I guess that's really the issues that have been addressed. But let me end by saying that I'm jumping in the chair when I hear the spokesman of the Advance Party describe the background of the crisis, and what's happening now. When the representative Hagesetter says that the market is now correcting the bubbles that have become too large, and that it is good, you have to go far to the right in all the countries we can imagine, in order to find a similar stamp that what is now happening from market corrections is good. What is recognized in very broad environments, including among those that are contemplating market foundations, or were, is that the market cannot correct itself. This is evidence that the market cannot correct itself. That's what they say all over the world. That is why we are now discussing how to ensure soundness, how to ensure supervision, how to ensure objective rating, and how to ensure that this type of bubble does not occur by itself. It's because a bubble of this magnitude has such enormous consequences for jobs, for people, for well-being and progress. It's just that now you're bubbling around the world with state instruments, because the market can't correct itself. What Obama is doing right now is trying to find strong enough tools that make it at some point in time a kind of trust floor to stand on, so that it actually becomes possible to have confidence in making investments again for the future. That's the opposite of letting the market correct itself. We're going to enjoy that quote a lot in the future, because it just shows that it's not the right side that has the answers to the challenges we're facing. This is our agenda, and we must now contribute to the international debate in order to put in place the common rules necessary in a globalised economy, where we can promote proposals that are national, that can help our companies and our banks serve our businesses, and where other countries do the same, and where the sum of them hopefully is enough to create new trust. But there is no adequate answer to how we can prevent a similar crisis from reoccurring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e483	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e486	I'm pretty surprised and a little surprised at the Minister of Finance, who wants to go in and regulate, so that there are no bubbles in the economy. So now there's two bubbles. It's a property bubble, and it's also a stock bubble, which has made us get the downturn that we have now. There is no doubt that there was greed standing behind, and that caused these bubbles to grow. The Minister of Finance should know that there was also greed that caused the Government to want to increase the share of the State pension fund – abroad. Because one had seen that many had started money on the stock market, one also wanted to increase this share, because one would join the dance around the gold calf. Then my question is: if you're going to regulate away from the fact that in the future there won't be any bubbles, what regulation are we forced to put into action to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e493	I think it's almost unreal that during the most serious crisis in the world economy globally since the Second World War – in 60 years – you talk about bubbles as if there's something happening in this volume every two years. I don't think a market economy and capitalism will be on the even all the way. You want turns. But this is beyond what we've seen before! This is a huge decline in the economy, with very great consequences for very many people, for value creation, for almost everything we can imagine. The problem is that there are not yet proposals for instruments that make us know that now we've reached the bottom, and that the arrows go up again. I think it's an eye-catching description of the financial crisis we're in now, which is so hugely serious. We need international rules, which I was inside in my post, and our government will be on to get them in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e502	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e505	The progress party today asked questions about the interest rate on deposits went down with the previous bank package. Let me make it clear: it was the market that failed. It was the market that didn't work. I guess no one should understand better than the Progress Party that the price goes up when it's not a market. I think it is difficult for the Progress Party to admit it, but even the Progress Party must understand the problems we are now facing in the financial crisis. The market is not functioning without the contribution of the State. For the rest of us, it's not that hard. In the measures now proposed, the difference from what we adopted in the banking package, and as the Stortinget dealt with before Christmas, is that the banking package was intended to solve an acute liquidity problem. The banks did not pride themselves on each other and dare not lend money to each other. A bank that is not refinanced may go bankrupt, no matter how solid it may be. The banking package thus helped to relaunch the money market, although it is not yet normal. The measures now proposed are aimed at solving two problems that have arisen. Although banks have enough equity in relation to government capital requirements, the market requires higher capital adequacy before lending money to banks. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the soundness of the banks. In the short term, there is no problem for banks if they do not receive equity since they meet the legal requirements. But it's going to be a problem for them if businesses go bankrupt because companies don't get funding and therefore can't serve their loans in the banks. It is therefore in the interest of the banks that the problem be resolved. In order to strengthen the soundness of banks, they are offered State capital deposits. Conditions relating to deposits, e.g. the price has still not been determined, and it is therefore not certain how many banks will accept the offer. The second problem is that enterprises that usually finance themselves by borrowing abroad, or by issuing debt securities, do not receive loans. The bond market has almost dried out, i.e. that no one is interested in buying corporate bonds. There is also no solution for companies to contact Norwegian banks, because these do not provide loans to new customers. The central government bond fund shall therefore enter and purchase such debt securities. It is important to stress that the creation of the two State funds has an immediate signal effect, which the representative Sponheim had to say earlier today. Even before the measures start to work, we give a signal that the authorities are willing to go in and take measures to normalise the market. Such a signal is important because some of the problems are due to a lack of market confidence. I asked a question earlier today to the representative Fleet of the Right about which countries he thought had a better medicine than Norway. He could not answer that, but he at least asked the same question to the representative Heikki Holmås in the line change afterwards. The representative Sponheim said that one should listen to Heikki Holmås, because he was a socialist leader in our capital. Yes, it can be a very good thing to listen to socialists in the crisis that has now arisen, because this government has medicine in relation to what we have now seen throughout the period. We have historical transfers to the municipalities, we have increased the framework of Innovation Norway, we have increased the unemployment rate, we have increased the fight against social dumping, we have a historical investment in the road sector, we have a historical investment in the railways, we have a historical environmental effort, and we now have a larger public investment to counteract unemployment than we have had in over 30 years. There's reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e528	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 343]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e544	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies following the intervention of the Minister of Finance and three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e555	The Financial Committee has held its plenary session in Innst. O. No 46 for 2008-2009 treated Ot.prp. No 20 for 2008-2009, introducing withholding taxes on pensions. The plurality batches point to the fact that there are several reasons for introducing withholding taxes. It allocates the tax bases between different countries through tax agreements entered into. It is believed that it will help to prevent tax adaptations in an increasingly internationalised labour market, and it is believed that it will help not to erode the Norwegian tax base. I have great confidence that the position itself will explain its reasons and arguments, to conclude that withholding taxes should be introduced from 2010. I would therefore like to go over to the reason why the Right and the Opposition stand united in their view that the case should be returned to the Government, namely the lack of impact assessment for the taxpayers. Firstly, to the main justification of the proposition, it is difficult to say that the absence of a source tax base contributes to a substantial erosion of the tax base. I think it's shooting sparrows with cannons in terms of the tax groups we're talking about. These are pensioners who live primarily abroad for economic reasons, because their income is too small for them to get a good standard of living here at home. Many live out for health reasons. We know that some people travel back to their home country after they have worked and lived in Norway. These are not people who live primarily out of economic convenience, but who have plausible reasons for moving out. I think that is an essential basis. The Ministry also provides information in response to questions about what might actually be the uncovering of tax foundations, i.e. what is not taxed, that there is really a small picture of it, and states it on an uncertain basis to be about 50 million. kr. The justification for fiscal adjustment in an increasingly international labour market also appears to be sought. It is difficult to see that the labour market has a particular bearing on the tax on retired pensioners. I think there is reason to stress that this change in law could potentially apply to over 40,000 people living abroad, and that the proceeds for the state, after the department of the process has sometimes adjusted it down, are estimated to be about 230 million. kr. So we're talking about a tax-debt amount, but it might seem very unfortunate to some taxpayers. This is about taxpayers in a group that usually does not have too easily to deal with bureaucracy, if any of us do. It should, in itself, be of considerable care, and a specific responsibility in relation to the impact on taxpayers, both as individuals and as groups, because they are hardly particularly resource-intensive. It is the situation of taxpayers after the amendment of the law — not so much the alleged eroding of the tax foundation — that has taken up the rapporteur and the opposition. We believe that the consideration of taxpayers must weigh heavily, and have therefore sent the ministry a wide range of questions that naturally arise if one is to try to predict the situation of those who are going to adjust to the changed rules. It is our opinion that many of these answers reveal relationships around the bill change that seem too small, too bad or not determined at all, and where the consequences for taxpayers become uncertain and complicated and can easily lead to double taxation without significant effort and knowledge from taxpayers themselves to achieve the opposite. There are, for example: no summary of the tax rules of each country or the number of foreign pensioners in the countries concerned who receive social security benefits or other pensions and who are at the same time considered to be tax emigrated. Then it's hard to fix these or calculate the effects. Norwegian pensioners in other Nordic countries will have to deal with two countries and come into a more complex and unclear tax position than today. This concerns a significant number of pensioners. There are more than 100 recognised UN States with which Norway does not have a tax agreement and where the taxpayer himself, based on the domestic law of that country, must take the necessary steps to avoid double taxation. It is also the case that all pensioners who currently pay taxes on the pension to the country of residence will be subject to double taxation until the pensioner himself succeeds in getting the tax bureaucracy in the country of residence to prevent double taxation. This confirms the general premise of the proposition, namely that the pensioner himself has to take up his tax relationship with the tax authorities in every case in order to avert double taxation. It is already inconspicuous in this area. It will get worse and can hit many new ones. A central theme for pensioners living abroad — formerly exempt from Norwegian taxation — is also whether to have social rights when applying withholding taxes. There is no information that there has been or will be assessments of this, which is a relatively central theme of the individual’s economy. So I would like to mention that the possibility of transitional arrangements has not been explored either. In the proposition – in the mention of the Danish scheme – it is not stated whether it involves a system whereby those who moved out before the introduction of the withholding tax are exempted while living outside. If transitional arrangements were considered, measures could also be considered as close possible tax gaps in individual countries for pensioners, because they exist, but to a relatively small extent. It would probably be easier than bringing all the pensioners into the wild that is now receding. In my opinion, it has been demonstrated by some of the answers that have come, that the source tax we have affected differently, it will be unforeseeable, depending on the country of residence and the tax agreement. Norway has a tax agreement with many countries, but that is approx. 20 different solutions to handling pensions between countries. Well, there's a lot of different ways to think about it. I can illustrate by quoting an answer to a question to the ministry about the situation when a pensioner moves to a country where one is considered to be a resident relatively quickly, i.e. in the same way as in Norway, after 183 days, while Norway continues to practise its four-year rule when one is counted out. The answer is as follows: ‘It follows from the tax payers’ obligation to explain their own circumstances that when tax payers make a declaration in each country, they have to take a position on the country in which they intend to reside and document it. If the country of residence and the country of origin do not achieve the same result through the equation treatment, the taxpayer may refer the matter to the competent authority of the country of residence. The competent authority under the tax agreements will, if necessary, refer the matter to the competent authorities of the other country in order for them to reach a common understanding.» With this manual, many want to go home for simplified self-declaration, no matter how hot it may be in the weather. I think it is important to be aware that it is the practical implementation of the proposal that we believe is too little mentioned and investigated. Of course, there is a strong political consensus that there should be the greatest possible degree of justice in the tax system. This does not always apply in relation to how much the different groups are going to pay. We've discussed that a lot. But this is not the case here, it concerns justice and predictability, and not least the ability to achieve a fair and correct equation of its own income when dealing with it in relation to two or more countries' tax bureaucracies at the same time. The work on this matter has at least shown to the undersigned that it is very uncertain whether this fairness is adequately safeguarded. The single examples are many – the fundamental concerns as well. Then it's my opinion that we're giving a relatively large group of taxpayers, with relatively small resources, too cumbersome treatment in our tax system. That's what this is about, not that you want to exempt someone from taxation or give some special tax relief. Tax on ability has been a central topic in the debate this morning. It's not just about the ability to pay taxes, it's also about the ability to deal with your tax situation without having financial consequences for yourself. The right is always going to think that it's a personal responsibility for taxpayers to take care of their own economy too, but it's conditional on the systems being arranged to take that responsibility. It is my opinion that this is not the case. That is why I am addressing the proposal we are making in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e596	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e601	I must say I am surprised at the lack of a principle approach that the Right shows in this matter. Well, notice, I disagree with the Right in some things, I agree with other things, but I'm used to them being a little bit more principleal than what you can read out of the notes. Christian People's Party e.g. supports, in principle, the introduction of withholding taxes; it does not do so on the right. In particular, the Right is consistent with working for tax relief, as we have heard in the debate before today. In particular, tax relief for those with low income has been much mentioned. Therefore, I wonder: why are you going against the introduction of withholding taxes? There are many minimum pensioners, among others. in the EEA territory, which, by virtue of the tax restriction rule, will experience a lower tax rate on the introduction of withholding taxes, and yet you are moving towards it. Why do you choose such a position?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e606	I find it difficult to accept – I have to say – the charge of not being principled when the representative Aasen picks out individual groups that come out well or badly. It hasn't been my moustache or my errand here. Our primary attitude to this is that for the pensioners groups as a whole, there is too much uncertainty, too poor investigation. I am fully aware that someone will get out better, but so is the fact that someone is at risk of getting out worse, and then it is not arranged for it to be an automatic one in this tax – much is left to the taxpayers themselves. With the system we have, there are already a number of examples that many come in a situation of double taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e611	Does the representative Fleet believe that today's system is more predictable and tidy for the pensioners than what we are about to introduce?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e616	No, I don't mean that. But I do not think that we should replace a system that is too weak, which we know is lacking, with another that we are quite sure in advance will be the city of new shortcomings, because the existing system of the shortcomings it has, despite all the people, have adapted over time, and now I am not talking about adjusting to pay the minimum possible tax, but simply that they have got the practical things fixed in relation to the authorities they are going to deal with. That's why it's our clear warning that this should not be done until you've looked at a number of different situations that the pensioners come up with. It's absolutely certain that it will be that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e621	The proposal on withholding taxes has been a repetition for several years now. It has been investigated, it has been consulted, it has been for thorough committee examination, and nevertheless Right wants to send it back with the reason that it is too poorly investigated. What in the world is it that suggests that the Right should really go into a tax settlement where someone who does not pay taxes is going to pay taxes in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e626	That's two things. That withholding taxes have been a repetition in Stortinget, is not correct. I have been in the Stortingen Finance Committee for two periods and have not seen the withholding tax before. Nor is it the case that with our return proposal we want to protect some tax groups. On the contrary, we say in the position that transitional arrangements should be looked at, and at the same time the transitional arrangements should be considered whether there were obvious tax gaps that could be closed in other ways. We are fully aware that they exist, but as I said in my post, it concerns very small amounts. And then you don't have to pour the baby out with the bath water, because here it's talking about 40,000 people, of whom maybe only a few go free. So then we have to have arrangements that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e633	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e637	In previous debates today, the global financial crisis has been the topic. The issue we have just dealt with shows that Norway needs to solve problems we now have in the financial market because of conditions that have arisen in other countries but that have infected us. The government budget of the United States, which will be presented soon, and the necessary clearing up in the banking and financial sector they are now facing, may prove to be more important for the Norwegian economy in the long term than what we adopt in this Chamber. So we're more dependent on each other and more vulnerable across borders than ever. But also in other ways, we become global. We travel more, and we work and live in other countries for shorter or longer periods. Emigration has driven the Nordics for hundreds of years. Of course, most famous are all those who went to America in the 1800s and early 1900s. They left poverty and hope for a future in a new country, and many of them also got a good life there. No one had any pension to take with them on the removal drawer. Today's migrants who have the right to a pension can take it with them wherever they want to live. Until now, we have had an inconsistent tax system around this. With today's amendment of the law, a new system will be established. This is called withholding taxes and is about people paying taxes to the country from which the income comes. Source taxes on pensions mean that pensions from Norway sent to people who have moved permanently out of the country are taxed here. The tax at source will be 15 p.m., and a tax at source of 15 p.m. is initially not unreasonably hard and is lower than that of many other countries. This means, among other things: that no one can avoid taxation by moving to a selected country and not paying taxes either to the country in which you live or to Norway — fully legally because of loopholes. We also want to avoid people paying taxes twice for the same source of income. Source taxes facilitate a fair distribution of tax bases between different countries through tax agreements. This will also ensure that the Norwegian tax foundation is not eroded and will help to prevent tax adaptations in a constantly internationalised labour market. There are few good reasons why a person who chooses to move from a country with a high level of income and expense should be exempted from the pension income. In principle, therefore, this amendment to the tax law is important. Moreover, in many cases the amendments to the rules on withholding taxes will not affect the tax payable by individual pensioners. This is a clean-up that is necessary when more and more people bring with them acquired rights and settle in other countries. The case has created a certain commitment among some pensioners living abroad. Much of the turmoil we've seen is due to misunderstandings. I don't think there's any reason to blame anyone for that, because this is difficult information that is not as easy to get at for everyone. Nevertheless, I will not underestimate the fact that there is, in fact, political disagreement in this matter as well. The pensioners who live abroad and who do not pay taxes to Norway or to their new home country want to continue, of course, but we believe that this is wrong. Pensions are largely financed by government through government grants to public funds and through pension savings and pension payments income deductions. It is a good principle that income financed by the Norwegian community is taxed even when the recipient has moved out of the country. This will make equal treatment clearer compared to Norwegian pensioners, who pay taxes on their pensions in Norway. Who is then affected by this proposal? Figures from 2007 show that there were nearly 43 000 pensioners abroad who received a pension from Nav. All of these are not tax resident abroad, but the figures give a clue as to how many will be affected. The beneficiaries of pensions include Nordics who have emigrated to another country, but there are also many beneficiaries who are non-residents who have worked in Norway for a period of their professional career, for example. with oil extraction on Norwegian continental shelf. An example is an American citizen who has worked in Norway for five years and who receives part of his pension paid by the Norwegian State. The US citizen will then pay part of his tax to Norway when withholding taxes on pensions are introduced. About three-quarters of these pension payments go to the EEA territory. No pensioners who come under the tax restriction rule will be tax-enforcement if they live in an EEA country. On the contrary, they will receive tax relief. Minimum pensioners of low wealth who have the most significant income from Norway will not pay income taxes or social security contributions. Until now, minimum pensioners, who have lived in the EEA territory, have paid a large amount of social security contributions. The introduction of withholding taxes on pensions for this group of pensioners means greater equal treatment with pensioners residing in Norway. So this means they're going to pay less than they pay today. Norwegian pensioners abroad live largely in countries with which Norway has a tax agreement. If the country in which the pensioner lives taxes the pension, it is obliged under the tax agreement to deduct its tax on the Norwegian withholding tax. If the country of residence does not tax the pension or tax it too low, the introduction of withholding taxes on pensions would mean the taxation of previously tax-free income. This is an intentional taxation that contributes to the achievement of one of the objectives of the proposal, namely that a person should not be able to emigrate away from the Norwegian level of taxation on pensions from Norway. The imposition of withholding taxes on pensions does not lead to a significant amount of double taxation. There are different rules on taxation according to which agreements Norway has with the different countries of residence. There are three main groups that I want to explain here. One is that some tax agreements give Norway the right to impose withholding taxes on pensions, for example: this applies to Sweden. Here, double taxation will be prevented by Sweden exempting the pension from taxing or deducting the Norwegian tax when taxing the pension. Another example where Norway has the possibility to impose withholding taxes under tax agreements is France. The second is when we have a tax agreement that says that only the pensioner is now resident, who can tax the pension. In that case, Norway will not levy withholding taxes. Norway's tax agreement with, inter alia, Spain, Thailand and Pakistan are designed in this way, ergo will not tax pensioners living there from Norway. Of course, tax collectors have to document where they live. The third is if Norway does not have a tax agreement with the pensioner’s country of residence – it is these 100 that the representative Fleet has previously referred to. States will not be obliged to prevent double taxation. The usual thing, then, is that the country of residence prevents this double taxation. It is important to remember that out of the number we have, it turns out that in 2007 there were only 346 people living in countries without tax agreements with Norway. The opposition claims that more investigation is needed. It is a bit funny, given that the proposal has been subjected to extensive preparation and investigation, including during the previous government, and not least in view of the relatively few taxpayers who are subject to changes in tax on this proposal. The case has been mentioned in each State budget since 2004. The issue has been explored in the OECD, and the proposal has been sent to a broad consultation – a comprehensive consultation note. A wide range of organisations took part in the consultation and feedback was consistently positive. Among these, the Tax payers' Association and the Pensioners' Association were more than 170,000 members. The negative opinions came from two organisations, the Senior Case and FinnSpain, the Tax and Economics. Following the end of the consultation round, the case was re-examined in its own odelstation proposal, where several changes were made to take account of the recordings at the hearing. The survey's own treatment has also included consultation where we have visited interested organisations, who have confirmed again that most people are positive about this. Against this background, I think it is more important that Norway should give priority to making good tax agreements with more countries than to continuing to investigate what we have already done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e684	The representative Aasen points out that in theory there are some pensioners who can get better out of introducing a source tax. I think it's supposed that a person gets renegotiated tax agreements, so Norway gets an exclusive right to tax, and that the country where the pensioner lives does not get the right to tax. Then my first question is: what is the reason why the representative Aasen believes that, for example. Spain will accept that they will not be entitled to tax people living in Spain, but that Norway will have the exclusive right? Isn't it also a reasonable and correct principle that a paying tax to the country of a cage, to that country where a new one also benefits from the public services?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e691	Pensioners living in other EEA countries who have their income from Norway, when we introduce this new law on withholding taxes, which we will adopt today, will have the opportunity to claim the same according to the tax laws in Norway. They will therefore not receive any more stringent taxation than pensioners who live in Norway, and I also believe it is the right principle to tax the country from which they receive their income. It is possible to live in Spain and make money in Spain and have pensions from Norway, and then tax the two different countries. So that's what you can demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e696	The representative of the Aasen takes here the Tax Payer's Association for Income for His View. It is important to be aware that the tax payers’ association’s assumption was that the possibility of double taxation should be eliminated, and that no one would pay more tax than one would have done in Norway if one lived there. The representative of Aasen began his speech by saying that much of the resistance – I don't know if she meant from us or from the retirement groups – is based on misunderstandings. I believe that I have spent a relatively large amount of time getting involved in this matter. It's complicated, and what's the point, is that those who are anxious about this, of course, have seen that they themselves have to take responsibility for not being double-taxed. It is quite clear from the answers given by the ministry. Does the representative of Aasen think that even getting trouble with bureaucracy, and having to do it yourself, is a misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e703	I believe that if you choose to move to another country, you need to use different assessments to inform yourself in a housing market, in a possible labour market, about rights, about that country's services in the public and private sectors, and about security – that is, many aspects that are important for living in a good society. If you choose to move to another country, you will have to take responsibility for assessing whether it is appropriate. If you choose to move to a country where it is unclear where it is difficult to assert your rights to the country in which you live, where there are unsafe social conditions, you will find that in Norway there are many things you take for granted, including: a good level of public service, which is not included in the purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e708	I then interpret the answer from the representative of Aasen so that when you introduce this new system, you don't want to make any special arrangements for pensioners who live abroad. That's what Aasen says. Then you have to take into account where you're coming from. I agree with that in itself, but I believe that a tax system introduced by the Norwegian State should take some account of the fact that it should be practical for taxpayers. Do I then understand the representative of Aasen that she doesn't care about, that the tax collectors are to be thrown into deep water? Is it true that they are doing the best they can under changing social conditions and the tax system they are applying?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e713	Then the representative draws the fleet's wrong ends. I believe it is important that the Norwegian tax authorities take into account and provide good service to Norwegian taxpayers. This is why a separate department is also set up in the Tax Agency – Tax North – to deal with these issues. But the Norwegian authorities cannot take responsibility for everyone, for how the tax authorities act, and for what kind of rules they have in all other countries around the world. When this is about approx. 350 people who live in countries with which we do not have a tax agreement and who are not in the EEA territory, in my opinion, there is a limited problem compared to the big gain this will be. We get a much more predictable and fairer system than we have today, and then the Norwegian state has to work what it can to get as many tax agreements as it can get into port. But it doesn't just depend on us, it depends on other countries and their goodwill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e718	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e721	In this case, the majority of the Committee on Finance, as the rapporteur has also done well, proposes to introduce so-called source taxes on pensions. So everyone who lives abroad and receives a pension from Norway is also going to pay taxes to Norway. This will happen despite the fact that today's pension lists are usually also taxed in the country in which they live, and have the right to publicly funded goods and services. Many Norwegian pensioners abroad are concerned about this matter. They're worried about this case, and disfellowshipping that one has misunderstood is too easy. There are many pitfalls in this case and many problem settings that can affect pensioners abroad. The government hopes that by introducing a source tax, one will be able to collect 230 million. SEK in additional taxes for the year 2010. This is to be financed by the fact that Norwegian pensioners abroad have to pay more in taxes, or that the country they live in, and are therefore to provide public benefits and services to these pensioners, receive less tax, possibly a combination of this: increasing the tax on the individual pensioner, and that the country in which he or she lives receives less tax revenue to finance public benefits for those who receive such services there. As the spokesperson for the matter was concerned, this bill asks for a very poor distribution. It contains what is at best inaccuracies in several areas. For example, a note from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on page 2 of the proposal may: ‘In addition, non-resident pensioners will often continue to make use of or claim publicly funded goods and services, both during holiday stays and visits at home. It is therefore not unreasonable for this group to also contribute to the Community's expenditure.» The fact that this claim is the property of the wrong image is clear. In Regulation No. 85 to the People's Security Act, it is quite clear that displaced pensioners do not comply with the People's Security Act without paying for it by drawing 9.1 pst. social security contributions from the pension by drawing so-called voluntary membership of the population. We also have the example of former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. She finally had to pay for the hip operations that were carried out in Norway, while she offered in France and was a null tax collector there. The question that is unclear is whether it is supposed to pay 9.1 pst. in addition to a source tax, in order to claim these services. It could be good to get ready. The proposal to introduce source taxes on pensions is both unfair, unfair and unsocial. The proposal is unsocial because it will affect many reumatists, pensioners, and underprivileged people with small pensions who have moved abroad because of climate and health. To introduce source taxes for the many displaced reumatists and underprivileged people who save the Norwegian State for annual medical expenses that may often exceed DKK 100000 per year. years, are probably both unfair and unfair. It becomes even more unsocial when one thinks that in its time this human being decided to leave his world because of the health and according to the intentions that existed then. Now the source tax comes and hits the legs under the framework conditions that in its time were the basis of the great decision to move to a country with a better climate. The distribution contains so many weaknesses and so much injustice that it is difficult for the Storting to see the full consequences of the law decision to be taken today. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has not made any less confusion by giving the following statement in an article in the Evening Post on 19 December 2007: ‘This is only good news for the pensioners [[...]] The husband of the Christmas presang shall a long look for! I think a lot of pensioners could have thought of a slightly different Christmas premise from the Minister of Finance than a source tax. The fact that this Christmas greeting has nothing to do with reality can easily be demonstrated by reading the answer from the Minister of Finance to questions from the Progress Party about what the increase could be, in the worst case, for Norwegian pensioners abroad. Here the Minister of Finance answers that some pensioners can increase the tax by up to 15 percentage points. The number of pensioners who receive an increase in taxes due to this decision is, among other things, depending on the renegotiation of the tax agreements. However, as I was also concerned with my question to the representative of Aasen, there is no reason to believe that the renegotiation of tax agreements that are based on the fact that only Norway will be allowed to tax would be particularly easy to get through. I think it would be difficult to renegotiate a tax agreement, for example. with Spain, if one assumes such a principle. Whatever this is, it's going to be wrong in a lot of ways. Many pensioners receive well-being from the country they live in. Then I thought it was petty that Norway, one of the richest countries in the world, should prevent these countries from financing their well-being by taxing Norwegian pensioners who live there. Double taxation is of course also a real problem. Then it's a little too easy to say that it's just contacting the tax authorities in that country a cage. For example: living in Thailand, I have understood it so that all complaints must be brought up with the tax authorities in Bangkok. That means that if a cage in Phuket, then one has to contact the tax authorities in Bangkok if one is subject to double taxation. In Bangkok's tax office, they don't speak Norwegian. They don't speak English, so you have to have an interpreter with them. If you're not very good at the tax code, you have to bring a lawyer with you. So one has to involve both interpreter and lawyer, and one has to take the trip to Bangkok. If a pensioner is 79 years old, younger or older, and has no special knowledge of tax laws, it goes without saying that this is not a simple challenge. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland probably wanted to deal with it. There are probably a lot of people in this room who will also be able to deal with it when they become pensioners, but there are other pensioners who are not so well-incorporated in the legislation, who will have a bigger problem in starting a war against foreign tax authorities. Our starting point and our perception are therefore that this bill is both deficient and unclear and will put many pensioners in a difficult situation. The case-speaker has re-applied the proposal to send it back to the Government for a re-examination. I also want to make it clear right now that if that proposal falls, the Progress Party will vote against the whole law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e769	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e772	Minimum pensioners who have resided in EEA countries will now receive a lower tax, regardless of whether they have a tax contract, because they will henceforth not pay social security contributions, which they pay today. Does the representative Gjermund Hagesett agree with that description? Why is the Progress Party against that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e777	The problem is that this proposal is very incomprehensible, and it's hard to see all the consequences of it. I think it's possible that one in theory might be right that there might be someone who might come out better. I doubt it very much. In any case, there are some pitfalls here that go on with double taxation, and it's a fact that it's hard enough to fight with Norwegian tax authorities if you're not going to be abroad and fight with the government powers, where one might be forced to use an interpreter, to use a lawyer and get involved in another law. Therefore, the vast majority of pensioners will come out worse because of this law decision, and that's sin. It may also mean – and we have a hearing – that there are pensioners who will have to move back to Norway for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e782	The pensioners living in the EEA territory subject to the withholding tax changes are three-quarters of all pensioners living in the EEA territory. The Party's representative and the Right-wing Representative have now stated several times that those affected are poor in resources and have very low incomes. How can the representative Hagesetter claim that there are a few who get lower taxes when those who live in the EEA area do not pay social security contributions – i.e. three-quarters of all 40 000? How can the representative Hagesetter say that there are only a few?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e787	I find that the organizations of interest in the outsourced pension list are very critical. They've been listening and they're very negative to this bill. I think there's reason to fear that one might be exposed to double taxation, and that one might come out worse. Anyway, there's a proceeds of 230 million. kr for 2010 to come from somewhere. Either the Government and the Ministry of Finance have to tax the pensioners harder, or one is in the situation that the countries to which they currently tax are going to get less. Both parts are wrong, because I think that as one of the world's richest countries, we should accept that the countries where our pensioners live also have the right to tax them a little to finance the welfare benefits of which these pensioners enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e794	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, himself believed that Gro Harlem Brundtland had been in a situation where she did not pay taxes. The consequence of the Progress Party's policy would still be that Gro Harlem Brundtland would have avoided paying taxes if she had lived there. Is it the policy of the Progress Party that Gro Harlem Brundtland and people in similar pension positions should not pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e799	This question from the representative of Klungland confirms to some extent the suspicion I have had that the reason one introduces this source tax is Gro Harlem Brundtland. So one has become so annoyed that she doesn't pay taxes and has moved to France that one has to take her and all the others who are in similar situations. As far as I know, Gro Harlem Brundtland has moved back to Norway. But in any case, there are other, simpler ways to get people in the same situation as Gro Harlem Brundtland to pay taxes, and it's simply to renegotiate the tax agreement with France, so that one gets to cover it, so close the hole that makes pensioners with very good income – 700,000 kroner would well have Gro Harlem Brundtland – let go of paying taxes at all, as she did at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e804	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e807	Today we introduce what is going to become later known as the Gro Act, or Lex Gro, precisely because we care, on the basis of exactly what Gjermund Hageseter was in his post, that people moving out of the country to land where they would not otherwise be taxed, now get a source tax on their pensions. And here, in fact, I believe that what we are at stake with most people, and not the Progress Party. So with the policies of the Progress Party, it would have been zero taxes for people like Gro, when they live elsewhere. We provide justice, and I actually think Gro Harlem Brundtland is very happy about that. People moving out also have to pay taxes. We're busy having a tax system that's not hollowed out. Then we have to close the gaps that exist, precisely because we're busy with a good welfare state that's also going to provide pensions for everyone. We believe that the withholding tax that we have now investigated and implemented is much better determined than what the opposition feels. So this is something we've been doing for years. We've had this at the hearing, we've had hearings, we've made changes to the law we've set up in view of just the hearings we've received, and it's supported by a lot of the pensioners' associations, even though some of the pensioners' associations don't support this. That people know that there is no great discrimination, that we provide for less discrimination between people living here and people moving out, I think most people actually think of it as a good thing. Yes, we who are in position, we who are the majority parties, we are actually annoyed that people who benefit from the good pension schemes we have in Norway do not contribute to the community. And then we think that a source tax is fair and good to introduce. Gærmund Hagesetter has previously been out saying that tax havens are fantastic; we should preferably have the most of them, because it will provide the lowest possible tax and pressure to lower taxes in Norway. I note that in this context, too, the Progress Party wants us to have the greatest possible pressure to provide for lower taxes in Norway – by being against the withholding tax that we are now introducing. We spend a whole year introducing this withholding tax. We will implement this from 1 January 2010, precisely to ensure that people are given good information, good time to change and good time to prepare – both in relation to the country where they live and in relation to Norway – for the new tax, which, in our view, contributes to more justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e821	The representative Holmås claims that this law will contribute to more justice. I guess it's a little bit of an eye thing that looks. Those who are subject to double taxation will not experience this as being fairer. Thus, the countries where Norwegian pensioners benefit from infrastructure, public goods and welfare services are not allowed to tax Norwegian pensioners. Now it's 230 million. in 2010 in the first place, but when renegotiation of tax agreements takes place, inter alia. with Spain, this is likely to increase substantially. I don't know how much I'm going to get, but it's going to be a lot more. Then my question to the representative Holmås is that it is reasonable and fair for us to withdraw money from other countries – Spain, for example. - and withdraw them again to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e829	I notice that the representative Gjermund Hagesetter is a lot more concerned with Norwegian assistance to Spain than with Norwegian assistance to all other countries in the world that have a lot more need for this than Spain. I think that's interesting. I believe that there is more justice to a withholding tax scheme, which ensures that we actually get a tax on the pension income that goes out. Many of the countries at risk of double taxation are countries with significantly lower cost levels than those in Norway. This money will essentially come very, very well and be the money you live for when you take the pension to other countries, which does not make people get anything bad out of it. As long as one has the option of choosing to be taxed in Norway according to Norwegian principles, Norwegian rules, I believe that for many of these people, people living in the EEA territory, there is something we must consider to be a decent level of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e836	There are superficial justice considerations the representative Holmås now presenting. He'll be aware that the average income for the people he's talking about is NOK 85 000. Actually, we're at Holmås' home for people. We are not talking about hunting for rich people, as it sounds at Heikki Holmås. What's the problem here is that a lot of people feel a lot of uncertainty. Then it may well be that someone comes out better – someone will – and someone will come out worse, but the main thing, and what has been our concern, is – and the department has been ready in the answers – that they themselves have to take action to avert their double taxation. Its uncertainty lies in the injustice of the tax that would otherwise have been applied in Norway and in the systems that would have been used. Nothing has been said about how this is to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e843	This is one of the reasons why we spend a whole year implementing this. The vast majority of those who live abroad and who are concerned about this issue — three quarters — live in the EEA area, as I said, and I believe that the problem is much simpler than in other countries. So it'll be completely possible for people to make sure that they get the necessary information. We're going to spend a year implementing this, and as we know, we're also going to have the whole of 2010 to solve the different issues for the individual taxpayer who lives abroad. Information will be provided, and people living abroad who live in countries with which Norway does not have a tax agreement will be in contact with the home country, which is Norway, and will be able to contact the tax authorities to find out. I think the people who live abroad have enough resources to figure this out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e852	I think it is nice that the representative Holmås has now turned himself down a bit in relation to what the debate really applies. If it is that he intends to influence what can be done to help taxpayers, rather than to present this as a search for tax refugees, you are at least a bit on the way. That's what this is about, and I think we have to get there. If not, the Government will encounter major problems when making the details. A lot of information is needed here. There's a lot of information about what's fair, so people know what to do. I understand that Holmås is a bit on the way. I'm glad. He'll have to comment on it if he wants to, that's pretty much not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e861	I can just say that I believe that this is a necessary and fair thing to do. Everyone who remembers the somewhat heated debate around the situation when Gro Harlem Brundtland was out, and it turned out that she paid nothing in taxes of the pension she received, remembers that there was something that brought people from both the right and the left on the track to say that here we have to close a tax hole. To close tax gaps is something our government has tried to do all the time while we've been sitting, and we believe that ensuring that people pay taxes when they get Norwegian pensions is something that contributes to more justice for Norwegian citizens, both for those who live in Norway, and for those who live outside. So it's quite obvious that the reason why we're spending a year implementing this and, in addition, the whole of 2010 to get things in place is that we're going to ensure the best possible and as smooth as possible implementation of the introduction of withholding taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e873	The case concerns changes in the tax law — withholding taxes on pensions. Source taxes are taxes payable by a person to the country from which the income comes. Source taxes on pensions mean that pensions from Norway sent to people who have moved permanently out of the country are taxed in Norway. Source taxes on pensions shall only include income which is taxable while a person lives in Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: basic and supplementary pensions from social security, public occupational pensions from the State Pension Fund, KLP e.l. and private occupational pensions. Pensions are largely financed by government through government grants to public funds and through pension savings and pension payments income deductions. It is a good principle that income financed by the Norwegian community is taxed even when the recipient has moved out of the country. This will make equal treatment clearer compared to Norwegian pensioners who pay taxes on their pension here in the country. In some countries where beneficiaries of Norwegian pensions are resident, tax agreements with Norway have chosen to give Norway the right to tax pensions coming from Norway. As long as we do not exercise this right, as is the case today, a tax gap arises in which pensions are taxed neither in Norway nor in the state of residence of pensioners. The imposition of withholding taxes will remove this kind of unreasonable deduction, which gives NOK 0 in tax. Figures from 2007 show that there were nearly 43 000 pensioners who received a pension from Nav abroad. All of these are not tax resident abroad, but the figures give a clue as to how many can be affected. As mentioned above, about three-quarters of these pension payments go to the EEA territory. Source tax is set to 15 pst. of the pension. In the case of minimum pensioners with low wealth, who have the most significant income from Norway, they will pay neither income taxes nor social security contributions. Until now, minimum pensioners have lived within the EEA to a large extent paid social security contributions. The introduction of withholding taxes on pensions for this group of pensioners means greater equal treatment with pensioners residing in Norway. So that means they're going to pay less than they pay today. With regard to the introduction of withholding taxes on pensions, pensioners outside the EEA are now taxed harder, this is the case. For if the country of residence does not tax the pension or tax it low, the imposition of withholding taxes on pensions would mean the taxation of previously tax-free income. This is therefore an intentional taxation, which contributes to the achievement of one of the objectives of the proposal, that a person should not be able to emigrate away from the Norwegian level of taxation on pensions from Norway. In the case of tax agreements in which Norway is not entitled to taxation of pensions, the circumstances are such that only the pensioner is now resident and can tax the pension. In that case, Norway will not levy withholding taxes. Norway's tax agreements with, inter alia, Spain, Thailand and Pakistan are designed in this way, ergo will not tax pensioners living there. Tax collectors must normally document where they reside. It is becoming quite central in the future that a renegotiation of tax agreements will bring about such a change that Norway is given the right to impose withholding taxes on those countries, Spain, Thailand and Pakistan as well. In conclusion, why withholding tax? There is a reasonable distribution of tax bases between different countries through tax agreements, it is in order to prevent the eroding of the Norwegian tax base, and there are few good reasons why a person who chooses to move from a country with a high level of income and expense should have tax exemptions from pension income. It is mentioned from the Progress Party that the proposal of the Government is unfair, unfair and unsocial. No, the proposal is fair, fair and social.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e897	Now, not only Norwegian pensioners are moving abroad. There are also foreign pensioners who move to Norway and bused themselves here, for various reasons. Then my question is: if, for example: A US or Canadian pensioner who has a US or Canada pension moves to Norway and accepts welfare services in Norway, health services, and benefits from the infrastructure and the good that are in Norway, does the representative Lundteg mean that it is natural that the taxes on Norway's pension? Or does the representative Lundtigen think that it is natural and fair and fair and reasonable that related taxes to the U.S. or Canada of their pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e902	The answer to that is from the tax agreement that we have with the United States or Canada, respectively. The tax agreements, as provided for by Norway, shall ensure that there is no double taxation, and that is the guiding principle. But it's the tax agreements that clarify the payment of taxes, so and so many percent, to one country and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e907	In this case, I have been concerned with the taxpayers and how they should deal with a changed system. Now the representative Lundtigen, as well as formerly the representative Aasen, talks about the pensioners in the EEA area, that they are coming out well, and that it should be unproblematic. I don't think so much about the amounts, because they're a little different depending on where you live. What is my main concern is this: has the representative Lundtägen understood that, after this has been implemented, and has been introduced withholding tax on Norwegian pensions, pensioners living in the EEA area will be able to avoid double taxation without having to avoid it? Is that his understanding of the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e913	The answer is yes. The equality authorities in Norway have a clear obligation to ensure that taxpayers pay proper taxes. This means that, in some cases, when tax authorities review the notification of the seas, one will pay less tax, in other cases more tax. Similarly, I assume that the Norwegian authorities, as far as they have the right to do so, will try to realise also through tax agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e918	The representative, Lundtigen, mentions that one should renegotiate the tax agreements with Spain, Thailand and Pakistan, so that Norway was given the exclusive right to tax the pensioners who receive pensions from Norway and who live in those countries. Then my question is: will the representative Lundtägen and the Government also take the initiative to renegotiate the tax agreement between Norway and the United States, so that American pensioners who move to Norway and who live in Norway, who accept welfare services and health services in Norway, who use the infrastructure in Norway, can be fully taxed in the United States and not in Norway? If there is a logic in what the representative Lundteg says, this must apply both ways, both where it is an advantage to Norway and where it is a disadvantage to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e923	What I said, after the representative's assessment, about Spain, Thailand and Pakistan, that we were going to have an exclusive right, is not comprehensive. One shall have the same right there as one has in the other agreements. As far as the United States is concerned, I do not have an overview of the tax agreement that exists between Norway and the United States, but the principle must be as stated by the representative Hagesetter, that it works in the same logical way with the United States as with other countries. It must be a uniform principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e930	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e933	We have a case of withholding tax, which has been mentioned in documents to the Stortinget since 2004, which has been at wide consultation in 100 organisations, supported by the large pensioner organisation, the Pensioners Association, which is supported by the Tax Payer Association, but which the opposition describes in such a way that it can, of course, disturb pensioners. Let me then assume what this matter is about. This case is about the justice of pensioners. It's about approx. 43 000 pensioners living outside Norway, but there will be a slightly different outcome from where they live and what kind of tax agreements apply. Let me take the EEA area first. Today, if you are a retired person from Norway living in an EEA country, you have to pay social security contributions, including minimum pensioners. The introduction of withholding taxes means that minimum pensioners are given the opportunity to apply the tax limitation rule, even if they live in another EEA country, and thus do not pay social security contributions. Thus, for minimum pensioners in the EEA territory, these rules will mean a tax relief. That's what the opposition says no when they believe this should be sent back. Then, with some countries, and in the EEA area it is primarily Spain, we have a tax agreement that does not allow withholding taxes. This means that Norwegian pensioners in Spain have to be taxed in Spain. If we are to change that, the Storting must first agree that we are going to change it, and then Spain and Norway must agree that it is going to change that. Although we can assume that it is in principle right to pay withholding taxes on pensions – I agree – some of the countries that have many foreign pensioners living with them may have a different view of this. At least no pensioners living in Spain are currently affected by this decision. The same applies to pensioners in Pakistan and Thailand. If that's how we're going to change the tax agreements that we don't have the opportunity to tax at source today, they must be renegotiated, and the Storting must be involved. So there's no need to bother any pensioners in Spain, some pensioners in Pakistan or some pensioners in Thailand. If we don't adopt this withholding tax model, it means that the pensioners who live in France, where we have the opportunity to charge with withholding tax, but where we haven't taken advantage of the possibility to do so, will still be zero taxpayers. That's the problem Gro Harlem Brundtland came up in, because she wants to pay taxes to Norway. And there are many other wealthy pensioners living in France who – I don't know if they want to – should pay taxes to Norway. So the opposition is in favour of point 1: Minimum pensioners living in the EEA territory are still required to pay social security contributions and are not subject to the tax restriction rule. Point two: Gro must still be a null valuer. I am delighted to see this election banner from the Advance Party and the Right in the election campaign: zero tax to Gro! So let's do that, for example. Sweden. It is that Swedish pensioners who live in Norway pay taxes to Sweden, because Sweden has withholding taxes. Norwegian pensioners living in Sweden also pay taxes to Sweden. The arrangement we have today, with a tax agreement with Sweden, is a gift from Norway to Sweden. The only change for Norwegian pensioners living in Sweden is that they have to pay their taxes to Norway and not continue to Sweden. I think that is a reasonable exchange arrangement. There is no need to disturb pensioners in this respect. Outside the EEA, it is voluntary to pay social security contributions. A voluntary social security fee is paid if you want to have full rights in relation to the Norwegian health service. It's a fair deal. But those who are then affected by the withholding tax will receive this additional social security tax less the withholding tax. So the starting point is that you pay 9 pst. Social security contributions, and you are left with the low rate of 3 pst. plus the withholding tax — but also with goods in Norway that you would not have otherwise. The source tax is not what makes you have to go to a foreign tax office, because the withholding tax is about paying taxes to Norway. I expect that the pensioners who are now initially paying taxes to the country in which they live are well aware of the tax system in the country in which they live. So if that were the way we were going to renegotiate the tax agreement with Thailand and introduce withholding tax in Thailand – I say if, because it's only if the Stortinget wants, and if Thailand wants – I would expect the pensioners who already live in Thailand, who are going to pay taxes under Thai rules, to have already been in Bangkok and explained the state of things. For they will certainly do the right and the difference and pay their taxes, at least what they have the obligation to do. I have to say that there has been an incredible conspiracy of claims from the opposition about what these changes are. I think it's a bad thing to worry about older people this way. This would mean implementing a principle of fairness. The reason why the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association supports this must be that they see that it is reasonable that pensioners living abroad who can use all the goods in Norway if they pay social security contributions, and all the goods other than those financed by popular security, if they do not, should also pay taxes. I think many other pensioners in Norway are responding to tax refugees, and they are at least responding – I am absolutely sure – to the fact that wealthy pensioners like Gro are not allowed to pay taxes when they live in France. At least I've had an enormous amount of reactions to it. Fortunately, we have tax agreements with the vast majority of people living in Norwegian pensioners, but not everywhere. We have found that there are 346 pensioners living in countries with which we do not have a tax agreement. This could be done, for example, by: be the Seychelles or Angola or elsewhere. There may be a problem of double taxation, but it is also for these 346 pensioners that, at the starting point, the country in which they live should take responsibility for not double taxation. I wish that the opposition as this case progresses, understands that they have a rather bad case. So it's not a blow to minimum pensioners living in the EEA area to say that you still have to pay social security contributions, we are strongly opposed to this proposal, which will mean that the minimum pensioners in the EEA territory will come under the tax limitation rule and thus not pay taxes, and we are still for high-wage pensioners in France to be zero-taxers. I don't think I'm going. But of course, pensioners are worried about changes in the rules. Pensioners also have plenty of time to worry about new rules that can come, and worry. So there's no reason why the opposition should help them to worry more than is necessary. This case is not the case for which Norwegian pensioners living abroad should be concerned. The principles behind it are fair. The way we implement them is fair. That is a good thing for minimum pensioners in the EEA territory. This means that pensioners in some other countries have to pay taxes to Norway, and it is only fair and fair and will close some important tax gaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e963	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e966	If the goal was to get Gro Harlem Brundtland and all other pensioners living in France to pay taxes, one could have arranged this in a much simpler way, by renegotiating the tax agreement with France. Then one would have skipped to take all the other pensioners. Because there's no doubt that it's untimely that Gro Harlem Brundtland, who had such a huge pension, had about NOK 700,000, would completely avoid paying taxes. What had been reasonable was whether she had paid some of her taxes to the country where she offered and used the services. But now it's the way you wouldn't. Now take all of them. So the finance minister has said that in the worst case, some pensioners can get up to 15 pst. in value added tax. So my question is, does the Minister of Finance hold on to this claim, and believe she will experience this as reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e973	Yes, I expect the pensioners who currently live in France and who do not pay taxes, either to France or to Norway, it seems reasonable that they start paying 15 pst. tax. It was just supposed to be missing. They have access to all services in Norway. If they pay social security contributions, they also have access to all health services – and that money comes from Norway. I do not understand that the Progress Party believes it is reasonable that they should continue as zero-taxors. I do not understand that the Progress Party believes it is reasonable that Swedish pensioners in Norway pay taxes to Sweden, and Norwegian pensioners in Norway pay taxes to Sweden. That's what's happening today. Nor do I understand that the Progress Party considers it reasonable that minimum pensioners who could have been reduced by the tax limitation rule and our proposal, if the proposals of the Progress Party were adopted, would still have to pay a high social security tax. That is the result of opposing this proposal. Renegotiation of a tax agreement is an incredibly laborious and long process. I see no reasonableness in initiating such a process in relation to France. It is much easier to introduce withholding taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e984	The Minister of Finance has repeated several times in his speech that the opposition is disturbing the pensioners. No, they were concerned long before this matter came to the committee. They were troubled by the Government's proposals. They were concerned because it is clear that even in many cases double taxation must be avoided, and this confirms to the extent that the Minister of Finance is now. But she goes pretty easily over it and says that you have to assume that this gets them to, etc. But I'm going to give the Minister of Finance an opportunity to calm the pensioners down. In the press release of 20 February, she wrote the following: ‘Some people are concerned that the new bill could lead to double taxation. It will not happen.’ Can the Minister of Finance guarantee the pensioners concerned that this will not happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e998	I can't guarantee 346 pensioners who live in countries with which we don't have a tax agreement, but they also have to be guaranteed initially through normal driving rules for taxation. But for all other countries with which we have tax agreements, we have tax agreements to prevent double taxation. The whole point of tax agreements is to have agreements that work so that you don't pay double the tax, to two countries. This means that when you contact the Norwegian authorities and the authorities of the country in which you live, it is cleaned up, so that you do not pay double taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1003	As I said before, I don't think it's reasonable that Gro Harlem Brundtland didn't pay taxes at all, but it's quite possible to rectify it by renegotiating the tax agreement with France. But then the Minister of Finance says it's so hard. Yeah, well, how hard has one tried to do it? How does one know that it is difficult? Is there any contact with France to try to renegotiate the agreement? I can't find out that you've done a lot of nothing compared to it. When it applies to those who can get up to 15 percentage points in extra taxes, many of the taxes pay to the country in which they live today, so they get the withholding tax in addition to that. One has no tax agreement that regulates this. I find it hard to believe that they will experience it as reasonable and fair that, in addition to paying taxes to that country, they also have to pay 15 pst. tax at source to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1013	I don't think Hageseter has been well enough involved in what this case is about, because the whole point of tax agreements is to prevent double taxation. That means that if you pay withholding tax to Norway at 15 pst. and resided in another country and pays taxes there, you shall deduct it. That's not how you get double taxation, unless you live in a country where we don't have a tax agreement. This applies, for example: Seychelles, Angola and some other countries, but we have tax agreements with most countries. Then there is no question of increasing the tax on pensioners. Then there is the question that parts of the tax paid by pensioners, or perhaps the whole, are going to Norway instead of to the country in which they live. It's not like they get the withholding tax of 15 pst. at the top of the tax they already pay. That's the whole point. This case is not about increasing the tax on pensioners. It's that if you pay 15 pst. in taxes, the tax will go to Norway and not to the country in which you live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1018	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 344]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1028	Then Odelstinget will vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1215	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1225	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1232	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward from the Svein Fleet on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 20 On the Law on Changes in the Tax Law, etc. [[2008-2009]] [[tax on pensions, etc.]] return to the Government.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1322	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1333	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1346	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-26-lower.ana.ud1604e1358	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
