ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e185	The clock has been ringing for the last time for the Creation and its members.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e198	There is no record. Given that this last meeting has evolved into an early morning meeting, the President will allow himself to drop the reading of what is in parentheses under each case, and carefully read the title of each case. It assumes that the Members who wish to speak on the individual matter are more than generally awake and follow closely!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e216	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e233	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e250	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e267	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e284	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e301	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e319	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e337	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e355	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e374	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e392	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e410	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e428	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e446	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e464	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e482	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e500	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e518	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e536	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e553	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e571	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e588	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e605	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e622	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e639	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e656	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e673	No one has asked for the floor. The decision of the Odelsting is therefore endorsed by the Laging. The bill will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e685	Today, Lamentations are closed. It's been a long time since it had some meaningful function. On the other hand, the legacy of Saving – quality control and minority protection – is as important now as it was in the past. In his book ‘The Senate That Never Was’, Morten Søberg writes about where the laying came from. Well, long before 1814 – in ancient Norwegian law – the laying was a mission for a complete team. At that time, the Supreme Judicial and Legislative Body was laid down. All of this they knew very well about Eidsvoll. On the other hand, Adler and Falsen preferred an "overhouse" according to American pattern: a Norwegian Senate with many and important similarities to the American variant. Among other things, Adler and Falsen argued that the Norwegian senators would sit for six years at a time – against two-year periods for the odelsting representatives. It didn't work that way. Nevertheless, the creation was intended to be a function in which the protection of minorities and quality control of the legal work were central, and through the function of the national court, the actual manifestation of the elected authority was the highest, the holder of the last word: a popular overcast. At its best, the Lamentations have contributed to better laws. The creation has given a minority of Stortinget the right and obligation to ensure the quality of the very foundations of a free and civilised society, which is to be ‘built and not destroyed by law’. Not least at a time of majority rule, and within a system in which a general majority of the Storting is leading the way the Constitution is to be understood, there is reason to stop the concepts of power distribution and minority protection. Our constitution rests heavily on these principles, and not without reason. Without inviolable individual rights and state powers balancing the power of the majority, we are reducing our ability to live free lives. The biggest task is to be a strong state power and to defend citizens' rights and the ability to live free lives, to protect them from abuse and abuse of power. Then the Storting must be as strong, as independent as the Creation was once intended to be. It's our job to protect the institutions and develop them further, in line with the "time and hope" as it stands so beautifully in the mountain law. The living legacy after Creation must be a constant reminder of just this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18-upper.ana.ud2054e696	The President recalls that on 20 February 2007 the Stortinget adopted, against one vote, a draft constitution by representatives Jørgen Kosmo, Berit Brørby, Siri Hall Arnøy, Olav Gunnar Ballo and Kjell Engretsen on changes to the Constitution with a view to repealing the division of the Stortinget into two sections. Since today's meeting is thus the very last in the history of the Creation, the President finds it natural that the meeting ends with a few mementos. They will not be followed by 1 minute's silence, nor do they need to be heard standing. Nor will the President end by lighting peace over the memory of the Lamentations. It would be inappropriate, for even the most modest little stripe in history will show that the Creation was conceived and came to the world during battle, and that throughout its 195-year history it has been the source of and subject to battle. The Parliamentary Assembly of Eidsvoll took the decision on the two-part division of the Stortinge in a ostrich and a laying with the scarcest possible margin, 54 against 52 votes. In § 49 – the first paragraph under the chapter entitled «Citizens' Law and Legislative Power» – the Charter of Fundamental Law, the principle of popular sovereignty, was given this scarce and ingenious form: “The people exercise legislative power at Storthinget, which consists of two departments, one Lagthing and one Odelshing.” The Constitutional Law that, once the National Assembly was opened by the King, was to be divided into two sections, was promoted at the Kingdom Assembly by the Lords Adler and Falsen. Concerning the use of the terms Odelsting and Lagging, a footnote to the draft Constitutional Law states: «The designations Lagmandsthing and Odelsthing seem not only to be entirely adequate, but even have the advantage of being derived from the ancient language of the country. This was formerly called a meeting of the men of the land for the sake of their heart: a man skilled in the law, and therefore a congregation of men of old age, and a better understanding of the multitude. The two-part parliament finally decided, was far less marked and the difference between the two things far more modest than what Adler and Falsen saw separately. Their proposal provided that, while the staging representatives would otherwise be elected for two years, the members of the Lamentations would sit for six years and be elected according to a certain relationship between the founders. One third of the members were to retire every two years. Furthermore, the teammen were to be at least 30 years old, while the age limit for the other representatives was proposed to be 21 years old. In addition, the teammen were to own plots of land at a value of at least 10000 specials or have an annual income of at least 800 specials. When the Eidsvoll Constitutional Committee had finished its work, only the two-part division itself was standing back. All the rest was planed down. What was decided was that the Stortinget, after it had formed, would elect a quarter of its own members to make up the Lamentation. The choice should be made freely, irrespective of the age, place of residence, profession, condition or economy of the chosen persons. The working time should be the same as for Odelstinget, three years, according to the grossing-up period. The practical design of the two-part division closed the session to a unanimous and non-debt vote. The idea behind the two-part division, also in the heavily moderated version it received through the treatment of the National Assembly, was that it would help to ensure the quality of the legislative work by preventing accidental shots from leading to outdated law decisions. Jacob Aall, who belonged to the majority of 54 who supported the two-part division, defended it by thinking of forming a thing that could serve in a sense and intelligence as a regulatory corrigendum for the elected legislators, since many of them had little experience in the legislative system and government. The missionary Sibbern, who belonged to the same majority, writes in his diary that the Constitutional Committee feared that the number of farmers on later occasions could become so large that they could get the "narrowest" things through in total. There was never a calming around the system of two-part processing of legal acts, as set out in the Constitutional Act § 49 and the associated rules for the legal handling of § 76. In 1857 there was a proposal to amend § 76, so that the members of the Lawyers were also given the right to make proposals in legal cases. In 1921 Prime Minister Gunnar Knudsen proposed to repeal the provisions of the same paragraph in three days' time between treatment in odelsting and laying. The Constitutional Committee unanimously rejected the proposal and expressed its opinion, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Although compliance with the time limits laid down in the Basic Law may have its disadvantages, the Committee considers that there are greater disadvantages in eliminating the guarantees provided by the Basic Law for careful consideration.’ In 1924, Christopher Hornsrud proposed that Section 76 of the Constitution be amended so that plenary decisions in the Stortinget should be taken by a general majority. In Stortinget the proposal was rejected by 94 votes to 30. In 1926, Henrik Ameln and Lars Oftedal proposed that odelsting and laying should change the role of legal proceedings. Law decisions were then to be promoted in the Lamentations, either by laymen or the Government. This was unanimously rejected by Stortinget. The representative Ameln was the most resilient when it came to proposing the abolition of the two-part division. He made such proposals both in 1932, in 1948, and in 1952. All three times the proposal was unanimously rejected by the Stortinget. When it was unanimous, it was because the representative Ameln was no longer a member of the Stortinget. In 1927 the Stortinget set up a special committee as a follow-up to the national court case against Prime Minister Abraham Berge and his government. In the position of the Special Committee, three workers' party representatives Alfred Madsen, Christopher Hornsrud and Arne Magnussen went in to remove the two-sharing system. Among other things, they wrote the following: ‘This system is real and unparalleled. It seems to mean a breach of the pure one-chamber system and an attempt at applying the two-chamber system, but this is really just a skin. [[...]] The purpose of the bridging of the Storting into departments in the handling of legal cases seems to have been to obtain a more reassuring treatment of these by the formation of a special department of law. [[Laughter]] The Lords Madsen, Hornsrud and Magnussen were categorical and crushing in their judgment over the two-way system: «Since the original purpose has thus been lost, the division of the Grand Duchy by legal proceedings seems to have lost all practical significance and any primacy of justification. From a point of view, there can be no real gain in the fact that legal proceedings are dealt with separately in two departments of the Grand Duchy, chosen by the same voters under the same electoral rules and for the same term of office, and which are also composed in the same way. This present system achieves nothing more than unnecessary, formalistic and long-term legal proceedings.» The interesting thing is that the proposal of the three workers’ party representatives launches the proposal to which the Stortinget has agreed during this period, namely that the Stortinget in plenary should, through two readings, take into account the consideration which was originally the basis for the two-way distribution. In June 1929, Madsen and Hornsrud promoted proposals for constitutional change in line with this view. A unanimous increase was opposed to the proposal in 1932, but the Stortinget decided to ask the Government at the same time. ‘to examine the question of law treatment in the Grand Duchy, including the repeal of the Grand Duchy departments and to present the results of any proposals to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible’. [[Odeltinget og Lagtinget]] Four years later, in 1936, the government of Nygaardsvold – probably surprising to many – came back with a warm defense for the two-part division. It's called in St.meld. No 26 from 1936: ‘Any audit will be better when carried out by someone other than the one whose work is to be audited. And this double treatment is of particular importance netp in the case of legal cases – because, unlike most other cases decided by the Storting, the legal cases relate to general prohibitions that are intended to apply for a longer period of time.’ Then, in this big message – interestingly – there is a strong argument against the very scheme that will come into force from 1 October 2009, i.e. 73 years later: ‘Of course, the benefits of the departmental treatment provided for in the double examination cannot be approximated by the fact that, instead of the departmental treatment, multiple treatment is prescribed in plenary. With the first vote, each representative has taken his position and it will be difficult for him to withdraw from it and at second reading to work for amendments to the decision. An economic use of the time of the Storting will also make it necessary to prevent the matter from being brought up for discussion in any wider scope at the time of the last reading.» The 1936 Notice of paperback indicates that the departmental treatment is an effective protection against the adoption of premature and unconsidered decisions: ‘It would be rather difficult, during a plenary session and two readings in plenary, to get those who voted in favour of the bench proposal at first reading to recognise their own fault and to remove it at second reading.’ Equally categorical is the Nygaardsvold government in its rejection of the idea of lifting the requirement of a 2/3 majority when dealing with legislative matters in plenary. It points out that if a simple majority were introduced, it would in every case be that it was Odelsting's position that came to pass and become the final decision of the Big One. That's what it says – and it's worth listening to: ‘And the Creation would then gradually resign – refrain from making remarks in the awareness that it did not benefit at all. It would gradually descend to a kind of shadow life – where the smaller representatives of the different parties were placed – and it became Odelstinget who decided it all.” As it is written, "there is nothing new under the sun". As long as the division has passed, there have been far different views of the place of Creation and the status of being a member of the Creation. The question is, is it to be designated as a member of the Creation to be regarded as a punishment, something like being banished to four years of political exile, or is it to be considered to be the closest one to what the terminology of the Salvation Army calls being promoted to glory? Two quotations, both from the year 1859, can illuminate the range of tension. The representative of Nils Elias Børresen stated in a debate in Stortinget on 22 November this year that Laginget was considered ‘as a place of refuge. It is a well-known case that if the question is to choose laypersons, there is a dispute between the members in order to avoid being elected to it.' On 4 October of that year, the representative Ludvig Daae recorded in his diary: “On Monday morning, I received a ticket from Krag informing me that Ueland and Sverdrup had placed me on the proposal list for Lagthinget. This made me very unexpected, and I first thought of counteracting it by all my might. However, more thought convinced me that even if I wanted to be in Odelstinget, there were also several advantages to being in Lagthinget. In part, I would have more time left, and in part, if I did not accomplish anything in the Great Thing, for part would be written on account of the laying position." In other words, as a mitigating circumstance, the President will not rule out the fact that the Daae’s point of view could have something to do with it. In the last century, it has been the case that the issues that have often led to debate in Lagting have been the kind of issues that are often referred to as «conscience issues», and where some clusters have freed their representatives, or where some representatives have reserved themselves against the position of the large group. Or there have been localisation issues, where all the groups have asked the representatives freely. An interesting example of the latter came in 1982, when the Odelstinget decided that Ålesund should have the bishop's seat for a new Moor and Rome'sdal diocese, while the Lamentationt would have the name More diocese with Molde as bishop. In the next round, Odelstingen bent off and accepted the Lamentations' remark. In the spring of 1975 and spring 1978 there were major debates in the Law on changes in the law on abortion. In May 1987 there was a longer debate on anonymity by artificial fertilisation, in the spring of 1993 a longer debate on the Partnership Act. It is likely that the Lamentations will remember that during this period we have had broad debates on the Biotechnology Act and the Marriage Act, less extensive debates on the right to return and on changes to the Information Society Fund Act. It is close to asking the question at last: How will the postulate of the Creation be? None of us know for sure. Perhaps it's close to remembering Trygve Bratteli's answer when he was at a press conference when he left as Prime Minister got the same question about how he thought his successor would be. Then Bratteli gave the following laconic answer: To the extent that it can be used to damage my successor, I guess it will be good. It will be up to the next big thing to show that the government of Nygaardsvold was wrong when it warned against the scheme that will replace today's 195 year long tradition from 1 October. We, the members of the last team, are going to follow the further development with keen attention – some of us perhaps even with a little fear and trembling. Then there may be a comforting thought that the judgment could be difficult to make more severe than the Oscar II in his memoirs or the Lamentations after the national court case against the Ministry of Selmer in 1883: «The composition of the layer at the beginning of the potion in 1883 should have opened the eyes of little was. The strong radical majority with its unbridled party ciplin and under the ruthless tyranny of its leaders acted as a man, and removed from the denunciation all those who were independent thinking and contradictory suspects, so that the lay-off, this pseudo-super-house of the ideological Eidsvoldsmen, this court in whose hand the highest political law of the kingdom was laid, became only a slave under the power language of the participles.» With this, the Lamentations function is finished for good. In this increasingly brighter summer morning, it remains only for the President to thank the members of the last lay of history for working together well over four years and to wish everyone a good summer and a good election result to which they had to earn their money. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? The last record meeting has been cancelled.
