ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e40	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e47	We are currently considering a proposal for amendments to the Act on Child Protection Services, which involves the creation of a child expert commission. The Committee's position is unanimous, and we fully support the proposals and assessments of the Ministry as expressed in the proposal. The attitude and proposition should therefore be sufficient in itself, but when I, as the case-rapporteur, choose to take the floor, it is to point out the importance of the legislative change that is now being made. As a starting point, the Committee points out that there is a great deal of good child protection work in municipalities, characterised by a high level of professional competence and good judgement. However, a number of cases require specific competence in addition to that of the child protection service itself. It is not possible to undermine the fact that there have been discussions on quality in relation to some child protection issues. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that current quality assurance measures are not sufficient and therefore supports the proposal that a child-expert Commission should be set up to ensure the quality of all expert reports on child protection matters. The decisions taken in a child-restraint case may have a decisive impact on the development and quality of life of children, and such decisions may also have a profound impact on parents. In many difficult cases, child protection services, county councillors and the Court of Justice use experts for, among others. to assess the care of parents and the needs of children. By virtue of their specific competence, the judgements of experts could have a major impact on the final decisions taken and it is therefore important that the report complies with verifiable quality requirements. The Committee has stressed the need for a child expert commission to ensure equal treatment across the country, so that different cultures do not develop in different Commissions. The Committee therefore supports the establishment of a central Commission and its location with the Secretariat of Justice. Several hearing bodies have expressed concerns that the introduction of a child expert commission may lead to delays and extension of the time limit for proceedings. However, the Committee shares the view of the Ministry that quality assurance and the legal certainty of the parties must outweigh the risk of an unfortunate extension of the duration of proceedings. The proposal thus involves the creation of a separate Commission for the Evaluation of Children to ensure the quality of all reports made by experts in child protection matters. This concerns reports obtained by the Child Welfare Service, the County Council, the Court of Justice and the private parties. The reports underpinning the decision of the Child Protection Agency not to take any action shall also be quality assured by the Commission. As I said, the Committee fully endorses the proposal as it exists from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e66	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e74	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e151	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e160	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19-lower.ana.ud1451e209	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
