ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e67	The representatives of Anette Trettebergstien, Hilde Magnusson Lydvo, Kenneth Svendsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Elisabeth Aspaker, and Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. They called the alternates, for Akershu County Rannveig Kvifte Andresen, and for Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen, have taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e102	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e105	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Laila Davøy and myself to propose a stepping-up plan to ensure full child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e110	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e125	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 330]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e140	Important changes are taking place politically and institutionally in Europe, and this is happening in the wake of a financial crisis that has affected countries differently. Some countries, such as Norway, seem to be the most difficult behind them, while others, particularly among the new EU Member States and the EU’s neighbouring countries, face challenging challenges. But all countries must live with continued uncertainty. Everyone is affected, for what characterises today’s Europe, is that the interdependence does not leave no one untouched by the difficulties of other countries. The core of the Government’s European policy is to take care of Norwegian interests and values in this region. The Government Platform states that the Government will work specifically to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. We must maintain an up-to-date European policy in close contact with the European institutions and the Member States. We must take our share of responsibility for a stable and solidarity Europe. We're doing that job, and we're continuing the work from the last four years. This is a clearly prioritised task in the work of the Government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The EEA Agreement is the framework for Norway's relationship with the EU. This is the most comprehensive international agreement ever concluded by Norway and is of importance for Norwegian jobs, value creation and well-being. As we could remember during the Nordic Council meeting in Stockholm last month, the EEA Agreement is also the most important Nordic cooperation agreement ever concluded. Because it's through which we got a Nordic home market with predictability and common rules. For the EEA Agreement, it is precisely that – predictability of the same rules as are still in force in Norway’s most important market – predictability of compliance with and respect for the law and of non-compliance with it. This predictability — the certainty of non-discrimination — is the very basic idea behind the EEA Agreement, and this objective is enshrined in the very first paragraphs of the Agreement. At the same time, we must recognise that the agreement also presents us with challenges, because it is constantly being expanded and developed as the EU progresses. This is part of the background to the Government’s decision to carry out a thorough review of the experience with the EEA Agreement. This I will come back to. But let me add that the EU is also pleased with the functioning of the EEA Agreement. That was confirmed by both the EU Presidency and the EU Commission at a high level during yesterday’s EEA Council in Brussels. St.meld. No 23 on the implementation of European policy, from June 2006, remains the tool of the Government’s European policy. The objectives of the Communication have been pursued through its own action plan. The main measure is that the Government has developed three overarching work programmes in the EEA, Justice and Home Affairs and in the field of foreign policy. The work programmes are updated annually and are the Government's management tool. They are governing to promote Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU as effectively as possible and at an early stage. The government is now updating the St.Mud content. No 23 in the light of recent experience, and will keep in touch with the Stortinget. Good European competence is an important resource. The Government is working to maintain and further develop a competent and coordinated administration. This work is becoming increasingly important in the light of political and institutional developments in the EU. Maintaining such a competence — compared with neighbouring countries that are both our partners and competitors — can be a matter of our own challenges when we do not participate in the full range of cooperation. Let me add: if good European knowledge and competence in administration are important, it is equally important that the other actors in society, in politics, business and employment, also ensure a high level of knowledge. The Government will continue to facilitate actions that can help to maintain and further develop this knowledge and competence. We rely on this in order to ensure maximum scope for participation in EU policies and regulatory developments that directly affect us. The development of national positions at an early stage is important in this context. The new Treaty of the European Union – the Treaty of Lisbon – is expected to enter into force on 1 December. It is important for the EU, and therefore it also has an impact on Norway. The Treaty further develops EU cooperation at EU level and is intended to provide a basis for enhanced efficiency in EU cooperation, which has been necessary after increasing the number of members in recent years. The governments of the EU countries stress that the Treaty of Lisbon strengthens the EU's democratic legitimacy, and they point primarily to two aspects: firstly, the Treaty confers greater powers on the European Parliament as legislator and in the treatment of the EU budget. Secondly, the Treaty gives national parliaments an increased role in EU cooperation. They shall ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected when EU legislation is to be adopted. In addition, the ruling of the German Constitutional Court on the Treaty of Lisbon has strengthened the powers of the German Parliament in EU cases. The same can happen in other EU countries. New in the Treaty of Lisbon is primarily the changes that have been made to improve the functioning of the EU at institutional level, particularly in view of the fact that the number of members has increased and may continue to increase. The substance, on the other hand, in the various policy areas is largely unchanged. The Rules of Procedure of the Council have been amended by a double majority. This means that in the case of decisions which need to be taken by a qualified majority, at least 55 pst must be taken. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) These must simultaneously represent at least 65 pst. of the population of the European Union. This is intended to ensure the balance between small and large countries with different population figures. The new voting rules will not enter into force until 2014. The number of areas in which decisions are to be taken by a qualified majority has also been extended. We have carefully assessed the possible impact on Norway of the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular in view of our participation in the EEA and in Schengen. I have presented the main elements of this review in the past. The document has been communicated to Stortinget by the Foreign Affairs Committee and is publicly available. The most direct impact on our relationship with the EU is the loss of the so-called pillar structure that has so far led to the functioning of EEA cooperation. It has, for example, it has been easy to know whether a directive is relevant to the EEA if it is promoted through the so-called internal market pillar. A goal of the disintegration of the pillar structure is to make EU policies more comprehensive and cross-sectoral. This in turn may make it more demanding to decide whether EU cases are EEA or Schengen-relevant. Furthermore, if EU cooperation outside our agreements is extended, a relatively smaller part of EU cooperation is covered by our agreements. In other words, we must follow this very closely. Iceland submitted its EU application this summer after a majority in Everything voted in favour of the application. The EU questionnaire has been examined in Iceland and has now been handed over to the Commission. It is now up to the Commission to present its formal assessment of the application and a proposal for the start of negotiations at the EU Summit in December, or early in the next Presidency period. On the Icelandic side, we are preparing the negotiations, which we hope will start early in 2010. Iceland will hold a referendum on whether or not to enter the EU. The outcome is uncertain, and polls today show a clear majority against it. Our impression is that Iceland has met with continuous goodwill in the EU. At the same time, the EU has a broader enlargement agenda to deal with, inter alia: the applications from Croatia and Turkey and potential new candidates in the Balkans. From the Norwegian side, we assume that the EEA Agreement will act as today throughout the Icelandic membership process until a referendum takes place. Iceland and the EU are also focusing on this. It is also the government's starting point that the EEA Agreement remains the basis for our relationship with the EU, even if Iceland goes from EFTA to the EU. The agreement is not, as you know, dependent on a certain number of members. If Icelandic membership becomes a reality, Norway, Liechtenstein and the EU will have to assess whether such a transition may necessitate technical changes to the functioning of the Agreement. This is our message to the EU, which has been conveyed in letters to the Commission and to the Presidency of the European Union. The EEA Agreement has now worked for 15 years. The size gathered in ours about a desire for a broad review of the agreement. The Government of the Government Platform announces that it will set up a research-based, broad-based public body to carry out a thorough review of the experience of the EEA Agreement and the impact of the agreement on all societal areas. The Government wants such a review to contribute to the establishment of a common knowledge and discussion base. We need a fact-based and sober description of reality. Norway’s relationship with the EU raises value issues and also fosters conflicts of interest. An investigation will not and cannot resolve such contradictions, but could help clarify the facts and what one agrees or disagree on. It will also stimulate those who would like to assess alternatives to the EEA Agreement. But it's not the focus of this investigation. To put it this way: we are going to review the still work – the construction work – which is the EEA Agreement. We are not going to contact architects in this investigation to draw up a new construction work. The National European Forum was held on 3 November. The forum is an annual round table that I run myself, with various participants from Norwegian society. This year’s theme was our experience with the EEA Agreement after 15 years. At the meeting, representatives of research, social partners and political parties shared their experience with the EEA Agreement. It was a good meeting that provided useful input in advance of the review of the EEA Agreement. Another useful body for dialogue on European issues is the European Policy Forum for Central, Regional and Local Authorities and the Body. This is where central and regional authorities meet. The forum is holding a meeting in Oslo today, with the Municipality of Oslo as a host. Energy, climate and environment are the main themes this time. The Forum will discuss experiences with ‘green energy municipalities’ and local climate plans, and key points in EU energy and climate policy will then be addressed. It is important that Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities engage. For the implementation of the EEA Agreement, very much occurs at local level. Norway shall take its share of the responsibility for contributing to a stable and solidarity Europe. Our contribution to reducing social and economic differences in the EEA has been significant. During the five-year period from 2004 to 2009, our contribution has been more than DKK 10 billion. The EEA financial instruments established by the EEA extensions in 2004 and 2007 expired on 30 April. The negotiations on a new agreement for the five-year period from 2009 to 2014 are now in the final phase. The government’s starting point has been that the level of new contributions should be assessed on the basis of what is reasonable in relation to the own efforts of the EU countries. The government has also stressed that new funds should go to countries that need them the most. Negotiations have been difficult, and they have taken longer than we predicted. This is partly due to the financial crisis, but also to the fact that the beneficiary countries have been more involved in the negotiations than last time. We now agree with the Commission on the main elements of a new agreement. We are still waiting for the EU countries to gather on the final result. From our side, we hope for an early conclusion, so that the cooperation can be renewed and continued. We repeated it at the Brussels meetings yesterday. We will come back with detailed information on the content and arrangements of the agreement, and we will continue with a broad set of information on the outcome of the cooperation that this funding mechanism actually involves. All projects developed and implemented in now 12 EU countries are key Norwegian footprints and provide the potential for enhanced cooperation with beneficiary countries, centrally and locally. Let me add that, on the Norwegian side, a prerequisite for an agreement on new EEA funds has been a satisfactory result in the parallel discussions on market access for fish. These discussions are also expected to be concluded in a short time. I would like to mention some of the relevant EEA issues. The Postal Directive – the third in the series – opens the postal market by putting out postal consignments of less than 50 grams. The Directive has a deadline for implementation in the EU to 31 December 2010, but with the possibility for eleven named Member States to postpone the deadline by up to two years. In Soria Moria II, the Government has decided to postpone the implementation of the third EU postal directive. We will acquire knowledge and untapped consequences from the possible implementation of the Directive. In the assessment of the Postal Directive, we will focus on maintaining equivalent postal services throughout the country and at the current level of service. The Data Storage Directive will harmonise EU legislation relating to the storage of data generated by the use of electronic communications. The aim is to provide the judicial authorities with a tool for investigating criminal acts. The Data Storage Directive was adopted by the EU as part of the internal market and the deadline for the implementation of the Directive in the EU Member States expired on 15 September 2007, with the exception of Internet data, which was extended until March 2009. It also raises data protection issues that need to be carefully assessed. The government aims to summarise in the first half of 2010 on the basis of ongoing investigations and then return to the Stortinget. A consultation document from the Government is also notified in a short time. As you know, there are differences of views on the Government Directive and the approach of the parties has been drawn up and clarified in the Government Platform. The EU proposal for a directive on patient rights aims at establishing a framework for cross-border healthcare in the EU. This is done to ensure sufficient clarity on rights regarding reimbursement of healthcare costs received in another EU country, and to take the necessary steps to ensure that high-quality services can be provided safely and efficiently. The proposal has been the subject of the first reading in the European Parliament. The result was a compromise. The Council's first reading is expected to take place at the Health Council meeting at the beginning of December 2009. Norway has already implemented parts of the proposal in the light of the case-law of the European Court of Justice relating to the rules on the free movement of services. The Ministry of Health and Welfare follows the case at both political and official level, vis-à-vis the European Parliament, the Commission and the'similar' Member State, in particular with regard to the Swedish Presidency. We will return to Stortinget once the EU has taken its decision on the matter and the conditions for the inclusion of the Directive into the EEA have been discussed with the EU side. There have been significant delays in the entry into force of legislation incorporated into the EEA Agreement during the last year, including a comprehensive legislation on hygiene and control. This is due to a delay in the processing and adoption of a new Icelandic food law in Iceland. The Commission has also stopped the inclusion of new legislation into the EEA Agreement in the field of food, which is very unfortunate. We have been informed from Iceland that this matter is given a high priority, but the timetable for treatment in Everything is still unclear, even though Iceland announced a quick decision last night, in Brussels. The EU Cell Regulation was finally adopted by the Council on 27 July. From the Norwegian side, we do not consider the Regulation to be relevant to the EEA. The decision provides for a total ban on the placing on the market of cell products, with a few exceptions. Before the summer of 2010, the Commission will adopt so-called implementing legislation for these exemptions, and we will do what we can to influence the Commission and the Member States in this process. However, in the light of the regulation, we must insist that all Norwegian trade in cell products to the EU be prohibited. On 5 November, Norway, in the same way as Canada, requested dispute resolution consultations with the EU in the WTO. This is the first step in the dispute resolution process established by the WTO. Whether there are grounds for going further with a dispute resolution panel, as we did with the salmon case, will have to be assessed in the light of the outcome of the consultations. We are in close contact with Canada on this matter. I also want to mention the challenges we have had with mackerel fishing in EU waters. With effect from 2 October, the EU has closed its waters for mackerel fishing for Norwegian vessels. More than 30 vessels had to stop fishing at short notice. Norway considers the termination to be a clear breach of the bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU. Norway has protested to the European Commission, both in writing and orally, and has negotiated it in several rounds without reaching an agreement — so far. The Commission’s disagreement concerns the interpretation of Norway’s bilateral agreement with the EU. The question of mutual zoning will be discussed during the bilateral fisheries negotiations. However, these negotiations, which began this week, relate to the quota agreement for next year, and will not be able to solve the acute problems that have arisen for Norwegian mackerel fishermen this autumn. One important aspect of the Treaty of Lisbon is that, in the field of research, technological development and space policy, the development of a European Research Area – the European Research Area is now under way for the first time. Through various measures, we now see the development of what is referred to as a fifth freedom – the free movement of researchers, knowledge and ideas – in addition to the internal market already established four freedoms. Coordination of national research activities, programmes and policies will be strengthened. When such an area is now enshrined in the Treaty, we can expect European cooperation outside the EU's Framework Programme for Research to become more important and to become more involved in national research policies. The common budgets are expected to increase, in part significantly. For our part, we will have new opportunities and challenges related to participation in new programmes and activities in the pan-European research area on the basis of the EEA Agreement. It is therefore essential that we have a close dialogue with the EU on activities related to the European Research Area and European knowledge cooperation in general. So on another area related to financial conditions: for many years, the EU has established minimum guarantee requirements for bank deposits of EUR 20 000, which are now raised to at least EUR 50000 in the context of the financial crisis. Earlier this year, the EU decided to fully harmonise the amount of the guarantee to EUR 100000 by the end of 2010. In Norway, we have a good guarantee scheme for deposits, where deposits are guaranteed up to 2 million. kr per. contributors per bank. If such a change were to be implemented for Norway by incorporating the new provisions into the EEA Agreement without any adaptation text allowing the continuation of the Norwegian scheme, it would mean more than half of the Norwegian guarantee amount. As we have stated in Soria Moria II, the Government will defend our deposit guarantee scheme and is now actively working towards the EU to ensure that the level of the Norwegian deposit guarantee can be maintained today. Sweden has the Presidency in the EU in the autumn. Sweden took over the Presidency for a challenging period, in the middle of a global recession and with an undefinite institutional situation for the EU. The Presidency seems to have dealt very well with these challenges. Our Swedish friends were well prepared. It's worth noting what role such a task gives our neighboring country over six busy months. It is the Presidency country of Sweden that heads all political meetings and has a decisive influence on Europe’s political agenda. Climate and energy have been at the centre of the various EU Presidencies in recent years. This also applies to the Swedish Presidency and to the forthcoming Spanish Presidency. Sweden is a driver of EU environmental work and is working to create a strong EU voice towards the Copenhagen climate conference. This was also a key issue during yesterday’s meeting in the EEA Council, where Sweden reiterated its objective of contributing to a comprehensive and binding climate agreement. The financial crisis is another priority area. Sweden wants, inter alia: to improve the rules governing financial markets and the supervision of financial undertakings. Both the financial crisis and the climate problem naturally fall under another of Sweden’s heart children, namely the EU’s Baltic Sea Strategy, where relations with Russia are also central. The strategy was adopted at the EU Summit in October. In addition, it is worth noting that the new five-year EU Justice and Home Affairs Programme, the Stockholm Programme, which is scheduled to be adopted at the summit in December 2009. The proposal contains ambitious objectives on combating crime, migration policy, social security and the protection of vulnerable groups. The expansion process has also been central to this harvest. Sweden has focused on maintaining the momentum in the membership process of the Balkans and Turkey, although the level of ambition has been lowered in the light of strong expansion resistance in some countries of the EU. On the Swedish side, it is hoped that the Commission's assessment of the Icelandic membership request will be completed during the Presidency period, or early during the Spanish Presidency. On the external side, an enhanced EU role is a key priority globally, including: through the Swedish-Polish initiative on Eastern Partnership as part of the neighbourhood policy. Norway has cooperated closely with the Swedish EU Presidency. We have had Norwegian employees outsourced in the Swedish U.D., both in the preparatory phase of the Presidency and now under the Presidency. We have a good dialogue with Swedish government councils, and several of my colleagues in the government have participated in informal ministerial meetings in Sweden. The Government aims to continue this constructive cooperation with the forthcoming Spanish Presidency. The EU has strengthened its climate policy in the last year. Energy and climate policies have developed a number of objectives and instruments. More comprehensive quota obligations are a central element. The EU has set out concrete targets for reducing its emissions both within and outside the EU ETS. Binding decisions have been taken to increase the renewable share of the energy mix and countries are in the process of concreteising how their energy efficiency is to be further enhanced. At the same time, efforts are being made to ensure that EU businesses do not suffer disproportionate burdens from other countries. An ambitious outcome in Copenhagen will be what can best reconcile these considerations. At the EU Summit last month, EU countries agreed on a joint negotiating mandate for the Copenhagen meeting. The Swedish Presidency has received a great deal of praise for the success of the Member States in agreeing on a common position, although important issues such as the EU's internal burden-sharing have not been finally resolved. Many EU decisions in the field of climate policy will be directly relevant to Norway. This applies, inter alia, to: several of the legislations under the energy and climate package. In some areas adaptation negotiations will be necessary before the Directives can be incorporated into the EEA. We take advantage of our opportunities to influence the EU through Commission research and participation in expert groups. The Government’s objective is to implement the relevant directives in Norway at the same time as in EU countries, which is also important to ensure predictable framework conditions for Norwegian business. This means that the Government will return to the Storting according to the deadline for implementation of each directive. Norway and the EU also work closely together in international climate cooperation in the run-up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. We don't have matching positions in one and all. The ambitions in Norway’s position go beyond the overall position of the EU, but the main policy direction is largely the same. Few actors have put on the table such ambitious targets for emission reductions in developed countries in a future climate agreement. Norway and the EU also stand out as the strongest defenders of the international regulatory framework and the use of instruments built up by the Kyoto Protocol. At the same time, we have the same understanding that an agreement in Copenhagen must cover more than today's Kyoto Protocol if the global level of ambition is to meet the challenges we face. An agreement without concrete emission obligations for the United States and binding measures for high-emission developing countries will not provide an adequate response to these challenges. Norway has made it clear that we want to strengthen our climate target so that it corresponds to the cut for emissions of 40 pst. by 2020 in relation to 1990 levels, if it can contribute to an ambitious climate agreement in which the large emitters assume concrete emission obligations. Although the signals from the APEC summit this weekend are bearing the bid that we will not have a legally binding agreement in Copenhagen, we – together with the EU – will work hard for the three weeks that remain, to get as good a binding agreement as possible. It's been over a year since the global financial crisis broke out. It's too early to write the history of the financial crisis. We must not neglect the great economic losses we have seen in the world in the last year. Nevertheless, it is right to say that the international community has avoided repeating the mistakes of the interwar period. The world economy is coming back on track. This is related to the overall response of the international community. Large aid packages were launched under the direction of the IMF in cooperation with the World Bank, regional development banks, the EU and bilateral donors. The EU has been an important player and has been able to pursue a comprehensive policy despite the fact that, in many cases, conflicts of interest between Member States have been evident. At the same time, it is interesting to note that the IMF emphasises that countries in Central and Eastern Europe are among the hardest hit even in a global context. Nordic cooperation has proven to be strong and relevant through the Nordic aid packages for Iceland and Latvia. Already in the spring of 2008, when Iceland ended up in a difficult payment situation, the other Scandinavian countries came to the rescue by the central banks entering into currency swaps with the central bank of Iceland. This year, new Nordic loan agreements with Iceland were signed for a total loan amount of about EUR 1.8 billion. The Norwegian share is 480 million. euro. These loans are a crucial part of the financing of the IMF's total stabilisation programme of about 1 %. EUR 3.5 billion. Norway has been busy helping Iceland in its difficult situation. Norway has also been a driver of early and substantial support for Iceland, including in the Nordic region, within a Nordic framework and in cooperation with the IMF. The Nordic loans are linked to Iceland's compliance with its international obligations, including deposit-guarantee obligations. These assumptions led to the consent of Stortinget in due time to provide State guarantees for this loan. The IMF Governing Board approved the first review of the progress of Iceland’s stabilisation programme on 28 October. This opened up for the second payment of the IMF loan and the first payment of the Nordic loans. The Icelandic government has made a great effort in the last six months to clean up after the fall of the banks and develop a policy of repatriation of Iceland's economy. It's important that this work continues, and that Iceland normalizes its relationship with the outside world. Without prejudice to the approval of the Stortinget, Norway has also promised a long-term loan of approx. EUR 370 billion for Latvia in connection with its IMF programme. The total funding package is EUR 7.5 billion. Here too, the Nordic countries contribute a total of EUR 1.8 billion to the financing. The EU contributes EUR 3.1 billion at Community level. Now there is an international consensus that rescue measures must provide the basis for sustainable growth. The G20 Group plays a prominent role in this work. The EU has a central role in the G20, with the permanent participation of four EU countries, the EU Presidency and the European Central Bank. In addition, Spain and the Netherlands have participated in the meetings. The G20 is a more representative grouping than the G7 as the G20 accounts for around 80 pst. GDP of the world. But the G20 is not 'G192', that is, all the countries of the world. The G20 does not have the legitimacy that can match the UN and the UN systems. Nor does the G20 represent the world’s country by the appointment of its members by election or other decision. This therefore raises questions about the legitimacy of G20 cooperation if the grouping takes formal or informal decisions that bind decisions in other forums. The Nordic countries are now working together on how best to promote our views and contribute to the G20 process and call for the legitimacy of the formal cooperation bodies, such as the United Nations system and the Bretton Woods institutions. We are now experiencing a broader debate on the international governance system than in many decades. It is in our interest that a clearer Nordic voice is heard in this debate, not least given the active involvement of the Nordics in international cooperation. EU economic policy is important for Norway, and the crisis has turned regulatory cooperation in Europe towards better regulation of the financial market. The Commission shall have inter alia: develop a new system for monitoring financial markets under consideration in the Council and Parliament for final decision. There will be a micro-level monitoring system in the form of agencies to follow the individual industries and be empowered to take decisions which are binding on individual undertakings. Norway will be able to take part in the discussion on individual enterprises when there is an interest in our being a host country or a parent country for the company in question. For macro-level monitoring, a risk board is proposed. It is also expected here that Norwegian participation will be opened up within certain frameworks. The legal acts on the new monitoring system are relevant to the EEA and are initially to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The detailed conditions for Norwegian participation could be agreed in this context. It is important that the financial crisis does not lead to protectionist measures or to an increase in the use of anti-competitive aid. New aid measures in the maritime sector have been reported in some EU countries. All such measures must be within the common rules of the internal market. The government will have close dialogue with the EU on developments in this area. In June, EU citizens elected a new European Parliament. There was a low turnout at the year's elections. The result showed a participation of only 41,3 pst. of the more than 375 million Europeans entitled to vote. This is a serious warning for the population of the EU, and the result is a paradox: fewer and fewer people are taking part in elections to an institution that has become increasingly important. The European Parliament has become a political workshop with real political power. This is important to note for both government and big business. It is positive that the Stortinget has recently strengthened contact with the European Parliament, both through formal channels and through the party groups. This is necessary. In several cases where there is broad consensus in political Norway, we can and should make a common front and work together strategically to influence and highlight Norwegian views. Portugal’s Barroso was re-elected to a new five-year term as President of the European Commission in the European Parliament on 16 September. The programme includes strengthening economic cooperation between EU countries, regulation of financial markets, reform of the budgetary system and an offensive climate policy. The work on putting together a new Commission is in progress, and the Commission is likely to be in place on December 1st, i.e. in a short time. It is timely that the female Commissioners, together with other female top leaders in the EU, have called on Barroso to strive for a Commission with a good balance between women and men. Finally, I would like to mention some of the issues of the EU's common foreign and security policy and EU cooperation on justice and home affairs policy. A goal of the Treaty of Lisbon is that the EU's common foreign and security policy should be more coherent and more weighty. It is natural for Norway to have close and ongoing contact with the various EU bodies when we are chiseling out our own foreign policy. In many things and processes, we have parallel vision. This must be exploited, both as a contributor and in the context of the initiatives taken by Norway, in which we can draw exchanges of support from the EU and from EU countries, such as Norway. in order to ensure a ban on class weapons. In the Middle East, our AHLC Presidency has continuous and close contact with the EU. In meeting the difficult situation both in Afghanistan and Pakistan, we note that the EU has launched a process to strengthen and coordinate its own efforts in these two countries. For Norway, this is important, among other things. in the police sector in Afghanistan, where we cooperate with the EU Police Mission – EUPOL – on the training of the civil Afghan police force. Let me also mention the operation Atalanta in Somalia, where the Norwegian frigate ‘Fridtjof Nansen’ participates in the EU operation to combat piracy. Our participation is regulated by the agreement concluded in 2004 between Norway and the EU on Norway’s participation in EU crisis management operations. The operation has a clear UN mandate which is a clear prerequisite for Norway’s participation. Operation so far is going well. The number of hijackings carried out has been significantly reduced. All escorts supporting the UN have arrived well at their destination. ‘Fridjof Nansen’ has been involved in several of these and has been praised for its efforts. The EU’s activity in the field of justice and home affairs directly affects us through the different contractual links Norway has in these areas. The main link with the EU in this area is our association agreement with Schengen. However, in order to be better equipped in the fight against cross-border crime, it is important for Norway to ensure close coordination with the EU in this area also beyond the Schengen Agreement. This can be done through bilateral cooperation and exchange of experience, but also through association agreements. It is a challenge for the EU to develop new cooperation in this area outside the scope of the Schengen Agreement. This presents Norway with specific challenges to ensure participation, participation and impact. Norway has negotiated an agreement with the EU on enhanced police cooperation, the so-called Prüm Agreement. This will include, among others: provide us with access to national databases on DNA, fingerprints and vehicles, and will be an important tool in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. The Prüm Agreement has a comprehensive chapter on data security and the processing of personal data. Consequently, the protection of privacy is well taken into account. The agreement is expected to be signed at the EU Council meeting on 30 November. In June 2009, the Commission presented a proposal for the creation of a new EU agency to manage the common IT systems in the field of justice and home affairs. The Agency shall initially be responsible for managing the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac systems, but the proposal also provides for the Agency to be responsible for both the development and management of future IT systems in this field. The legislative proposal is a further development of the Schengen and Eurodac acquis. The act establishing the Agency is currently under negotiation and Norway participates in these negotiations. As I pointed out in this statement, there has been an eventful summer and harvest in Europe – including in Norway, with major elections and renewed mandates to the red-green government. In the EU, a new European Parliament has met, a new Commission will be set up, and the Treaty of Lisbon is finally before its entry into force. In this context, we will add that the Council of Europe has been given a new Secretary-General by the election of Thorbjørn Jagland. I want to praise the parties of Stortinget for having worked together and focused on supporting the election campaign of Jagland and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Council of Europe plays an important role in the mosaic of European cooperation institutions, with its important focus on human rights and respect for the rule of law. Norway will support Jagland in his reform efforts, including: in the search for sensible and effective cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e371	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e390	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 331]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e411	In relation to the current interpellation, the President will refer to the fifth paragraph of Section 50 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. It is determined that government councils other than the one to which the interpellation is addressed may also respond. When the Minister of Defence has announced that she also wants to respond to the interpellant, the President's interpretation of the sixth paragraph of Section 50 is that even after her reply it opens up an post of up to 3 minutes from the interpellant, with a subsequent post of up to 3 minutes from the Council of State. There will also be comments from the Minister of Defence in up to 3 minutes towards the end of the debate. No objections have been raised; this is how the interpellation is carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e420	Just since this interpellation was written, a lot has happened in Afghanistan and the neighbourhood, and in the attitudes of important allies. The aim of the interpellation is to engage the Storting in a broad discussion on Afghanistan, and not least to hear how both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence assess the situation. We have had good Afghanistan debates in the past, and we have reached an agreement on most of them. But Afghanistan is changing, and we need to constantly assess whether what we are doing is effective and producing results. Norwegian policy vis-à-vis Afghanistan is not the only solution to the conflict. However, Norway is actively participating – military and civil. Then it is important to anchor the policies of the Great Britain and the people, and to search with close allies and find out what actually works. My starting point is a presidential election that didn't go after the recipe. Although we choose not to compare with our own choices, it was anything but good. But at last we got a result, and the President-in-Office continues. Then there is corruption, which does not seem to be getting smaller, and it is constantly feeding on large amounts of money in circulation in a country that is initially very poor. Secondly, there is a security situation that is far from being controlled in parts of Afghanistan, which creates insecurity for the ordinary Afghans, which makes aid work difficult and necessitates a large international military presence. I am concerned that we are not just looking at Afghanistan in isolation, but looking at the whole region and related relationships, whether the Kashmir conflict, unresolved border issues, the Taliban training camps in Pakistan – there are no themes missing. In this interview, I choose to look at the more internal issues in Afghanistan and how the countries involved act. When we discuss Afghanistan, I will also find that the picture is diverse. It's flashy. Examples of development work are useful. There's hope among girls getting school. There are opportunities for economic growth, with new roads and better telecommunications. Let's also highlight what works! But more importantly, changing what doesn't work, and that's what I want to challenge today. What is Norway's strategy? What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence think is the way forward? One thing is that our money doesn't always reach what they were meant to – it's more serious that we send out Norwegian soldiers and civilians to do a job in a country where the most fundamental principles of justice and democracy are not present. Equally serious is what I would call the betrayal of the international community against the Afghan people if you don't create order – order in the form of a competent government in Kabul and in the form of a coordinated international effort, which is effective military and civil, and which promotes security and development for the local population. Now it seems like there's starting to be an agreement on some points. Militaryly, it is proposed to give priority to the security of the ordinary Afghans rather than to the search for the Taliban. Lack of security leads to mistrust and frustration over both the government in Kabul and the international forces. However, such conversion requires all parties to close up and be willing to make the changes necessary to achieve it. Very different exposure rules and very different approaches to work in Afghanistan from different national forces are harmful. While some differences may have to be accepted, they must not create difficulties for the adopted strategy. It is an objective to enable the Afghan national army to replace international forces, but the road ahead seems long. It is a problem that not all Afghans feel that this is their army, which in turn is linked to the fact that not everyone who lives in what we call Afghanistan today has a feeling that Afghanistan is their country. In the case of civil development, the picture is mixed. But there is too much corruption and lack of security. Now we are in a situation where you have a weakened president, as a result of, among other things. the choice. So we have the opportunity to press. But if Karzai is pushed too much, he loses face—he may lose influence at home. So this is complicated. But we expect results, and everyone must be clear here. An outside press should not be about imposing an agenda on the Afghan people that they are not part of. But it must also be our task to see the frustration that many Afghans now feel themselves over their own authorities, who do not seem to care for their basic interests. Therefore, there are now important messages from the United States and from others that we need to see a change in how the government in Kabul is dealing with the challenges. The Netherlands has threatened to hold back appropriations. It is important that allies now press together, and do not leave any doubt in Kabul about what changes need to be made. If Norway and other countries are perceived as supporting a corrupt government that does not deliver, we have lost. Then it doesn't work – no matter how many soldiers we put in, or how much money we spend. A partnership with the President and Government of Afghanistan requires that we have the same objectives and work for the same values. But it is also a fundamental recognition that changes in Afghanistan must be wanted – and driven forward – by Afghans. We can only give support. We can never impose a development that is not desired. It's not just in Oslo or in Copenhagen you wait for Obama. Afghanistan is also waiting for Obama to announce what will be the US strategy for Afghanistan. The nagging we now see – and more or less controlled output in different directions – creates uncertainty, and that's the last thing we need. It may be wise to change course and adjust strategy, military and civil. Against the forces we are going to fight in Afghanistan, it is important that we show a clear and clear vision of our commitment. Everything else undermines the work. To put it at the head: President Bush was a president who acted first and asked questions afterwards. In Obama we have a president who asks all the right questions, but does not act. This puts us and the Afghans in a dilemma. To the extent that it is beneficial, Norway’s message to the United States should be that we expect clarification of strategy — and notification of strategy is even more important than the number of additional soldiers. But with a clear strategy, which includes a greater degree of security for the Afghan population, extra soldiers will be able to make a difference – everything is related to everything. Several soldiers have to come, if it's a clear strategy, and a clear strategy includes and assumes a partner in Kabul that we trust and that we can work with. Assistance to Afghanistan with development has been part of the Norwegian strategy from the first day. Afghanistan is today among the largest recipients of Norwegian and international transfers. The results have not been in relation to the means used, but it is good stories to tell and good examples to draw out. I want to draw up something that seems to work in many places in the rural areas of Afghanistan. It's giving direct money support to villages, where local leaders take responsibility for the money. Then these must ensure that the village gets e.g. water, electricity, school or health station. Cut out middlemen - local and foreign! That means cut-off in the administration and that we remove the basis for higher-level corruption. Prioritize the villages! Let them see that evolution benefits them! Let them have ownership of the local school, which they have built themselves! Sometimes it's simple often the best. This makes a difference in people's lives and brings them away from the Taliban. We saw some of the same thing during the reconstruction work after the tsunami disaster. The projects that were most successful were those who gave money support directly to the victims, who then took responsibility for building up their homes or getting a new fishing boat. In a normal situation, we expect all people to be able to handle such tasks. Why should people in Afghanistan not also be able to take that responsibility? Why should they be set aside while all services are provided? It's about taking people seriously and using the resources that are actually there. It turns out that the Taliban refuses more to attack a local school built by local residents. The most extremes in the Taliban don't take that kind of consideration, but someone does. A fundamental challenge, including for that type of development, is the lack of literacy skills, and that means that any involvement in Afghanistan is long-lasting in character. But any commitment must be defended and any commitment must show results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e448	Thank you to the interpellant for giving us an opportunity for a debate on how Norway and the international community can best meet the challenges in Afghanistan. Last week I had talks in Kabul with President Karzai, my colleague Spanta, opposition leader Abdullah, parliament president Qanooni, representatives of civil society and general McChrystal, head of the ISAF force. I'm left with some main impression: First of all, despite all the turbulence surrounding the elections, Hamid Karzai is the President who must deal with both Afghans and the international community. There are strong feelings about the implementation of the election. But this is behind us, Karzai obviously got the most votes, the election commission has said its own. We have to look forward to it. Secondly, both Afghan and international, there are clear demands for the future government to be responsible, legitimate and capable of delivering visible results to the population, not least in the fight against corruption and mismanagement. Thirdly, while making clear demands on the Afghan Government, it can make clear demands on the international community, on better coordination and on more coherent action, not least on the civil side. Keywords are assistance, training and capacity building. I said in the debate on the throne that the fight against rebel groups is not going to be stronger than the quality of the government we want to support. I'm holding on to that assessment. The circumstances surrounding the elections are one issue, but we can also ask whether there is no need for institutional changes in Afghanistan. Today’s institutions paint the image of a strongly centralised state, but Afghanistan is not such a state, with its provinces and strong local powers, often anchored in informal tribal structures, far beyond the reach of state institutions. Afghanistan needs a more efficient and responsible local regime and a stronger parliament that balances the presidential power – yes, political structures for the opposition any government power must have. The establishment of a strong civil society is also an important premise for the democratisation process in Afghanistan. This, as the interpellant said, cannot be claimed from the outside, but the debate should be raised, and I felt that it is now living in many environments in the country. President Karzai's willingness to take concrete action must be expressed during the deployment ceremony in Kabul in two days' time. But words alone are not enough. The President and his next government must focus on achievements and achievement. Only this can restore confidence in the Afghan population and in the partners of Afghanistan. I experience a growing convergence in roadside assessments of the international community's efforts to build Afghan capacity and to invest more in training security forces such as police and army and training to master other key functions to govern a country like this. The question is how. It is agreed that future cooperation with Afghan authorities should focus on five main areas of action: strengthening Afghan sovereignty, institution building, economic development, peace and reintegration and a more effective regional policy understanding the role of Afghanistan in the region. Afghan authorities and the international community must come out with committed cooperation in these areas – yes, we must achieve a quite different commitment, where we can hold each other responsible and better follow developments, in terms of how both sides – the Afghan and the international – actually deliver. Prime Minister Gordon Brown, together with his French and German colleagues, has taken the initiative of an international conference in the New Year, which is to establish such accountability. The objective will be to draw up the framework for the transfer of ever-increasing responsibilities from the international community to the Afghan authorities. The conference must be more focused and concrete than was the case at the conferences we have had in Paris, London and The Hague. We are constantly repeating the need for better coordination among donors. Special Representative Kai Eide makes a formidable effort and reaps legitimate recognition. At the same time, the UN is striving to secure enough resources and personnel to play this role. The attack on the United Nations Guesthouse in Kabul is making the United Nations more vulnerable. We must hope that the slowdown of the presence will be temporary. The work of the UN is also important for the efforts of the international voluntary organisations and the diplomatic presence. But the coordination function needs to be strengthened. I notice that the question of a separate civil coordinator among the ISAF contributors is being discussed again. As a significant source, Norway will take an active part in this discussion on how to strengthen coordination without depriving Afghan authorities of responsibility and without combining military and civil mandates. The Afghans themselves must intervene in the work of reintegration and reconciliation. After decades of war, Afghan society must try to settle the past. «We have gone beyond justice» was the message from representatives of civil society that I met last week. We see it as a pattern; the country is held as linked to ethnic, social and clan-based struggles, with your power and influence to those who are referred to as warlords, but who in a more understandable language represent power centers with the ability and will to spite the central power. Or, to put it another way: the central power strives to balance Afghan power centers and conflicts constantly with expectations from its partners. This is a bad circle that has to be broken. It is essential to move forward with reintegration and reconciliation. There is greater transparency to identify schemes that introduce policy solutions with groups that are currently engaged in armed struggles, especially in the south and in relation to the Pashtun population. But some groups are opposed to reconciliation and integration and will actively counteract such progress. This applies in particular to al-Qaeda on the Pakistani and Afghan sides. But important parts of what we collectively call the Taliban can find a way out of armed rebellion and into political solutions, if it's facilitated. The Afghan security forces and ISAF face major challenges in ensuring the security of the population. This underpins General McChrystal's assessment of the need for new international strengths and the development of Afghan security forces. In my meeting with him he confirmed this vision. The main challenges remain in the southern and eastern regions bordering Pakistan, although we also notice a more demanding situation in the north. Both Afghanistan and Pakistan are fighting an existing fight against closely related rebel groups. It would be a considerable advance if the countries made each their fight for more of a common strategic effort. I have no doubt that our own security is affected by the outcome of this fight. It is therefore essential that we and our ISAF partners demonstrate the ability to adapt their efforts to the needs, and reaffirm the impression that we are at Afghanistan in this critical phase. McChrystal calls for changes in the way ISAF operates. Instead of defeating insurgent forces, he proposes increasing focus on the protection of the Afghan population, promoting good governance and a significant increase in Afghan security forces. I share the judgements McChrystal makes about twisting the military effort even more towards training Afghan forces, so that the country can be better able to take care of its own security. This is also Norway’s approach. The focus must also be on regional challenges. The neighbouring countries must be held responsible and included. We should counteract the impression that ISAF is a Western operation. Participation in the international efforts of new countries, including the Muslim population, should be encouraged. In other words, the situation is demanding. But we have to meet it, not turn away, because Afghanistan will be a dominant theme of international policy for many years to come. Uncertainty about the international presence will emanate the negative forces. There is no question of the presence, but of the device – the device of the military and civil contribution and of the Afghan follow-up. Everything is, as the interpellant said, not quite black either, because let's not forget the starting point: the ruin of Afghanistan lay in after three decades of war and conflict. Conditions have improved in a wide range of areas from health to infrastructure, but needs remain high. Measurements of opinion among Afghans suggest progress. The serious security situation is the main concern, but a large majority of Afghans still want international military presence. So our task is to arrange the presence so that it actually contributes to security and not to the opposite, which is a source of rebellion and resistance. It is nothing less than what the current debate is about. Norway has an established position in Afghanistan. I experienced that during my visit. We will stand by our commitments, and we will not forget why we are there: in order to contribute to countering what a unanimous UN Security Council through repeated cross-roads has called a threat to regional and international stability and security. We further develop our support with focus on training and capacity building. Norway will continue to focus its efforts on education, in particular higher education, urban development, energy issues, human rights and, in particular, women's rights, and the fight against corruption. Norway is a significant contributor, both civil and military. In Kabul last week the Norwegian aid also benefited from the recognition of the ISAF manager. At the same time, I made it clear that Norwegian aid is of course not unconditional: it requires much better Afghan achievement. In the light of the Afghan and international review of the efforts in Afghanistan, the Government, after the elections, has also launched an internal review of our overall Afghanistan exposure. Our starting point is that civil and military engagement should be maintained. We must live up to the commitments we have made to the UN Security Council, NATO and Afghan authorities – yes, to the Afghan people. At the same time, we must assess whether the device is correct. In the light of our review and the thorough discussions currently in progress, it may be natural to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive presentation in the New Year. Finally, let me again express the Government's recognition and honor to Norwegian women and men in uniform and in civil, humanitarian and diplomatic missions in Afghanistan. They make a significant effort, and they have our full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e529	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and I have no problem joining in on everything essential, not to say everything that was pulled out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and not least the last thing that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said about the efforts of the Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. It's important to bring it with us. The Foreign Minister also said that our security is affected by what is happening in Afghanistan. That opinion also fully shares the view of the Party of Advancement. The meaning of bringing this interpellation into the Storting today is not about waving away from the commitment to Afghanistan, but rather about looking at the device of it, and discussing how it can get better. I believe that we must have a will for pragmatic solutions – the foreign minister himself was involved – and that is what we must also see in Afghanistan. I fully agree that we must deal with Karzai, and we must look forward to it. We have to deal with the authorities we have – they are the only legitimate authorities we have. I think the Foreign Minister is interested in something when he talks about the institutional structure in Afghanistan. It is an obvious problem that many ethnic groups in a country have few common denominators and have little perceived themselves as part of a common project. This is being exploited in the strongest possible way. This regional structure is demanding. Responsibilities of neighbouring countries are important. If the challenges in Pakistan are not as great as in Afghanistan, they are at least formidable. I still think it's important to get hold of them. Then you also have to include countries like India, Russia and, of course, China because they play a big role. At least not all of these states – not to point to any particular, I will be diplomatically – have taken full responsibility for their development in Afghanistan. These countries are also affected today in one way or another by developments in Afghanistan. That's why it's so important to discuss this. So to hold the government in charge of Afghanistan, be concrete, and put away part of the polite phrases. There is no doubt that we must be directly in contact with our Afghan partners when we experience that funds do not reach, when we experience that human rights are being set aside, and when we experience that they do not do their part of the job. If we're to defend our commitment to our citizens, who send soldiers, and who send taxes, we also have to do a job on the other side. I also see that there is a broad consensus on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e544	There's a lot of angles to attack this problem from. So I think a starting point is that anyone who analyses the situation sees that Afghanistan cannot be left to itself. They are not there today that they have government, security institutions, police and army that allow them to take care of their own security. The situation is still too uncertain and the regional dimension is crucial. I think, as I learned through talks in Kabul, that as long as there is an uncertainty about where Afghanistan will go, it seems strengthening to the countries around, ensuring itself against what might be a possible outcome of the current conflict. This is not least the case in the conflict in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where old thinking that an unstable Afghanistan is actually serving the countries around it, for various complex reasons, is a direct obstacle to the success of what we are trying to achieve after the UN Security Council resolutions. That's why you can discuss what's most dangerous today, Afghanistan or Pakistan. It really doesn't serve any purpose to bring one forward rather than the other. It's very complex both, and it's going on, as I said, an almost existential battle in both countries right now. Then it's about taking responsibility for the government in Afghanistan. I agree with the inter-pellant. But it has to be done in a way that respects the responsibility of the government. I am sceptical that many of my colleagues these days come to Kabul with long lists of names they want out of government, and lists of names they want into government. The Afghan laconic comment about it is that the quality of the people they want to bring in is not very much better than the quality of the people they want out, if it's about being involved in transactions that don't tolerate the light of day in our country. In other words, there is a broader process of how Afghanistan is held responsible, how Afghan institutions evolve, how to get into a regime that is not just based on these old power structures that still exist. I believe that Norway, through, as I said, its civil and military presence has the position to take an active part in that debate – I experienced it during my visit, and also in conversations with colleagues in the ISAF family – and we will be participating in it in the future. The Minister of Defence has been at the NATO Defence Minister's meeting. I have the Foreign Minister's meeting in NATO in two weeks, where this is going to be very central. I noticed that the representative, Høglund, felt that President Obama was asking questions and not dealing. I agree with the first, but I do not entirely agree with the second. I believe that absolutely crucial here is that the President shows the willingness to ask those questions outright so that the decision becomes correct, and that it takes time, is an expression that it is complex. And then it's actually better to have a president who asks before he acts, than that President Höglund might have more sense for, the one who acted before he asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e558	As the President explained at the outset, the Stortinget will now give the floor to the Council of State Grete Faremo, pursuant to the fifth paragraph of Section 50 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e561	The Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan is now in approx. 500 soldiers, after the special forces completed their period of deployment on 1 October. The majority of our military contribution is in Meymaneh and Mazar-e Sharif in North Afghanistan. In Faryab we lead a stabilisation team, a so-called PRT, in Meymaneh, and we have a training team for the Afghan army, an OMLT. The Norwegian soldiers are making a solid effort, and the Norwegian forces are receiving very good feedback from ISAF and the Afghans. I am very grateful and proud of the great efforts our soldiers make. Earlier this year the Government adopted a strategy for a Norwegian overall effort in the Faryab province. The main objective is to help build Afghan capacity and ownership. On the military side, the main focus is to train and support the Afghan army. Norwegian forces will eventually also have a greater role to play in relation to the Afghan police. We must be the drivers of the transfer of leadership responsibility for security to the Afghan authorities in Faryab. I share the Foreign Minister's assessment of the security and political situation in Afghanistan. The assessment fits well with the picture drawn by COMISAF in its report. The broad lines of NATO’s adjusted approach are in line with the main device of the Norwegian Faryab strategy. General McChrystal points to the need to improve the ability of Afghans to take responsibility for their own security. This is positive with Norwegian eyes. McChrystal has also called for increased focus on the protection of the Afghan population. Mr McChrystal, that is to say Mr COMISAF, underlines the need for greater civil effort and also commends the efforts of Special Representative Kai Eide. This is positive. There must be a clear division of roles between civil and military efforts, but at the same time these instruments must be well coordinated. The effort must support Afghan development plans and be coordinated with international and national priorities in order to support best efforts to ensure the development and security of individuals and society. An important task for ISAF is to ensure security for the Afghan people and thereby build trust among people. COMISAF is working to transform and streamline the work of ISAF. He wants better coordination of efforts. This includes, inter alia: an ongoing reorganisation of the ISAF headquarters and the establishment of a separate NATO training mission for Afghan security forces. Strengthening the capacity of the Afghan army and the Afghan police is essential for the stability and security of the Afghan authorities themselves. McChrystal therefore recommends increasing the military’s strength target from 134 000 to 240 000 personnel and the Afghan police from 82 000 to 160 000 personnel. Financing such a structure will be a major challenge for the international community. From the Norwegian side, we have promised to contribute 20 million. USD to support the Afghan army in 2010. This is a significant contribution. Our PRT in Faryab has been continuously adapted to operational needs, changes in the security situation and new tasks since we assumed responsibility in 2005. We will continue to adapt to address the increased need for training, partnership and support to Afghan security forces. The aim is that Afghan forces are increasingly able to carry out and conduct operations on their own, and are gradually able to take responsibility for security itself. In my view, this is the only way to go to ensure that international efforts lead to something that is sustainable in the long term. At the same time, I would like to be very clear that such increased focus on training, training and support of Afghan security forces is expensive, demanding and risky. We will stand in the middle of the battle with the Afghans even more than is the case today. Focusing on training and support for Afghan security forces, so that they themselves can create peace and stability in their own country, is also essential in order for us to be able to reduce the international military presence in the long term. Of course, we will not be standing in Afghanistan one day longer than necessary, and the military presence must be gradually stepped down and gradually withdrawn when it is proper to leave security responsibility to the Afghans themselves. It was assumed that next summer Afghan forces would be able to take greater responsibility for the security of Faryab. This was based on an expectation of increased presence of Afghan security forces and forces from other ISAF nations as well as an improved security situation in the area. However, these assumptions have recently changed. Therefore, the Afghan authorities are no longer considered to be able to assume the safety responsibilities of Faryab according to the original timetable. The reason for this is, among other things: recent significant deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan. In the south and east, the situation is particularly challenging and forces COMISAF to concentrate forces in this area. This will have a direct impact on the Norwegian forces, because neither an increase in the ANA forces nor in the US forces will be carried out to Faryab. Norwegian and Afghan forces are now in conflict with rebel groups up to several times a week. The security situation in the Ghowrmach district has long been marked by conflicts and lack of authority and is now very demanding. Norwegian and Afghan forces in Faryab are thus facing a significant safety challenge in the future. This is regrettable, but I also agree with COMISAF that the security situation is more critical in the south and east. I expressed this at NATO's informal Minister of Defence meeting in Bratislava at the end of October, but at the same time underlined the need for ISAF to maintain a capacity to support us in Faryab, whose situation there is becoming critical. A prerequisite for carrying out demanding operations in Faryab and in Ghowrmach is the necessary helicopter support for medical evacuation. Such capacity is essential to ensure the security of Norwegian, Allied and Afghan security forces. The government decided in April this year to continue the Norwegian helicopter contribution to October next year. If the safety situation is not significantly improved, further extension of the helicopter contribution would have to be considered. The safety situation in northern Afghanistan suggests that it is necessary to continue the Norwegian contribution at approximately the current level. We will adapt our strength contributions based on changes in the security situation and operational needs. Such adjustments are closely coordinated with NATO. As I explained in the Questionnaire, it is now planned that the device of PRT Meymaneh will be adapted from summer 2010. A partner unit with the necessary support will perform many of the same functions as the current infantry unit, but focusing on partnering with Afghan security forces. This involves operating with Afghan forces in field operations to ensure that they are as secure as possible. In the light of our own review and the thorough discussions currently taking place between the ISAF partners and the Afghan authorities, the Government will submit a proposal to the Swedish Government for New Year’s Storting dealing with these adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e589	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I want to focus on a couple of relationships. The new strategy that McChrystal has outlined involves, as I have understood, briefly saying that the international forces are much more out of the population of Afghanistan and provide them with security, and to a lesser extent – once again to put it all on the verge – is closing in. To what extent does the Minister of Defence see agreement, understanding and acceptance among the ISAF partners on such a strategy? Because it will probably mean something in terms of which soldiers you send and how you operate, and there is a huge difference between some of the countries that are present today. Will the Minister of Defence say anything about the level of Norwegian military involvement? This has been commented on, not least in connection with the fact that the Stoltenberg government continued in the government offices and we got Soria Moria II, where there were formulations that created some uncertainty about this. It is therefore okay for the Minister of Defence to determine what is the current policy there. Then the situation, which we have been faced with before in this debate, is that the conflict in Pakistan obviously also affects what is happening in Afghanistan. In order for the international military operation to function in Afghanistan, it is dependent on obtaining different types of supplies into the country. Will the Minister of Defence say something about how developments in Pakistan affect this part of the work in Afghanistan, and how has it been sought to resolve this in order to ensure that the international forces can deliver fully in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e600	As I explained in my first post, it was strongly expressed by the COMISAF during the informal Minister of Defence meeting that I attended in Bratislava, an increased focus on the security of the local population. At that time, the various NATO countries and participants in the ISAF operation had also had the opportunity to review the COMISAF report. My impression from the meeting was that there was broad support for the approach proposed. Even as regards the level of the Norwegian strength contribution, I can confirm, as I have already said, that it will continue at about the same level in 2010. But of course we are discussing the device both in the light of developments in the security situation, in the light of the capacity of the Afghan army and in the light of the international forces, not least the US forces, stationed in Afghanistan. And I tried to explain how the recent developments we have seen have made it necessary also to redefine the Norwegian effort. We've been discussing for a long time how we can build Afghan capacity, and what's pleasing is how this strategy, too, gets increased internationalization. Only by building increased capacity on the Afghan side can one expect that they themselves are able to take care of their security. We therefore build this into our efforts in the time that comes, through these so-called OMLTs and in other ways where we go into partnership positions with the Afghan forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e610	I want to give Høglund's representative credit for making his interpellation turn into an open question. There is now time for assessments of the situation and developments. The conclusions regarding our own contributions must be drawn later. The task in Afghanistan is to help Afghans build a society where the common Afghans can have faith and hope for a future where everyday life will be both better and safer. After eight years of extensive military and civil efforts by the international community, we see two main features of development. In many areas a lot of positive has happened. 85 pst. a health service is provided by the population, albeit simple. In 2001 it was 8 pst. In 2001, no girls got school, now there are 2.5 million girls in classrooms. Opium production has been reduced by 22 pst. I want to call it a little bit more than ‘gliding’, as the representative Høglund called it. There's a lot of hope in this development. On the other hand, the safety situation is significantly worse. This also threatens to remove the carpet from the progress achieved in health care, education and village development. But equally serious is the lack of solid progress in political development and within what I would call institutional infrastructure, especially locally. The presidential election is obsessed with cheating, which may weaken both the president and the future government authority. This is why it is also being met with strong demands on the fight against corruption, on improving security, economic growth and respect for human rights and the position and rights of women. But as the representative Høglund and the Minister for Foreign Affairs reflected around, this is a balance sheet. The elected president must not be seen as a puppet to the outside world. His policy must have Afghan anchoring. If not, the Afghanization will not succeed. We cannot, as Mr Höglund stressed, force the Afghans to develop which is not wanted. Nevertheless, our support rests on some basic prerequisites, as the Foreign Minister stressed. And I think this debate will show that there is broad support for this in the Stortinget. The international support shall be a support. The international community cannot assume the responsibility of a government for its country and its people. The forthcoming government must demonstrate a clear willingness to meet the basic needs of the Afghan people. These include security. It is in line with the demands many – including our own government – have expressed. It is a necessity to overcome the crisis of confidence that is growing among its population. It gives too strong a ground for recruitment to the rebel forces. There is a need to change what is being done in Afghanistan. There is a need for Afghanisation, both of development and of responsibility for security and security. And our efforts must build up under it in different ways. There is also a need for better coordination between the tasks of each country and between civil and military action. This is also in line with what Norway has long claimed. These included: a red thread in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Stortinget on 5 February 2008. One of the most worrying features is that there are still many groupings in the country who obviously believe that their interests are best served by attacking the system rather than by working through the political system. It weakens the hope of a more stable political development and the potential to strengthen institutional structures. This, of course, also makes the Afghan Government's task of overcoming mistrust and disappointment over the lack of progress more difficult. I agree that our extensive military and civil engagement in Afghanistan should be maintained. We should not be running away from the commitments we have given to the UN Security Council, NATO and the Afghan authorities, but we must also demand better results and better coordination. I think it makes sense, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs suggested, that he is coming out to the Stortinget in the new year with a statement that could allow for an even wider debate on developments in Afghanistan than this interpellence debate provides. Then also many of the pieces that are not in place today will be in place, and we will have a better basis for assessing where the progress is, and how we can best help it to move in the right direction in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e636	The military situation in Afghanistan is challenging. The US President, Obama, has launched a new strategy for Afghanistan that involves a new approach to the military challenges in that country. Obama wants to increase the number of soldiers in the area in order to carry out a more targeted and more concerted effort. NATO's challenges are still high, and there are major challenges in terms of joint military efforts and the disposal of strength contributions. Here Norway has the opportunity to be a driver within NATO to ensure better coordination of efforts in Afghanistan. In this context, the Progress Party expects Norway to take the initiative to contribute with appropriate forces and to ease the restrictions on Norwegian forces today on participation in efforts geographically in Afghanistan. In the civil field too, major challenges are facing in Afghanistan. Here I want to talk about something that takes me very seriously: women's challenges and their right to participate. Earlier this year, the disputed Shia Act entered into force in the country. The law, which covers almost 20 pst. by the citizens of Afghanistan, places great restrictions on women’s right to work, parental rights and sexual health. Although the final law did not become as restrictive as the original draft, the elements that put work on women’s rights in the country far back. Some organisations go as far as accusing President Karzai of selling Afghan women in a political horse trade in order to gain prominence among the country's Shia minority. It is clear that there are strong forces who want to keep women down when such a law gets a majority in Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence met yesterday, Monday, with six members of the US Congress who had just been to Afghanistan and spoke with both parliamentarians and NGOs. There was some improvement in tracking, they claimed, when it came to women's participation in political life, and Norway was boasting of its efforts in this area. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go, especially in the case of women's and girls' turnarounds, which are some of the UN's Millennium Goals, and on which Norway should focus, in particular in view of our contribution to building Afghan civil society. That you expose little girls to stoning and go into attacks at schools that train girls is also something we should take a great distance from. You should focus on this when you are in dialogue with President Karzai and his government. To build a democratic society, it must also include women's rights in terms of health, education and participation in politics. The path that Afghanistan has chosen to take to introduce a Shia Act violates fundamental fundamental human rights. Norway should take a clear distance from this. On 22 January 2008, Afghan journalist Sayed Pervez Kambaksh was sentenced to death for distributing material that addresses women’s rights in Afghanistan. Although this judgment has now been revised and Kambaksh released, it reveals the challenges it faces in terms of protecting women's rights in particular and human rights in general. It is therefore important and right for Norway to continue to be a driving force behind the violation of fundamental human rights in the forums in which we participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e647	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to have this discussion in Stortinget. Our starting point is that we participate in Afghanistan because it is in our interest. We participate in international efforts with both civil and military instruments. To achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the long term, we need to create stability by building a somewhat functioning state with an acceptable degree of legitimacy across the country. It is also an objective in itself for Norwegian international engagement to contribute to security, stability and development as well as to remedy the extremely difficult humanitarian situation in large parts of the country. To the extent that a legitimately stable Afghan government with a functioning state apparatus, police and military service – a state of justice – is also democratic, it is a plus, but we simply cannot expect a regime of democratic Western model as we see it. This is a pre-industrial society in Central Asia. The aim must be to enable the Afghans to decide their own future, to take responsibility for their own security. To the extent that we can work to influence that development in the positive direction, we'll do it. The Afghanisation, which many people are talking about, is also about legitimation. The main challenge is not necessarily the strength of the Taliban, but the weakness of the Afghan state. The West must show a degree of humility over how to build an Afghan state. During the opening of the UN General Assembly in New York, President Obama said that «we must not allow the perfect to become the enemy of progress». I think that's worth remembering. The situation now in Afghanistan is very difficult. The Taliban are on the march, and the Allies are largely waiting for the United States to adopt a strategy. The Karzai regime is weak, it's caught with a high degree of corruption, and it's also unpopular after the election. This means, among other things: the need to impose even more stringent anti-corruption, transparency and the construction of State institutions. There is reason to be very disappointed with Karzai's handling of the election and that extensive electoral fraud has taken place. The US Secretary of State announced yesterday that freezing aid to Afghanistan could be timely if it cannot be certified that the money goes through government agencies responsible for the use of money. The United States also requires the establishment of a court of major crime and a commission against corruption. In general, the United States now seems to be tightening the tone and demands of the Afghan government. Norway should fully support this. It is an essential point that the pressure on Karzai and the regime should not just come from the United States. But there are also some points of light. The Afghan Parliament is felt to be relatively functioning, and that is a certain hope attached to it. At the same time, of course, it is a challenge that the balance of power between Parliament and the government is not even. A strong parliament has not been usual, and that also means, for example, that. laws adopted are not always complied with. Furthermore, it is absolutely essential to bring down the civil losses. There are signs of improvement in this area, especially after the introduction of clearer guidelines for the use of power. This applies in particular to the use of aircraft support, which was the same as for most civilian Afghans. Nevertheless, the civil losses resulting from attacks by insurgents are actually increasing. It has, among other things, Coherence with increased activity of the Taliban in some regions. It is also positive that much more children and young people, especially girls, receive schooling and that access to basic health services is improved. But I think General McChrystal's report is pointing the way forward. It's not a simple road, and it's not an harmless road. It's also going to expose soldiers to greater risk. But it's also dangerous to hesitate too long to choose a strategy. According to McChrystal, there are in principle twelve months to see an improvement in Afghanistan; an improved situation for the Afghans. If the West continues to show signs of disembarkation with the Taliban, of course, it will lead to Afghans sitting on the fence and fearing a new meeting with the Taliban regime. The interaction between security and development is central. It is also important that the Norwegian model, which operates with nearly watertight shots between civil and military efforts, poses challenges for the overall effort of Norway. The Norwegian model should be reviewed and evaluated. Civil and military engagement must be better coordinated. The Dutch have done so and have placed their PRT under civil command. They have a fully integrated civil-military operation. Their mantra for the operation is that it should be as civil as possible and as military as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e668	I believe that everyone who has followed Afghanistan and the situation there sees that developments in security have not gone in the right direction. On the contrary, it has gone in a completely wrong direction lately. Then I think that what we must have as the starting point for the discussion, and that is the starting point for the discussion by SV, is that we must always have a clear vision of what is important: what is right for Afghanistan? What is right for civil and political development in Afghanistan to go in the right direction? We must have that as a goal and focus on it in any debate on Afghanistan, rather than what I have experienced in the past has been a mantra, namely that NATO must first of all be involved in what we ask for there, in pure NATO solidarity, regardless of whether we believe that what we do contributes to peace and security. Such an attitude seems to me to be completely absent from the debate today, and I am very pleased with what the representative of Höglund addressed in his interpellation, namely that we have to do what actually works. Then, with the clear rounds that have gone around the elections now, I believe that the development of democracy is not satisfactory in any way. We see it when it comes to corruption, which has been up. The security of the regular Afghan must be the most important thing, rather than going after the Taliban. If we look at what was at the bottom of the Soria Moria I statement, we'll see that it was clear that we were going to withdraw from Operation Enduring Freedom, while we were going to do more to support the civil development of the original ISAF mandate. I think this is what's important to look at as a strategy for further work. We've been busy with this all along. In the past, we have received strong criticism of parts of the opposition for, among other things, us. drew us out of Operation Enduring Freedom. Now I see that what is said by General McCrystal is that there must be the need for civil development for the individual Afghans that must be the most important thing. It's a turn that we end up on in the Soria Moria II statement, because that's where we go. There we say that civil security and further development are crucial. We must contribute to the training of Afghan forces because it is important to ensure that Afghans themselves are able to take care of their own development. Our clear message is that the UN will have an ever stronger place. The multilateral organisations that are absolutely crucial. Looking back on developments and summarizing what was the beginning of its time, when one country was responsible for the construction of the police, one for the law and one for the army, I think it was a misguided strategy. And once again, the importance of the United Nations in the country needs to be strengthened, and I now see that there is a broad consensus in Norway. What is happening in Afghanistan, and what is happening in all the countries participating in Afghanistan, both civil and military, is that people are not stupid – neither the Afghan people nor people in the participating countries. In Afghanistan, people are disappointed. It is documented in some reports. For every civilian who is killed, people feel the aliens to a greater extent as occupants and, to a lesser extent, as guarantors of peace and development – in short, as allies. For every Taliban soldier killed, it is an Afghan who loses a father, a son, a cousin, or a brother, and thus new Taliban soldiers are also born. For every time we talk loudly about democracy and against corruption, and people experience that there is electoral fraud, and that there are clear signs of corruption, people in Afghanistan also lose confidence in us who are trying to contribute to a positive development. This is also the case in the different participating countries. Several of us sitting here come straight from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In several countries, among others: in the United Kingdom and the United States, the failure of NATO participation among the population is high. Several countries set clear deadlines for when they intend to withdraw their soldiers. This is not primarily due to the fact that we, as politicians, are bad at pointing out that development is moving in the right direction. It is primarily due to the fact that parts of the development are clearly heading in the wrong direction. What has been the position of the Norwegian Government in the last four years, which I believe is very correct, and with which the Government continues to work, is precisely focusing on civil development, civil security, strengthening civil society and parliament and democratic institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e681	Since 11 September 2001, we have lived in a world where forces have constantly tried to put cultural and religious conflicts at the forefront. Here at home, the debate on the inequalities between cultures has also solidified. Trying to understand has almost been ridiculed. The debate on the differences between cultures has been marked by absolutes. This has not least marked the debate on Islam – a flat debate on Islam in the West has not helped to increase the intellectual ballast that actors in Afghanistan need. Our actors need to understand complexity, not just for their own profession, in order to do a good job. We have to deal with the fact that many Afghans believe that we are not invited. If we are to succeed, it is of great importance that we listen to experienced civil voices. It is also a crossroads in the Norwegian Afghanistan debate that the Afghan voices are almost completely absent. Norway has a long tradition of driving development through civil, not military, means. As the colonial grip eased the mindset, Norwegian aid developed towards stimulating local ownership. Our participation in Afghanistan is new to us, but our tradition makes it natural to view the military as an instrument to support overall and governing civil goals. The military is subordinate; they are there to create peace and stability so that others can build a society and create development. Far from all of us agree, and one of the reasons why we are now struggling to achieve good enough results after eight years in Afghanistan, is perhaps that Norway's allies have very different historical ballasts to build on. Historically, the colonist entered, took over a society and created it in his image – if we want to. When he left, it was often chaos, and society had to be rebuilt. It wasn't the community of the locals he left behind, it was a foreign construction. The colonist never had to acquire very great cultural insight or understanding of the society he had entered. During the last presidential period in the United States – with Bush's rhetoric – there was little room for nuances and little room for questions, but there were very many exact answers. Political practice did not allow for cultural and religious understanding. It was a rhetoric and a policy that built up conflicts instead of helping to solve them. Unfortunately, we have seen results of this in Iraq, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Palestine. Today there is a new administration in the United States — with new tones and a more open attitude, where questions are also allowed. There are many questions we also need to ask ourselves in relation to our strategy in Afghanistan in order to create a stable and good society over time. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we need to unite on the goal of a stable society, on Afghan premises, where the breadth of society must form part of reconciliation. That's the solution. Our commitment to Afghanistan commits. The choice we made eight years ago has produced results, but experience suggests that military instruments alone are not building a stable society over time. The current situation in Afghanistan suggests that Norway, and we in the Grand Duchy, must be willing to send Norwegian soldiers to the area to ensure stability, provide security, and thus also provide room for building a civil society that can sustain it over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e698	Developments in Afghanistan are one of the main security policy challenges facing the world community. It is the largest military involvement in which Norway participates, partly because we see it as an expression of international solidarity, and partly because it is in our security policy interest that the situation there is stabilising in a way that reduces the risk that it may once again become a haven for international terrorism. That is why I too would like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for coming with the interpellation and Foreign Minister Gahr Støre, for an answer that I believe most of the House will join the main lines. At least I could do that on behalf of us in the Christian People's Party. Developments in Afghanistan are complex. In the southern part of the country and near the border with Pakistan — in the area where the Pashtuns live and where the Taliban has had the most support — we have recently seen that Tabilan has partly returned. The safety situation has become more complicated in almost all of Afghanistan during the last year. It's serious. At the same time, positive results have been achieved in social and economic development. The school sentence has been expanded — girls can go to school again in many places — and the health service is considerably expanded, but from a very frightful point of view. The road network is under development, but traffic is unsafe due to the risk of attack and road bombing. Economic developments are characterised by large foreign aid efforts and some foreign investment, including: from China, but the life situation of Afghans is most marked by a poor security situation. Too many are directly or indirectly affected by the acts of war. It is also very regrettable that the political process has not been a success so far. The election this year was marked by some unusual types of alliance buildings, but more serious is the extent of all the fraud and corruption that seems to go high in Karzai's government circles. After the second round of elections was canceled and President Karzai declared the winner, it is now important that he assembles a government with confidence both internally and abroad. If there is no reasonably credible government to cooperate with, it will be very difficult and perhaps not just to maintain a high international presence. The dilemma is that if the international community is now moving out of the military, we will be at risk of a new bloody civil war in Afghanistan, we will be at risk of the Taliban resuming power in large parts of the country. There is no desired development. But there is also no desired development we see now. This places great demands on the Afghan authorities, on the Pakistani authorities and on the international community. But with a coordinated strategy, we can help turn development into better. Many ask how. I think the answer must go along these lines: Afghanistan needs a new and credible government with broad support in place. Corruption must be combated and the political process improved. Social and economic efforts need to be coordinated in order to improve resource use and to make the results clearer for most people. The military strategy needs to be changed in such a way that there is a greater degree of protection for the population and a reduction in the number of civilians affected by the acts of war. With the increasing capacity building on the Afghan side, responsibility for security tasks can be gradually transferred to the Afghans themselves. There's probably no quick fix. Requirements for the immediate withdrawal of foreign forces may have unintended consequences. Increasing Afghanisation must be central to a renewed strategy that can provide a peaceful and forward-looking solution, for the benefit of both Afghanistan and the world community. It is also our responsibility to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e711	Sometimes we hear questions like: Why is NATO in Afghanistan, why is Norway in Afghanistan, or why are Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan? We are in Afghanistan because the UN and the world community and the Afghans have asked for it. Let's not forget that. Afghanistan was governed by a cruel regime, or it is probably more correct to say regimes, in majority, which both harmed the Afghan population and could be a potential security risk to the international community, including Norway. Because the Afghans needed help, we joined our allies in the NATO ISAF force. Yes, not only our traditionally allied NATO countries contribute. A number of non-NATO countries participate in ISAF. Let me mention Sweden, Finland, Australia and New Zealand as some of them. In total, more than 40 countries participate in the ISAF force. Australia is actually one of the very largest contributors, larger than many NATO countries. Like others in the Chamber, I have just returned from the autumn session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and was delighted to meet colleagues from both NATO countries and from Sweden, Australia and others who contribute to ISAF. It strikes you that these are the same issues, these are the same dilemmas, and it's the same assessments that everyone in ISAF is facing today. Let me also take this opportunity to thank the Norwegian soldiers and civilian, humanitarian and diplomatic personnel who have served or served in Afghanistan for their efforts. They need all the support and support they can get from the international community, including from the Norwegian economy. There is often a focus on what is not going well in Afghanistan, but let's not forget that it actually happens very positively. Health provision is significantly improved, more children are offered vaccination, roads and other infrastructure are built, a greater part of the population is now secured by clean water, schools are being built – including girls, who were not allowed to go to school under the previous regime – universities are being built, and opium production is significantly reduced. All in all, many things go in the right direction, sail for other things go the other way. This is a contribution to the fact that the Afghans, in terms of what is going positive, can gradually control themselves. The point must now be that the contribution of the large community must enable the Afghan authorities to ensure stability, security and development. There is a clear need for better coordination of civil and military efforts in Afghanistan. Cleaning is needed, as Norway also contributes, and it is right to be aware of what is military and what is civil action. But let's also be aware that pulling up sharp boundaries between military and civil efforts can be more difficult in the field in everyday life. We should understand that. That doesn't mean that I'm saying there shouldn't be any distinction between military and civil assistance, my point is that those who serve both civilly and militarily can come up with situations where those boundaries are difficult to draw. We need to understand that. So many ask the question, how long is the world society in Afghanistan going to be? The debate today has also shown that it is difficult to respond to it. In the same way as it should not be an objective to withdraw as quickly as possible, there should also be no objective of being there as far as possible. We have to be there until the Afghans are able to take over. That is what must be the objective of Norway's contribution to Afghanistan. We went into Afghanistan with NATO, and we're going to withdraw when that day had to come, with NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e728	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for the initiative to have this broad debate today – in a new big deal, in a new period. I think this debate is very, very timely. The question is also what we can do at home, on our own way home, to equip ourselves to care for our interests and our presence, military and civil. I think a lot of people here at home, not least, are concerned with the security that our personnel need to have an optimal level when they are present and serving the international community under the Norwegian flag. I think that when, in today's debate, the Minister of Defence refers to the fact that the situation is demanding and that the situation can become even more demanding, it is a timely stress. The Minister of Defence reiterates in the debate today the hope and desire that if the situation becomes even more demanding in the Faryab province, the ISAF force will maintain sufficient capacity to support us in the Faryab province, if necessary. Even I wish that in this area we could perhaps be clearer under the Norwegian flag and perhaps do our best to care for our own interests. We may have been somewhat evasive, to say it carefully, at the request of the new Secretary General Fogh Rasmussen that we should perhaps be prepared to stand up more militarily if the situation were to allow it – a situation that today suggests that it is going to be more demanding. The Minister of Defence also points out that Norwegian forces are in weekly conflict contact – others might use the word ‘war’ in such a context, but it only underlines the need for us to be a little more prepared to stand up militarily if the situation should change. So just a short visit to SV, which underlines today again in a very cryptic post that we don't have to be present just in pure NATO solidarity. Maybe you shouldn't expect anything else from a representative of a party that is opposed to NATO and most of the institution stands for? But I do not think SV should forget that it is a very clear UN mandate that is also a marshy land for Norway. When the representative Holmås says that ‘we have to do what actually works’, the counter-question has to be — yes, isn’t that exactly what we’re doing? The Socialist Left also refers to the fact that there is a lack of international uproar on the presence and activity in Afghanistan. On the Norwegian home track, the picture is quite different. There's an increased excitement about our presence, and there's an increased excitement about NATO. I fully agree with the emphasis on coordination. There is also a job for us in Norway, which is a heavyweight on aid, and which also underlines support and provides significant maximum support to organisations. It must not be the case that nations or organisations carry out their own agenda to a greater extent than they follow the instructions actually given by the United Nations. But we must always – in a difficult political debate and in a situation like this – ask the question: What is the option if we withdraw, and if others withdraw? The answer gives itself. It'll probably mean that everything we've done so far will be more or less wasted. The answer will be civil war, not between two parties, but between many, many parties. It will be a more uncertain world – chaos will be the end result. When 2.5 million girls go to school today towards roughly zero just a few years ago, reaches 85 pst. of Aghanistan population now has access to healthcare for almost none at the turn of the century, when 200 cities today have access to the Internet and mobile coverage, when child mortality is reduced by a quarter during this period, and 5 000 km of roadway is built, something in Afghanistan under the direction of the international community, with the UN and NATO at the head, must have gone very well. So we always have to ask ourselves, what is the alternative if we're not there?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e745	Norwegian contributions to and participation in Afghanistan are important and contribute to development. The main objective of the Norwegian involvement is to assist Afghan authorities in their responsibility to ensure stability, security and development. The Norwegian actors and soldiers are making a very important effort on behalf of Norway. The Minister of Defence said that training, training and support of Afghan security forces are expensive, demanding and risky, and demands that we stand in the middle of the conflict with the Afghans. The question we're all asking is whether it's desirable, and whether it's useful, and the answer is yes to both questions. Aggravated security situation and multiple combat actions have led to several civilian deaths in Afghanistan. About 1,900 people were killed in 2008. The UN and humanitarian actors are also at risk. Increasingly, they have become targets for the armed actions of the rebel groups – 36 aid workers were killed, and 120 direct attacks or threats to NGOs have been registered in 2008. It is also estimated that approx. 40 pst. of the areas in Afghanistan are inaccessible to them. Food crisis and drought caused the production of wheat to fall by 85 p.m. and affected children and mothers. Malnutrition is an increasing problem, and the food crisis continues to be referred to as Afghanistan's most serious humanitarian problem. So ask someone in this situation: shouldn't we get out soon? Then I would say, we have to be, and we want to be in Afghanistan, and we have to be aware that this can mean a long time of presence. That's why I think it's too early to talk about an exit strategy. Why do I mean that? Yes, because the Afghan people are the ones who have to come out victorious, but also because instability in Afghanistan makes it more unsafe here at home. Therefore, the solution in Afghanistan is not either ‘several soldiers to Afghanistan’ or ‘get the troops home’. No, the real measure of whether we succeed or not is the extent to which we can build society stone by stone in near alliance with the Afghans themselves. For it is the Afghans themselves who must take responsibility for the permanent political solution, and this takes time. Norway contributes so many ways. Education and healthcare will continue to be a key field of civil action. Everything starts there. The Norwegian military presence will be gradually further developed to enable Afghan security forces to take responsibility for security themselves. This is important. Strengthening the police and the prison sector in Afghanistan is due to the strengthening of the Afghan army. A well-functioning police and justice system is crucial, and Norway has increased its contribution. Mines and class weapons I could say a lot about. There are 1.7 million registered refugees in Pakistan and about 1 million in Iran. A great deal of effort is being made for these refugees with Norwegian support. It is also important to spend a lot of resources on resettlement and reintegration. Of course, it's also related to the available land that you clear for mines. Human rights are under pressure in Afghanistan. A strong democracy must be built from below. If there's anything that worries me, it's that democracy doesn't get permanent parties in Afghanistan. The judicial system is weak, institutions are lacking, and corruption is flooding. Women and children lack fundamental rights. To set the Afghans free means to create a real democracy on their premises. It is important to demand that President Karzai address it. We will not succeed in a solution without Afghanistan’s neighbouring country – a solution that must provide lasting stability in the region. The world cannot live with failure in Afghanistan this time – at least the Afghan people. It requires a comprehensive strategy with both political, military, humanitarian and developmental instruments. I fully agree with the Minister of Defence on this point. I also agree with the Minister for Defence that the efforts have been fragmented and too short-sighted so far. This needs to be addressed through the international community, and Norway has been and must also be a driving force for better coordination and coordination. We have to take over and prepare for – both here and the Norwegian people – that it will take time in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e771	Norway is in Afghanistan because it is in Norwegian and Afghan interest that we are there. Norway is in Afghanistan because the United States was attacked, and because there was a UN mandate that was ready for sun. Norway is in Afghanistan because a stable, secure and democratic Afghanistan is in the interests of the whole world. The international mission we now see in Afghanistan will have a huge price if we don't succeed. The country will return to a regime — or lack of government — where the Taliban and warlords hold the population hostage, and the threat to the rest of the world will be significant. Afghanistan will again be a haven for terrorists. In this debate, for which there is reason to praise the inter-pellant, and not least the two Councils of State for good and constructive answers, there is a need to focus on some of the positive developments seen since the end of 2001. More have indicated that 7 million young Afghans are now going to school. One third of those who are now educated are girls, and there are 3 500 new schools built. There is a strongly reduced infant mortality rate. 85 pst. – against previous 6 pst. – by the Afghan population, access to simple health services. It is designed or repaired as many as 13,000 km of roads, and we know that in order to bring about an economic development in Afghanistan, communication is essential. It is worth remembering that the last year the opium crops have been reduced by 20 pst. Nevertheless, most of it is reported from Afghanistan, which is negative. I have a great deal of understanding for that. Road bombs are simpler and more spectacular to show on television than road construction. Our citizens – and by that I mean all the country’s citizens with soldiers and civilian efforts in Afghanistan – must know that there are both positive and negative consequences of their presence. Without it, the support will disappear. I understand that the representative Holmås is drawing up that some countries now see their presence being perceived as more and more negative in their own population. However, it is problematic to focus more and more on the exit strategy, precisely because we know that the smooth Afghans are terrified of being left in the lurch, and see that the international presence disappears. I also find it problematic to see that Secretary of State Clinton on American television so clearly says that the United States will not be there forever, which I understand of course, but that also means that you link even more speculation to a possible exit strategy. Several have said well in the debate here earlier: Norway and the international community must be in Afghanistan until the Afghan security apparatus is able to deal with the situation on its own. There is reason to praise Dr. Abdullah for the way he handled the aftermath of the election. There is no doubt that the election was neither fair nor free, but at the same time there is no doubt that President Karzai got the most votes – and had certainly received the most votes in any other election round. But when Dr. Abdullah withdraws, he does so on the grounds of the Afghan people and the Afghan state and the fragile democracy that is actually built up. I hope that Dr. Abdullah will succeed in his efforts to bring together an opposition, and would like to see a powerful opposition, in the Afghan Parliament. If there is one thing Norway really has to contribute to, it is building up the idea that Afghanistan is not governed by one strong president, but by many, and by the whole population. Finally, I would just like to make a few comments on the current disagreement between the U.S. ambassador in Afghanistan and the head of ISAF, General McCrystal. I understand that there may be a number of different strategies that all possibly end up in what we call a success situation, where the international presence can be extracted, and the Afghan security situation has stabilised with the use of the Afghan security device. Let me end by saying, as NATO Secretary-General, that we must contribute vigorously now to reduce later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e788	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, for the interpellation. Norway's participation in Afghanistan is an important matter and one that needs to be discussed on a continuous basis. It is therefore quite timely to raise the question of whether Norway’s strategy in Afghanistan should be adjusted. Norway’s participation in Afghanistan is intended to lead to changes. That is precisely why we still need to assess the current situation and what needs to be done to achieve the objective of a peaceful and free Afghanistan. The debate on the strategy is taking place in a number of countries within NATO. I would like to point out that Norway should be a leading country and work to strengthen the role of the United Nations as a catalyst for a political solution. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also stressed that our task was to arrange the presence so that it actually contributed to security. He also pointed out that it could be natural to come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive presentation in the new year, which we would naturally like to welcome. The wording of Soria Moria II, ‘close dialogue with our allies, and in the light of developments in Afghanistan, it may become relevant to the gradual degression of our military engagement’, also implies, of course, a need for a continuous discussion of Norway’s strategy. It's problematic to be part of a warfare. It's problematic to see civilians killed in warfare and it increases. It is problematic that soldiers have been traumatized, injured and killed. Of course, it is problematic to be involved in an engagement that gets less support, as we see in several participating countries and in polls there. The aim, as I said, is a peaceful and free Afghanistan. SV believes that the main instrument for creating peace and freedom is civil engagement, negotiation and democracy building. More offensive warfare and more soldiers are not the solution. This has been tried for many years. Fortunately, although we have also seen a positive development, the years of warfare have in no way provided the solution. This may be a partial response to the challenge posed by the representative of Kristiansen. If you see that one medicine doesn't work, it doesn't help to put on more of the same medicine. You don't promote democracy, nor remove corruption, military. When we are going to participate in international war operations and in the ultimate consequence be willing to take life, we have to be sure that it works. To have a lasting peace, everyone must feel a responsibility. This can only be done through negotiations in which everyone participates. SV agrees with the UN mission, Kai Eide, that real peace negotiations mean that all parties must sit at the negotiating table, including the Taliban. An inclusive peace process in which all groups are invited to participate will make more people interested in strengthening the political process. Furthermore, it is important to contribute politically, inter alia, through: to support democratic processes in Parliament. It is essential that Parliament has real power and influence. Here it's 27 pst. women, and parliamentarians represent the people to a far greater extent than Karzai's own administration. Parliament must be included in resolutions. Strengthening the position of women in Afghanistan has been a strategy of engagement. I am pleased that the representative Woldseth focused on this in his post. SV believes that women must participate in all kinds of peace negotiations and reconciliation processes – regional and local negotiations, NATO countries' discussions with Karzai and negotiations with the Taliban and other actors. Norway may require the presence of women and may address this issue in NATO. Another point might be the possibility of channelling financial resources to women through the Ministry of Women’s Affairs. It will give the department more power and influence and give a better assurance that the money actually benefits women. So the need for civil development is crucial. Assistance, democracy building and training are important elements in which Norway is to contribute further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e808	In this debate I can join almost everything that has been said. There must be some considerations from the SV representatives that I might have to put some question marks on. Just to take it first: the representative Holmås says he's happy that we're not in the situation that we're just jumping NATO says jump – I'm rewording. The opposite situation has been the case for SV for a long time. When NATO said jump, SV decided – in any case – not to jump. But the fact that we can have a pragmatic and tidy approach is okay. I mean the historical presentation that was given by the civil engagement and Enduring Freedom, which Holmås was in on, does not hold, but it is possible we remain in disagreement about it. The Chairman of the Committee was in the midst of an important issue related to what we can expect from Afghanistan. What are we going to do, and what is realistic? I fully agree with those considerations, of course. The challenge is, of course, when we see setbacks in an already difficult situation, for example. in the field of human rights, in the case of the Shia Laws, which was mentioned here in the debate, and the reasonably extensive electoral fraud. It hasn't necessarily been that much better before. We started at a low level, but we have to make some demands, and at least we have to see improvements. But, of course, we have to be realistic. Then I am glad that the representative Gustavsen brought forward the situation of refugees and the humanitarian situation. It is often under-communicated in the debate on military, corruption, etc. Many people are in a rather hopeless situation and need assistance. I think it is good that many representatives have pointed out a lot that after all is going well. One thing that has not been mentioned, but which I am pleased about, is that it seems that investment is on its way back to Afghanistan again, and that people have confidence in investing in factories and in businesses. That's a good signal. When capital comes to a country, some people have optimism. There are people who believe that you can succeed. That's the faith we have to take with us. With hard work from all sides, we must have faith that it will produce results, and that when we debate Afghanistan in eight years from now – we have already been there for eight years – we see a completely different Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e821	Today's debate has well fully reflected the complexity of Afghan society and thus also of international efforts in the country, and the political expectations are and must be great towards the newly elected President and his incoming Government. For my part, I am pleased to be able to record the broad consensus available on the Government's strategy, and in particular on the military effort. For our soldiers in Afghanistan do a very important and good job, and they will continue, and then it is also so important that they have our full support and recognition for the job they do. At the same time, there are a number of factors that will influence what Norwegian strength contributions will look like in the future. These include: unexplained conditions surrounding ISAF’s future facility, where the US decision to contribute to Afghanistan will play a central role, and there is also uncertainty about the rate of development of the Afghan security forces and their ability to deal with the deteriorating security situation itself. However, it is expected that these conditions will be clarified to a greater extent towards the end of the year. The United States is expected to announce its further strategy for Afghanistan and the facility for its strength contribution over the coming weeks, and, as we have also heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned, the NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in two weeks will also have ISAF's future device as an important topic. The Government aims to continue its strength contribution throughout 2010 at about the same level as this year. At the same time, as I mentioned, a gradual adjustment of the composition of the force is being made in order to increase efforts on training, training and support to Afghan security forces, for the strengthening of the capacity of the Afghan army and the Afghan police is essential for the stability and security of Afghan authorities themselves in the long term. I think it was Kai Eide who once said: without certainty no development, and without development no certainty. For our part, we want to take an active part in key debates on the way forward, and I am also very pleased with the occasion that today's debate has given to take part in the change of words on the way forward. I'm sure there'll be new opportunities later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e836	I'll join those who say it's been a useful session. There is a sort of mantra going around in the public debate that we do not have a debate about the efforts in Afghanistan, and I think we can reverse that. This has been a thorough debate, it has been nuanced, it has been illuminated by several teams, and I think we take the responsibility that we have to take into consideration critically, continuously, whether we do the right things, like Norway and as an ally. But then the question is, can we capture complexity? A debater who is not in this house, but active in the Norwegian social debate, Professor Haaland Matlary, recently focuses in an article on «Norwegian politicians are not concerned about the course of the war», and she presents it as if it were about: Are we winning against the Taliban or not – are we winning the war? What I think is the progress of the analysis is that you realize that you don't win in Afghanistan if you reduce this mission to win against the Taliban. For it is an enemy who can be careful not to win, to nevertheless impose great losses on the opponent, the Afghan government and the international community. The goal is not to win, but the aim of the Taliban and the rebel groups is to keep this level of conflict going. I don't think the ambition is to be able to roll into Kabul, but it's permanent to be able to keep an unstable situation. So, Ergo, we're challenged to find a broader grip on the task we have in Afghanistan, and today's debate seems to me to have reflected it well. Development – security, security – how we build capacity, I think we are in the right track, and we are well equipped to participate in this debate internationally. So also the coverage of Afghanistan very fluctuates, from a time back almost assumed that we were close to being in target, to now, where it is very, very gloomy. I think the posts here have been good by also pointing to the shades, that it's actually a composite image, with a lot of things going in the right direction. I referred to this poll, which is quite thorough, made up of Afghans recently and reproduced in international media, which showed some of the progress and how the Afghans also perceive it. So to the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Eriksen Soreide, with regard to the civil-military: it's a very important issue – the formulation of the members, as she pointed out. We are also concerned that we can do good civil work in all parts of Afghanistan, including in Faryab, where we have our PRT. But, of course, this is closely linked to the security situation and the need to keep a very clear distinction between civil and military mandates. So there was a question of a strengthening of the UN, coming from more teams. We agree, but I think we need to recognise the inability and ability of the United Nations to strengthen itself in Afghanistan in recent years, to give Kai Eide the resources he needs both from people and other resources in Afghanistan. They have failed to meet his requirements, and therefore coordination outside the UN is also an important topic in the future debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e849	Case No. 4 is then finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e864	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e873	It has long been known that the Government would recommend a participation in the capital increase of DnB NOR ASA announced on 25 September. I am therefore pleased that the Committee – I would like to stress that at first – has shown the willingness to deal with this matter quickly. And it's an overall committee that's behind the main principles of the vote. The capital increase now to be carried out by DnB NOR ASA shall take place through a guaranteed preferential right issue, where the company’s share capital is increased by approximately DKK 14 billion. The state's share is limited up to NOK 5 billion, but so the state's holding remains unchanged at 34 p.m. I see it as important, and not least right, that DnB NOR has had a good opportunity – yes, a very good opportunity, as the situation has been – to raise investments in the international capital market. The capital increase facilitates the maintenance and development of access to the international capital market, with its importance. Not least, the company's rating will now remain good, and this ratio is of great importance in this context. A solid financial company is of great importance. In particular, the Committee has stressed the importance of having a large Norwegian-based financial company as a good and accessible business partner. I think that's the basis for highlighting just the significance of that relationship. A strong Norwegian financial player such as DnB is, and will be, absolutely necessary also for Norwegian business in a globalised economy and in international markets, especially in a situation where post-financial crisis droughts still characterise business access to what they define as normal financial instruments for business. I would also like to express my hope that the capital increase that is now being carried out can give the company a capital strength that will in the future stand out well in international comparisons and at the same time be beyond future capital adequacy requirements, which are under discussion in these days. Finally, this is a major and important matter for a large Norwegian financial company, but it is also worth stressing that the company is owned by many shareholders. Many of these are small shareholders, and this is a very great responsibility to the small shareholders. I want to underline that in this matter. There is an overall committee that supports the proposal for a decision in this matter, and therefore I do not see the need to draw the argument for the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e890	I can largely agree with what the rapporteur has said in this matter. There is also a unanimous approach to treatment today. I will also be allowed to make a comment that there has been a very rapid discussion in the Committee on this matter. In fact, we are talking here about a budget of DKK 5 billion, which has been dispatched at a rapid pace through the Committee. But that's of course the content of the matter, and not least the situation in which DnB NOR is, which allows you to join it. I am at least very pleased that you have received a comment on not only that the small shareholders should be kept informed and given good information, but that it is actually a unanimous committee, and I ask you to note that very clearly, as ‘will point out the need for the interests of small shareholders to be properly safeguarded by the company in the context of the increase in capital’. There is a significant tightening in addition to what was originally in the setting – that here you should also take care of the interests, not only provide information. It's important. Finally, I just want to point out one little thing, and it also comes out of the proposition: the state has 34 pst. the share of that bank. Then it is important that we are also involved in the possibility of loss portfolios that we, among other things, use. can look towards the Baltic and the exposure there. I hope that you pass it on to the governing bodies, and that you have a lot of focus on this, so that you can limit potential losses from that side, which are very uncertain in the bank's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e908	Only a few minor comments on a matter on which the Committee agrees, for example. The previous speakers have pointed out the pace of the case, but there is nothing specific about the issues that have occurred during the financial crisis and in the wake of the financial crisis. I am thinking about the package of measures in February, the exchange scheme, the State Financial Fund, etc. It is good that Stortinget can react quickly to that kind of thing. It is also good that DnB NOR has not now found it necessary to use any of the state arrangements, but has been able to go out into the private market to get hold of this capital. It shows that at least the financial crisis in banking is overcome in many ways. But it's not over when we get into the real economy. We can see that from reports from the shipbuilding industry, the supplier industry, etc., which also talk about access to loans. The hope is that times are getting better there as well, and that a strong DNB NOR is one of the sources that can contribute to this. Just a few words about what has been pointed out that DNB NOR should take into account the small shareholders of the bank. I fully agree with that, and the committee has pointed that out. But let me also – although the Right has not written it in any comment – say from this that the State as a large owner should also take into account that there are a number of not only small shareholders but also larger shareholders. It is an area in which the Stortinget and the political community in Norway have discussed very many crossroads. I think that's reason to mention it, because we're so agreed to take into account the small shareholders. Let us also agree, as far as we can, that ownership by the state – as a 34 p.m. owner – should be fair, follow the ownership principles and not favor someone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e917	The financial crisis is not over, and we're still seeing that there's active state involvement that needs to be done to clean up after uncontrolled market forces. Those who are trying to vent the financial crisis have had little insight into the problems facing business, international and national. Norwegian business continues to face major challenges in the form of dramatic industrial aftermaths of the financial crisis. It is enough to remember the difficulties we have in the fishing industry and in the yard industry: the financial crisis threatens jobs and entire industries. In addition, Norwegian industry has a high need for conversion. In the next decade, we will have to move from an oil economy to an economy that is more built on renewable energy and environmental technologies. In this situation, it is important to have a well-functioning banking industry, which is able to take reasonable and necessary risks, and which can contribute to the emergence of new, important, large industrial projects. In addition, the government expects that capital requirements will be met by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. We therefore understand that the board of DnB NOR wants to strengthen its equity. It is important that the State secures its position in the bank and maintains its 34 p.m. ownership so that the state can retain its financial and strategic interests with its ownership in an important Norwegian industrial bank. But when the state deposits and increases its equity, it is reasonable and important to have clear expectations for the bank. We must expect the bank to take its reasonable part in the responsibility for developing Norwegian business. There is reason to recall that the banking system in general — and DnB NOR in particular — has a great responsibility to ensure that we get through the crisis and secure future jobs. The banking industry involved in creating the crisis must take its responsibility for the crisis in industry and for job security. So my main estate is: we rely on giving DNB NOR framework conditions, and so we – and we expect – that the bank, as a large industrial bank, will assume its responsibility for developing Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e928	First, I would like to agree with what the rapporteur has said initially in this matter. The objective of the State ownership of DnB NOR is to ensure that the group has its head office in Norway and that the company is a partner for Norwegian companies domestically and on the export market, as the Committee has pointed out. The centre party will emphasise the importance of having a large Norwegian-based financial company, which will be a good and accessible partner for the business community in Norway. The Board of Directors of DnB NOR has proposed to the shareholders of the company that an increase in the company’s share capital of approximately DKK 14 billion be carried out through a guaranteed preferential rights issue. The State’s share of the proposed issue will be approximately DKK 4.8 billion. The treatment is based on the assumption that State participation shall take place within a framework which ensures that the State’s ownership interest is 34 p.m. remain unchanged. The international economy has been strongly affected by the crisis in financial markets and its ring-fences in the past year. The actions of the Government and the Bank of Norway have contributed to stabilising the Norwegian financial market and improving the access of banks to finance. The liquidity of the money market has now increased and the interest rate on loans between banks has fallen significantly, both as a result of lower interest rates and as a result of a decrease in the difference between MMF interest rates and expected interest rates. Furthermore, it is apparent from the proposition that the original capital adequacy DnB NOR had per year. 30 June 2009, at 7.3 pst, is lower than the other Nordic major banks currently have. At the same time, the proposal points out that the proposed capital increase would improve the core capital adequacy of DnB NOR to around 8,5 p.p., based on the banks' balance sheet per year. June 30, this year. Based on the assessments expressed by the Bank, the original capital ratio at the end of the year could be 9 pst. The centre party has taken note of this and that DnB NOR, after the issue, appears to be reasonably well positioned both in relation to new and more stringent minimum own funds requirements and in relation to possible new requirements that a greater share of the original capital of the banks must be ordinary equity. The Central Party supports the Government’s assessment that the State should participate in the issue in order to secure the State’s shareholder values and indicates that, in the Ministry’s view, this will serve both the financial interests of the State and the commercial justification behind the investment in DnB NOR. The central party emphasises that the capital increase will provide DnB NOR with better opportunities to maintain the company's value creation and central role for Norwegian business, and we would stress that the ownership stake in DnB NOR ASA should be maintained at 34 p.m., in line with the Stortingen's decision on the ownership announcement. The central party indicates that the shareholder portfolio of DnB NOR is extensive and contains a number of smaller shareholders, as several of the speakers have pointed out. The party to the concentration refers to the fact that the Committee in its decision will ask the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as the largest owner, to ensure that DnB NOR facilitates the adequate provision of information to other shareholders by the company on the possibilities of the capital increase in active use of subscription rights or their sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e945	International banking and financial regulators are now working on new and better regulation for the financial sector. The Christian People's Party welcomes this. One of the lessons from the financial crisis is that banks need to have better capital coverage to avoid new banking crises in the future. The Christian People's Party is a member of a professional state ownership as an instrument, among other things. to ensure that value creation through the exploitation of non-renewable resources benefits the entire population and to maintain key management and strategy functions in enterprises in Norway. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the Government's assessment that the State should participate in the issue in order to maintain the state's 34 p.m. shareholding, in line with the Stortingen's suspension of the ownership notification. The objective of state ownership in DnB NOR is, as the Christian People's Party sees it, to ensure that the group retains its head office and key competence jobs here in Norway. The Christian People's Party will also eventually comment on the relationship with the smaller shareholders, because the shareholder portfolio of DnB NOR is extensive and contains a number of smaller shareholders. The Christian People's Party will ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade as the largest owner to make sure that DnB NOR facilitates that other shareholders are adequately informed by the company about the possibilities of the capital increase in active use of subscription rights or their sale. It is important that the interests of small shareholders are properly safeguarded by the company in the context of the capital increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e956	Next speaker is State Council Trond Giske, then Svein Flätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e959	This is, of course, a matter of broad agreement, and it is not so much to add to the rapporteur's statements and statements from the Committee, except, first of all, to commend the Committee on Rapid Work. It is true, as I believe both the Fleet and Nesvik pointed out, that in the context of the financial crisis it has been necessary for the Storting to act quickly. It has also been done in this case. I think it also belongs a little bit to the public role that owns that we have to be able to turn around quickly when necessary. It's about professional ownership that we're able to work well between departments, government and big business in these common cases. Of course, we're also going to bring the recordings that come with us. We're going to have a ownership line where we work well with other shareholders where we own with others, and we're going to be part of that shareholder community in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e966	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e970	I had drawn myself on the list of speakers, but I'd rather take a line on the council. The representative from SV said in his post that they have clear expectations of DnB NOR that they bear their reasonable share of the responsibility to ensure that you get out of the crisis. There is nothing in the comments from the government parties about this. It's just what we all agree on, that the bank will be well able to operate Norwegian business in the usual banking and banking manner. Does the Council share the view that there are expectations other than those mentioned here, that the Bank should do more about the crisis in the real economy than about normal banking?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e977	As the owner, we have a expectation of DnB NOR. It's that there should be a professional ownership that's about commercial terms. Those expectations are based on DnB NOR’s governance and management making wise judgements that safeguard the interests of the shareholder community. But then we also have some political expectations of DnB NOR and all the other banks that we now reach, as I see, the head of DnB NOR, Rune Bjerke, refresher of the Norwegian economy, with certain shades, coming back to a financial situation where banks and other financial institutions start to provide normal safety requirements, starting to borrow in the normal way, so that Norwegian businesses, entrepreneurs and others get access to the risk capital and long-term capital that we need. That's our expectation. We have done a lot from the public to counteract the financial crisis, both with the bank guarantee package and with the package of measures, and we hope that this will now produce results. But as owner, we have the usual commercial expectation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e984	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 331]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1003	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1012	On behalf of the Business Committee, I am presenting today the matter of changes to the 2009 State Budget under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, also known as the liquidity regime for the fishing industry. I expect that the opposition will explain its proposal in the matter. The global financial crisis has also had major ring-fences in Norway, especially for export industries. It has become apparent that parts of the coastal fishing industry are struggling. This is a very demanding and serious situation. The Committee is concerned that parts of the fishing industry should not have sufficient liquidity to ensure the necessary reception capacity for the implementation of cod fishing in 2010, which could have a significant impact on both fishermen and coastal communities dependent on cod fishing. While the export of salmon, pelagic fish and cuttlefish has been partly very good, the export of cod products has otherwise experienced a significant fall in price. Importers have also required longer credit time and have been less willing to sit in their own stock. This has created major challenges and losses for the fishing industry, which has purchased raw materials at high prices at the end of 2008 and winter 2009. The build-up of stocks has also provided credit challenges for the fishing industry and reduced the reception capacity of fishermen. Fish have been significantly reduced in revenue as a result of lower prices in 2009 than in 2008. Since the autumn of 2008, several key measures have been put in place which have been important for the fishing industry. Through the large package of measures, the Government has mainly put in place measures to stimulate employment and to help ensure the normal functioning of the credit market. For the fishing industry, measures have been aimed at keeping the activity going, at sea and at land, until, hopefully, sales now resume. The guarantee scheme for the sales laws was immediately put into effect. It has worked as intended and helped to increase the first-hand turnover of fish. The system of guarantees for the fishing industry is minimal. To date, the banks have not wanted to make use of this mechanism. Driving grants and grants to reception stations have ensured the possibility for fishermen to continue landing catches. It has been important for the coastal and fjord fleet. In addition, market-oriented measures have been granted which, according to the Committee on Fish Exports, have had a good effect and have led to the placing on the market of Norwegian cod. The materiality of the Norwegian stocks of salt fish has now been sold, but at clearly reduced prices. The Committee supports the proposal for a new liquidity facility, which will provide a framework of 250 million. kr. We believe that this will address the liquidity challenges in the fishing industry, in order to ensure the necessary reception capacity for the implementation of cod fishing in 2010. The scheme shall be managed by Innovation Norway. In the vote, the majority of the Economic and Social Committee emphasises that we expect Innovation Norway to exercise discretion and use the space for action it has in accordance with its guidelines, in order to demonstrate flexibility in the terms and conditions. This concerns the loan conditions, the ratios associated with deferral, the possibilities for deferral of interest and the requirements for equity. We have registered that the Government has a continuous dialogue with the industry. It is important that the situation is kept under constant review and that the Government also assesses the need for additional measures to remedy the situation in the fishing industry. The majority of the Committee – consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre – asks the Government to return to the Stortinget on this matter in the context of the revised national budget in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1042	The issue we are now dealing with is very important to many coastal communities. It is important that we put in place a liquidity loan scheme that enables them to trade their goods for the coming cod season. It is very important that we focus in this Chamber on the fact that the fishing industry is a non-subsidized industry. It's an industry that can stand on its own, and it's been very good to change over time. That's the way it has to be. It is then important that, with the instrument we are implementing in relation to the different situations that have now arisen, we ensure that this is done in such a way that Norway cannot be accused of engaging in subsidies. There is a need to be very careful about the means used, for one thing we can be absolutely certain that if you can find some point on which you can take Norway on the subsidy side, action will be taken. We have seen this in the farming industry and in other industries, and it is therefore important that these rules are followed. It is too easy to say that the situation of the cod industry is the result of the financial crisis alone. It also has to do with the underlying legislation and the way we calculate minimum prices. There is also considerable evidence in this case. When you set the price of cod in December, when you have the lowest insight into fish, and expect that when you have been in stock until March, when you have the great insight and the great deliveries, you will maintain the same price, at least for certain periods I will say that it is relatively naive, because the market will ask for the fish according to the price that you are willing to pay. Having too rigid a regulation will also affect the situation we have had this year, with a relatively large amount of fish in stock. Of course, it affects the price that the market is willing to pay, because of course the market wants to get this at the lowest price possible. But it does not exempt us as politicians from making sure that we can at least make capital available, so that those who are now going to enter this season have capital to buy the fish available in the market. If we don't get done with the system itself in the long run to make a better adjustment between the expectations of the fishermen and what the market is willing to pay for the fish, we might see more cases where we have huge build-up of stocks that you don't get sold at the price you initially expected to get for it. The Progress Party also shares with the Right and Christian People's Party that the legislation relating to the liquidity loan scheme should not be interpreted so rigidly and strictly that those who really need it are not given the opportunity to use it. If you interpret this code very strictly, it's actually the companies that could have received loans today and built up their capital through the banking system, which today will be able to make use of it, while the companies that don't have the same opportunity fall outside. Therefore, the Progress Party, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, asks that the main principles be changed so that loans can be made more flexible in terms of instalments, interest rates and not least collateral. I hope the council will look at these things in the long term, just to try to help those who are really struggling out there. I also think that we can't help but think that someone might be able to go bankrupt as a result of this. It is obvious that some people may have speculated about buying fish in this market. I don't think we should be so naive to think that this can't happen again. That is why I want the Council of State to say a few words in its statement that she will also look at the possibility of price fixing and the market mechanisms lying there, which at least in this instance have clearly proved to be ineffective. With that, I take up the proposal of the minority included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1066	The representative Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1069	This is, as I said earlier, a very important issue for small communities, on which there is an urgent need to get a good solution. It's also important that we in this room adopt a solution that works, that does what we intended it to do. The matter is also complicated by the fact that it has taken a very long time to find a solution. As early as February, the Director-General of the Right asked the present Council of State for Fisheries what it had intended to do with the difficult situation. It was then faced with the 2009 Lofot season, and it was already noticed that there were sales problems. Now we're about to face the 2010 lofotsong, and the problems are not getting any smaller. Daily we read about a fishing fleet that is struggling to achieve profitability in a fish where the raw material price has fallen by over 30 pst. in a short time. Problems in getting the fish delivered come to the top. Examples of fishing industries that fail to meet their obligations after heavy losses in a falling market are also many. It's not that we can just fear bankruptcy – bankruptcy is a reality already in some businesses. The question of what you intend to do is therefore equally relevant, and that is what you have been working on in this matter. The international financial crisis means that the market is not willing to pay as much for the raw material as before. This also means that competing countries such as Iceland and Russia sell large quantities of raw materials to the same markets at a much lower price than before. In Norway, the turnover regime has been set up in such a way that we have problems adapting quickly enough to changes in the market. So it's problematic to stick with the turns. These are issues that we don't get to do so much in the short term, but are things that we have to deal with and do something with in the longer term. For the part of the case in question and for Norway, it is a point that the crisis packages we have used to stimulate the national economy do not provide export-oriented industry with better conditions. Higher public consumption has strengthened the crown and is about to give us a higher interest rate. Both of these factors make the situation more difficult for the export-oriented industry. The position has come to us somewhat during the discussion in the committee, but we believe the solution that exists from the majority is not good enough. In order to help industry quickly enough, it is a concern that claims are made to the private banks to give way to mortgages. We fear that this will lead to longer processing times and a tighter financial regime, which in turn will have undesirable consequences for industry. That is why the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, promotes a proposal that we believe gives the instrument the flexibility that the situation requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1086	The financial crisis has a major impact on the fishing industry. We look with concern at the situation in which parts of the industry have come into being. Many companies have argued between fixed minimum prices and failed export prices. Export difficulties and stock-building have created liquidity problems that have led many companies to be in a very difficult situation. The traditional salt and dry fish industry in Lofoten, the Western Seabed and parts of Troms is particularly hard. The situation is worrying because it threatens the structure of the fishing industry. It may result in strong and unwanted centralisation in the fishing industry and may result in depopulation of deferred coastal communities. We've received a lot of worry messages from the industry about just this. There's a signal like there's a big reason to take it seriously. Lack of local reception capacity in the 2010 cod season can have serious consequences both for fishermen and for coastal communities. SV is concerned about ensuring the employment and construction along the coast and taking care of locally based fishing industries. Therefore, SV has committed itself strongly to this issue both locally and nationally. In 2009, the government has launched several measures to help the fishing industry, and we are now seeing the need for further action in the form of a new liquidity loan scheme, as proposed here. Through the work of the Committee, we have been prepared for the loan arrangements in a way that takes into account many of the SV recorded and the government received from the industry and from party comrades in the north. It is not least the premise that Innovation Norway should use as flexible an understanding as possible to remedy the difficult situation we face. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the wish to extend the repayment and deferral of interest as part of the liberalisation process. Many of the recordings I've got from the industry are just going on these relationships. I'm glad that there was a broad consensus in the Committee on precisely these things. But we're not going to let things go. The Government and the Committee will continue to have good dialogue with the industry, and the Committee asks the Government to return to the matter in the revised national budget for 2010. Governments will then have a new opportunity to assess the situation and look at what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1099	First of all, I would like to refer to the statement by the rapporteur on the matter. The difficult situation for the fishing industry in northern Northland and Troms has been a major issue throughout this year, and the Central Party has for a long time been very committed to the matter. From December 2008 and beyond in winter 2009, we received clear signals from the industry operators that this was going to be a very difficult year. This applies in particular to enterprises which are engaged in traditional production of saltfish and dry fish, and in particular to those which buy a lot of cod early in the winter season. This means, to a large extent, farms in Lofoten, the West and in Troms. Enterprises in these areas have suffered significant losses this year, which has significantly affected the equity of a number of enterprises. In addition, there is considerable uncertainty about the reception capacity in Nord-Troms. This issue is about tackling the crisis for the fishing industry along the coast of Northland and Troms. But it is equally about opportunities for further investment in a viable fishing industry and coastal settlement. This is about the future of the coast of North Norway and opportunities to have ‘light in the house’. This is precisely why we in the Centre Party believe it is important to resolve the situation for the fishing industry. This is the most important thing for a total part of the country in the north. And we therefore hope that the liquidity regime, with the conditions adopted by the Stortinget today, will contribute to a solution to this situation. A large part of the fisheries holdings concerned are locally owned, they are engaged in the local fleet and contribute to active and viable coastal communities. I have close contact with many of the fishing farms in Troms, and especially the holdings in Senja, in the area where I myself live. According to figures from the fisheries holdings, the Senja holdings alone have a loss of up to 60 million this year. kr – this at the strongest fishing centre in Troms, where the export value from fisheries and aquaculture is DKK 1.7 billion and the number of direct employees in the industry is over 800. And with the ring-effects around, that's about 3,000 jobs. With the major ring-effects this gives, it is clear that there is a high level of involvement in the whole community, including in the other regions concerned. On 22 August this year, Mr Helga Pedersen and Mr Liv Signe Navarsete, Minister for Transport, presented a liquidity scheme for the fishing industry. This was done on Husøy in Senja in Troms. The Central Party supports the proposal for a new liquidity regime, with a framework of 250 million. kr. Following the submission of the liquidity mechanism in August, a number of fishing establishments indicated the need to adapt the legislative proposal in order to make use of this scheme. This included, in particular, the conditions relating to mortgages, equity and the possibility of deferred payments. The central party therefore considers that there is reason to stress that the majority of the Committee expects Innovation Norway to exercise its discretion and use its capacity to act and to consider the loan conditions of the scheme as flexible as possible. This relates to the ratio of deferrals and deferrals of interest. The Central Party is also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that Innovation Norway will require around 50 pst. of the loan equivalent to the banks, but that the proportion can be adjusted in negotiations with each enterprise — and the latter is important to underline. In addition, the Centre Party is pleased that the majority of the Committee requests that Innovation Norway demonstrate flexibility also in respect of equity requirements, to which industry has also been involved. If the situation in the fishing industry does not improve, the fleet of Northland and Troms also fears that they will notice the crisis as we enter the new season. We are familiar with the fact that fishing companies have already notified the replacement right, and we also see that boats are now for sale. The impact of the problems in the fishing industry may be high if we do not have the power to help businesses get over their problems. Fishermen I spoke to at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Fiskarlag in Trondheim last week were also very concerned about the situation. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that in the future, government and grubbing-up should continue to pay great attention to the fishing industry and continuously assess the situation and the need for further action to remedy the situation in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1122	The financial crisis has caused the greatest decline in the world economy since the depression of the 1930s and is the first global economic crisis since World War II. Norway has been less affected by economic decline, but the crisis is also felt in many industries, particularly export industries. With an export share exceeding 90 pst. fisheries and aquaculture are particularly affected by changes in purchasing power globally. Exports of cod products have shown a significant fall in prices. Importers have demanded longer credit days and have been less willing to sit in their own stock. This has primarily created major challenges and losses for the fishing industry which has purchased raw materials at higher prices at the end of 2008 and winter 2009. The build-up of stocks has also provided credit challenges for the fishing industry and reduced the reception capacity of fishermen. The traditional saltfish and dryfish industry has been particularly hit, as they buy in large quantities of cod during winter fishing and sell their products later this year. Holdings carrying out traditional production of saltfish and/or dry fish, and especially those buying a lot of cod early in the winter season, have been hit hardest. This means, to a large extent, enterprises in Lofoten, the West and South and Middle Troms. In addition, there is uncertainty about the reception capacity in Nord-Troms. The reception capacity for next year's winter fishing will depend on the assessment by the fishing industry and banks of whether you can make money on future production. The evolution of the market and the prices of raw materials will be essential for this assessment. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the liquidity facility must provide the borrowers with conditions that make it work properly. It is therefore necessary to amend and make more flexible, in our view, the main principles of the Ministry’s legislation than those set out in the proposal, so that firms in crisis can benefit from it. The need for this is clear from the contacts of the industry itself and the opinions of the NHO, LO, political parties locally, municipalities and county councils asking for greater flexibility in terms of conditions. The loan scheme must focus not only on an industry in great difficulty but also on the many small communities that depend on the functioning of small and large corner stone holdings in the fishing industry. It is vital for local communities to be able to overcome the crisis in the long term with market and profitability opportunities. It must then be acceptable for the State to take a slightly higher risk than is now apparent from the legislative principles set out in the proposal. The Christian People’s Party believes that both the possibility of a longer repayment period, where applicable, less favourable interest rates and not least a less rigid approach to the provision of collateral to ordinary operating loan banks for existing or new loans must be part of the work of the Government to amend the main principles of the rules governing the lending regime – as far as possible within the framework of international law on illegal State aid. The Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party and the Right, is therefore in favour of a proposal to amend the main principles of the Loan Code so that loans can be made more flexible in terms of instalments, interest rates and collateral. However, we would stress that this must be considered a temporary arrangement that is not intended to replace ordinary operating credits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1137	Parts of the Norwegian fishing industry have been severely affected by the financial crisis. The salt and dry fish industry has been particularly exposed and cod fishing is at risk. The liquidity loan arrangements have not functioned properly, as the conditions for access to this scheme for the fishing industry have been based on the security of equity or security of the banks. Knowing that fishing industry companies have sold salt fish away from stock and realised losses leads to a reduction in equity and a reduction in operating credit and increased risk to banks. In such a situation, banks are held back with additional operational credit and are unable to avail themselves of the liquidity loan schemes, as the Government admits. It is essential that the fishing industry works, especially for small areas. Workplaces are at risk, and coastal fleets are at risk of losing places to deliver their fish. For the left, it's obvious that taking away one term in the chain, will definitely lose all of it. Ensuring that the fishing industry is able to buy fish is essential. Now we have to make sure that fishing industry companies are able to buy fish so that they can satisfy the market and the fishermen get their quotas. The Left agrees that Innovation Norway should exercise more discretion when examining applications for access to loan schemes and that it should be made more flexible than the proposition. We think it's obvious. For this reason, the Left will vote in favour of the minority's proposal and otherwise support the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1147	When you look at the big picture, we can see that the fishing and aquaculture industries as a whole are going very well. Export records are set almost every month and the resource situation is good. However, the large picture conceals that parts of the industry face major challenges, including: as a result of the market effects of the global financial crisis. The whitefish industry has experienced a significant fall in prices over a relatively short period of time, especially for cod products. Increased credit to customers and increased stocks of industry have also led to higher capital requirements. The industry has had to sell cod products produced from raw materials purchased at relatively high prices in winter 2008/2009, prices which have caused some significant losses. There is also uncertainty about further losses in the sale of dry fish in the future. Lower raw material prices and a challenging reception situation in 2009 have also resulted in a significant decrease in the income of fishermen. However, European consumers still demand Norwegian cod. Lower prices have contributed to increased consumption in existing customer groups and to the purchase of Norwegian cod by new customers. Better functioning markets can help to provide the basis for new profitability for industry in the future. This, together with the necessary capital injection, will be important in order to ensure the necessary reception capacity and the most normal closure of fishing in 2010. The liquidity loan scheme currently under consideration by the Stortinget shall allow Innovation Norway to offer government liquidity loans to the fishing industry with a significant risk-absorbing effect. Risk relief is mainly due to the fact that part of the liquidity loan from Innovation Norway can be provided with subordinated collateral and that the loan is granted at a relatively low interest rate compared to the real risk incurred by the State. Therefore, if banks also contribute, the Government expects the liquidity loan scheme to address some of the liquidity challenges in the fishing industry. It is also important to point out that previous measures this year will also contribute positively to the fishing industry in 2010, including: The guarantee agreement between Innovation Norway and Norway’s raw fish teams of 320 million. kr will also apply in 2010 and will allow Norway’s raw fish teams to provide extended credit in 2010. Guarantees for operational credit for the fishing industry are provided within the guarantee framework of 97,5 million. kr in 2009 and will expire in 2010. CERTAIN credit insurance will continue to be able to provide export credit insurance in 2010. Increased loan frameworks for Innovation Norway have been proposed in 2010 compared with the 2009 budget. It is also envisaged that in 2010 lead grants and grants will be granted to reception stations. In order to contribute to increased long-term marketing, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has, at consultation, sent proposals to harmonise the market charge to 0.75 pst. for all fishery products. This, if decided, alone will increase the income of the Export Committee for Fish by an estimated 60 million. kr. At the same time, it is important to be clear that, although the State contributes through a number of measures and has extended the instruments as far as possible, some fishing industry holdings could be so poorly placed to go bankrupt or have to cease operations. The State cannot grant operating aid to companies, and it is not reasonable, in my opinion, to use public funds to enter companies that do not have a basis for further operations. There are therefore two main principles that must underpin the proposed liquidity mechanism: a share of the loan must be secured with equivalent collateral and the companies concerned must have a basis for future profitable operations. In addition, Innovation Norway has considerable flexibility to exercise discretion in relation to other conditions as long as the overall risk is considered sound within the framework of the Debt facility. The government has had and will continue to focus on a continuous dialogue with the fishing industry. The situation is continuously assessed, including any need for further action. Of course, I will follow up the request to come back to Stortinget with an assessment of the situation, at the latest in the context of the revised budget 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1186	The undersigned said in his statement that the financial crisis cannot only be blamed for the situation we are now facing. If that were the case, the exact same effect would be obtained in relation to the placing on the market of both cuttlefish, pelagic fish and salmon, because at least on the side of the rock and salmon, there is a relatively high cost associated with the products, and therefore one cannot conclude so unambiguously. Part of the problem is probably linked to the way we price the cod and the reception for the cod, especially in the north. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State take an initiative in bringing together the parties – I am talking about the buyers, fishermen, authorities, financial institutions and the raw fish layer – to look at the possibility of finding other mechanisms to set the price, so that there can be a better distribution and consistency between the fisherman and the market is willing to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1193	The representative of Nesvik is quite right in saying that the causes are many and complex. He comes into one area, pricing. There is also an image that can be nuanced, at least as far as the last winter is concerned. What's also known is that we've had a trial plan with mediation in pricing. It is for evaluation, and in this respect, of course, I will discuss ways of dealing with this in the future after that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1198	Government parties state in their comments that they expect Innovation Norway to do so and so in relation to this case. But the problem is that the bulk of the population cannot instruct Innovation Norway, only the Ministry of Fisheries and the Government can do so. Does not the Council of State think that it would be better for the Ministry to have clear principles — and changed principles — for how Innovation Norway should deal with these matters, as proposed by the minority? Wouldn't it be a cleaner, clearer and simpler arrangement, and much better for the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1203	The principles are very clear, and the most important thing – as I said in my post – must be to make demands in relation to risk. We cannot risk a situation where we are being taken for subsidisation; it has Norwegian fishing industry experience from salmon – it is important that a real risk assessment is envisaged. It is also important, as many have said in their speeches today, that this is a temporary measure. Within the framework, Innovation Norway has great flexibility. There must be collateral requirements and maturity can be discussed in relation to repayment time and interest rate setting, but within the external framework. I feel very confident that with the principles laid down and the mandate of Innovation Norway, we also meet the opposition's notification of the requirements and wishes for the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1208	I am very grateful and happy that the Council of State here clearly says from the fact that you do not want to go in and turn the fishing industry into a subsidy industry, but that you have a focus on this, because we will be very dependent on having a competitive industry in the future. But then we also have to accept that some conversion measures are taking place in order to adapt to the market's willingness to accept quantities and not least the type of product. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State, in the context of the revised national budget or in any other way, ensure that it is explained to the Stortinget, if it is now seen that this system does not take place as it should, and that companies in need of the liquidity loan scheme do not receive this money because the system is too rigid? Will the Council of State then ensure the return of the Storting with new measures so that the industry can continue its activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1215	I will certainly follow this scheme carefully and in detail. I have close and close contact with both Innovation Norway – I had the latest meeting with them yesterday – and the parties to this, both fishermen and industry at all, and will, of course, come back to Stortinget if we see that this does not happen. But, as I say, we have to at least make sure that the goal of the arrangement is to get activity ahead. We can't cover past losses, we all agree on that. Based on that, it will take a while beyond the winter before we know about this arrangement, together with the others – we have to remember that we have more arrangements – to take care of this. But it is quite obvious that I come to Stortinget when Stortinget wants and I have something to report in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1222	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1227	I took the floor to clarify what is in the majority's remark, and what is the opposition's proposal. There is no doubt that I feel that both the Council of State and the majority of governments are concerned with the flexibility that can be measured in terms of Innovation Norway and the practice and legislation in force. I actually don't think there's any doubt about it, and there's a reason to underline it. I feel that the opposition in this matter is trying to draw it a little further than what is actually the real situation, because the Council of State is in its response to questions from the Right very clearly and clearly states that one should exercise the system of discretion and flexibility and assess the individual enterprise. There is no doubt about it, but I feel that a person both in question and in the debate is trying to doubt it. Then I have to admit that I am somewhat surprised at what the opposition is actually proposing, especially when the representative Svein Fleet says that he wants to clarify the principles of the lending law while at the same time wanting even more flexibility in the lending law relating to this matter. There's going to be a double communication here, and I think the main point is actually directed towards – let's say – the game against the industry. I think it is important to establish what is stated in the letter of reply from the Council of State that flexibility, discretion, down to the individual holding, should be exercised in such a way that it is adapted to the individual holding and to the existing legislation, so that one does not get into a situation where one breaks international rules and thus puts the fishing industry in a bad light. I just wanted to underline it from this pulpit, so that there would be no more speculation than necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1238	There's no speculation about this. In the proposal, the principles of how Innovation Norway is to deal with this liquidity loan scheme are clearly established, and it is said that this will be done by the Ministry. We didn't think it was enough. We have asked some questions and received an answer. Then I understood that the opposition did not think it was sufficient either. There is no ambiguity in our proposal. What we are asking for is briefly a message back to the Government that they should take a closer look at the principles established in the proposition and in our note, which are related to the proposal. And then we'll say something about the areas in which you're going to do it. I think that is a good suggestion. It could improve the situation for businesses. It has to do with security, and it may have to do with payoff time. It's not that we want it to be free to take more risk, just that the possibilities have to be greater. Because there is no doubt that the messages that I believe all parties in the Storting are getting from the industry in this context are quite alarming. That is the background to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1246	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 331]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1263	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 332]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1280	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1289	It is a challenge in Norway that, in the future, we will have more pensioners and fewer jobs. Because this major demographic challenge was seen, a large majority of the Stortinget entered into two broad pension agreements in 2005 and 2007 respectively. There were pension comparisons where new earnings rules, life expectancy adjustment, flexible withdrawals were introduced — in short, pension settlements were designed to ensure that we had a sustainable and robust pension system for the future. And as I said, it was broadly anchored in Stortinget. The issue we are going to deal with today is simply a legal follow-up to the pension comparisons. The case shall ensure that other laws and the rest of the public interest are adapted to what was decided in the pension agreements. There is a broad majority in the committee behind the case. The majority consists of all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, and it is very pleasing to note that the majority is so wide. Saying more than that about the matter is quite unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1296	It is true, as the rapporteur just explained, that the Progress Party is the only party that is not behind the two pension agreements. That is why I would recommend that the party representatives vote against the proposed legislative changes. Then I would just like to make a brief comment that it is a pity that the new laws still add up to the current practice of the coordination law, which means that a good part of the survivors will still lose all or part of the earned state pension/municipal pension due to the provision of supplementary pension in the social security system, so-called negative effect. This is continued in the new law. I think that is a pity and, as I said, the Progress Party will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1303	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 332]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1311	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1348	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1366	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1449	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to amend the main principles of the Loan Code so that loans can be made more flexible in relation to repayment times, interest rates and collateral.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1589	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1598	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1973	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e1986	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-17.ana.ud1909e2154	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
