ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e40	What is presented in this proposition are proposals to make it harder to exploit the financial system for the purpose of money laundering. The fight against money laundering and terrorist financing are important building blocks in creating a safer society and demarcating economic crime. The legislative proposal will ensure that Norway contributes to the international fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. There is a whole new law on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing to replace the current anti-money laundering law. The bill passes on the sentimental elements of the current money laundering law, requiring financial institutions and some others to carry out customer checks in accordance with the "know your customer" principle. With one exception, there is a joint committee behind this setting. Although this is, of course, a very important law to be adopted, there is very little party policy in this matter. So there is a great deal of agreement, and that should be a good promise. The Committee agrees that the rules on money laundering are to be applied by a wide variety of activities and that the rules can often be difficult to understand and practice. Against this background, a Joint Committee has stated that the Ministry of Finance, the Credit Authority and the Ecocrim must follow developments closely and that a continuous review of changes in the law and regulation should be undertaken if experience shows that there is a need for it. The Committee also refers to the Minister of Finance letter of 21 January 2009 to the Group of the Progression Party, where it is said that negotiators who can, by experience, receive cash amounts of more than DKK 40000 must have in place the procedures in place to deal with such situations when they arise. The Minister of Finance further says that negotiators who make sure to agree that the cash part of the payment is less than NOK 40000 will thus avoid being covered by the Money Laundering Act. The Committee agrees. In the case of cash prohibitions and object negotiators, the Committee in the configuration agrees that one does not impose a cash prohibition for money laundering purposes. The Committee also points out that the proposals contained in this Act will have some significant financial and administrative implications, so that these burdens will also increase in relation to the current money laundering law. As mentioned, the law on money laundering is complicated and, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises will have a challenge in getting sufficient knowledge and overview of the legislation. Therefore, the Committee believes that the authorities have a responsibility to provide guidance to all groups of reporting agents on the use of the rules. In this way, it is possible to facilitate such measures as are mentioned in Section 23. A single committee also states that authorities must work towards ensuring that the economic and administrative consequences of the money laundering rules do not go beyond what is necessary. On the other hand, when reporting is carried out within a financial group, the Committee is divided. That's when the Right Party and the Advance Party make up the minority, and the multiple is made up of the remaining parties. I expect that the majority will do the right thing for their own vision. The Right Party and the Progress Party refer to the fact that the individual company included in the financial group, under today's rules, cannot obtain information on the customer information collected by other companies in the same group because this customer information is subject to data protection obligations. The Right Party and the Progress Party believe that this restriction is of little use, both in terms of effectively fighting economic crime and in terms of rational use of resources within each financial group. Therefore, these two parties propose an addition to the new law that such information can be passed on to a financial group without creating a breach of the rules on compulsory membership. But everything indicates that it will be voted down today. During the hearing of the Stortingen Auditor’s Association pointed out that, under the Equation Act, the auditor has an obligation to report on the offences of tax and tax law to the tax authorities, and that, following the current law on money laundering and on a proposal for a new law, the auditor will also have to report twice on suspicion of transactions involving the proceeds of criminal offences of tax and tax law, both to the tax authorities and to Ecokrim. Reporting such offences directly to the tax authorities through the existing auditor reporting obligation can be a more accurate and better anti-tax evasion measure. This report works well and ensures that relevant authorities with more available resources can follow up on the report effectively. There are many examples of messages from the accountant to Ecokrim about suspicious transactions indebted to dividends resulting from gross violations of tax laws that do not receive any kind of follow-up because of a lack of police resources. Messages concerning suspicious transactions shall be sent under the Directive to the national financial intelligence units in Norway, Økokrim. Not significant – but subject to the anti-laundering law – tax offences are not covered by the third anti-laundering directive, because they are not considered to be serious offences under the directive. Norway is free to regulate each such crime report. Good arguments can thus be put forward to suggest that the auditor’s suspicion of transactions relating to the proceeds of criminal offences on tax and tax law should be reported through the strange and well-functioning system of the auditor’s reporting obligation under the Equation Act. Such a solution may be anchored in the legislation by the use of the proposed regulatory housing in a new Whitewashing Act § 4, fifth paragraph, first sentence. I assume that the ministry will assess this type of improvement continuously, and that the legislation will also be developed when an experience is gained, and if there is a need for such a further development of the legislation. It was a review. Then I'm not going to spend any more time. Finally, I would only like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e70	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e75	I am not going to add up to a longer debate – the rapporteur has, in a very good way, explained that it is almost a unanimous attitude. But there's one point, as the representative referred to, where there's a shared view. The comments of the Progress Party and the Right state that compliance with reporting obligations must be possible within the same financial group without restriction of professional secrecy and that one can exchange the choice of the level of customer control with other reporting entities in the same financial group. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he thinks it is an appropriate delimitation. What about savings banks within the same savings bank grouping or reporting agent that are part of a group but not a financial group? Aren't these in the same situation? Will this not be discrimination? What is the basis for just picking out the financial group?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e82	There is no doubt that this could have been an extension. But we have taken a step that we think is in the right direction, and we have said that information in a department of a financial group should be transferable and delivered to another department in the same financial group without breaching privacy considerations and privacy rules. Of course, if one were to go even further, there could always be a discussion. But when we find that we are not getting an impact on this change, we would probably not have had an impact on an even greater change either. The fact that one cannot report to other departments, we think will limit the effectiveness and enforcement of the money laundering rules, and it will also be costly for financial groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e87	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e90	The law we are dealing with today is important at a time when it is becoming increasingly easier to transfer money both domestically and across borders. In this situation, we need to identify measures that make it more difficult to use the financial system for money laundering purposes, i.e. actions aimed at avoiding the detection of a previous crime by not traceable where the money originated. I see that some people have commented on the title of the law that includes both money laundering and terrorist activities, while the short title of the «Whitewashing Act» may, in isolation, indicate a narrower purpose. In my opinion, this is not problematic; it is important that both the prevention and detection of terrorist financing are reflected as key objectives of the law. It is also the case that the concept of money laundering is well incorporated into practice in today’s law and should be continued in the daily language. In the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, each country must set up and contribute to a global or, if it will, an international system that can capture and prevent this kind of light cloud activity. Creativity is high in those environments that engage in this type of criminal activity. Without direct comparison, the financial crisis has shown us that we need international or global cooperation on financial market legislation to limit the adverse effects. Similarly, we need a well-coordinated international system and cooperation to combat the type of criminal activity that money laundering is. A thorough preparatory work has been done, which has the mouth into the proposition that is being treated. There has been a separate legal selection, which in NOW 2007:10 has assessed different aspects of the measures we have received through this case. The committee has had a broad mandate to consider proposing amendments to the applicable anti-money laundering law and regulation, which should take into account, in particular, how to implement the EEA obligations arising from the Third Directive on money laundering. In addition, the sample should take into account other international commitments and recommendations. A significant theme for the sample has been the assessment of the current rules on the identification of customers, both when establishing customer relationships and on-going control, i.e. the adequacy and appropriateness of data protection considerations. This has been the area where the Financial Committee has shared comments and legislative proposals, which I will come back to later. There have been extensive consultation processes both on the part of the Ministry and during the examination of this matter by the Finance Committee, in which we received both written and oral hearings. Although in this new law we pass on most of the key elements of the current law on money laundering, it is the extension of the law in very central areas. The scope is extended to business service providers, and the law applies to providers of services such as: assists in the creation of companies. The law goes on to emphasize the 'knowing your customer' principle, as the case-rapporteur pointed out. Third Directive on money laundering contains rules on control measures to be carried out against customers. A central principle of the Directive is that institutions and persons should identify customers and also confirm their identity. Current customer identification rules are replaced by more comprehensive and detailed customer review requirements. It is not least in relation to the handling of personal data that it should be done in a sound manner that does not violate central data protection interests. As the rapporteur, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, has explained in a very good way in my opinion, there is a great deal of agreement in the setting in most areas. The Committee has been divided into sections. 5.2 as regards the issue of the exchange of confidential information with other entities in the same financial group. The Progress Party and the Right shall, through comments and legislative proposals, open up the possibility for reporting agents included in a financial group to exchange, without prejudice to professional secrecy, the choice of the level of customer control with other reporting agents in the same group. Here, as was referred to, the parties of government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have a common note that reflects the need to ensure and safeguard privacy in a safe and secure way. In the view of the majority, these questions need to be examined in greater detail through the work of the Banking Act Commission on new financial legislation before reaching any other conclusion, not least on the question of demarcation. As far as I am aware, the work of the Banking Law Commission should be clear during the summer. From the government parties, we see that the exchange of information in isolation can be resource-saving and contribute positively to the fight against money laundering. But here, there's different considerations that have to be balanced against each other. There are important privacy and legal certainty considerations behind the confidentiality provisions. It is also such that privacy considerations, as in this case, may conflict with other important societal considerations. This is the main reason why government parties will have a broader assessment through the work that, among other things, The Banking Law Commission is doing in relation to the joint investigation of new financial legislation. Then I understand that there is a desire to clarify these questions as soon as possible, and this work should, in my opinion, be given high priority. In the Progress Party and the Right proposal, the right to exchange information is limited to the financial group only. If we're going to go further along this line, it's not given that this is an appropriate delimitation. I would like to point out that, for example, if we are to focus on resource saving and combating money laundering, savings banks within the same savings bank grouping or reporting agent that are part of a group but not a financial group should also be considered with regard to access to the exchange of such information. Where this limit should, where appropriate, be drawn, as mentioned earlier, should be further investigated where privacy considerations are, on the one hand, weighted against the tools necessary for the detection of money laundering and this type of crime. Finally, I would recommend Odelstinget to vote against the minority's proposal to amend Section 20, where they propose a new paragraph in the case of reporting agents included in the financial group. In the other areas, as mentioned earlier, it is a unanimous attitude, which I recommend to Odelstinget to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e127	The representative Jamessen has also expressed the great consensus in this matter. I only have a comment, or a question, to his posts. He's talking about the minority proposal, which the majority opposes, but as I perceive he can at the same time really imagine considering if it was only extended to the other groupings that he's talking about in his post, but of course with the wish of an investigation of this as well. Does that mean that he is voting against, but is really in favour of the intention of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e132	I just want to say that here are the conflicting considerations to be taken care of. In the NOU and in the sample work, privacy considerations are strongly promoted, but I see that there are assessments that allow one to land on this, and that it may be tempting to go further. But it's not really figured out in the NOU that exists, among other things. what I've raised about the question of delimitation. I think we're going to have a real round of consequences in terms of privacy, but also that consideration that is bounding. I see it can be arguments for both. I want to have a proper round at the Banking Act Commission and have all aspects of the issue assessed – both privacy considerations, professional secrecy and the fact that this law should also be resource-saving and that money laundering should be detected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e137	So now it's the way one of the same financial groups shouldn't be able to report from one department to another. If it is one that appears on a list, due to suspicions such as: whitewashing, which should be followed closely, should therefore not be able to report the name and personal data of another department of personal data protection. I wonder if it would have been possible to get a little closer to what one is afraid of. If anyone is suspected of doing money laundering, what negative consequences would my representative, Mr Jakobsen, have had the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right that information on him is given to another department within the same group be agreed, and that one might have expanded it at a later date?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e143	The main reason is that there should be an overall review of a demarcation issue, whether it is now within a savings bank grouping or there is another group that is not the financial group. They come in the same situation. So here one picks out a specific group, a financial group, and says that for the financial group, individual companies should be free of personal data. There's a point that you get a total round on this. It has not been assessed by the sample, and in the work that has been done, the Data Protection Authority has been very critical in many areas in terms of data protection. What I think is important is to get an overall review, and then you might conclude after a broader assessment, as the Banking Law Commission brings over the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e150	The minority of the Right Party and the Advance Party have tried to get Jacobsen's representative to say in reality that if we first break privacy, we get to do it properly in several areas, and that's his real concern. I understood his posts rather so that here privacy is so important that if you are going to break privacy and taushets, it must be better clarified and very well justified. It is such that privacy is always a good argument for breaking. There is always a good intention behind breaking privacy. This is what has caused the Director of the Data Protection Authority to call it ‘the tyranny of good intentions’ – for the sum becomes inconvenient to privacy. Can the representative confirm that, in the further assessments, the interest in privacy will be very strong and very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e159	I just want to say, as I said earlier, that privacy must be maintained, and we should be very clear that it will not have a significant impact on the individual if we are to expand this in relation to what is in today's proposal for a law. I think that should be the starting point. So I'm open and honest that there are two reasons that we have to weigh against each other, but I can confirm that privacy considerations are going to be very strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e166	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e169	The continuous focus on economic crime is extremely important. It is absolutely necessary to ensure good social morality, and it is absolutely necessary to ensure fair competition. For a long time, there has been a strong search for money laundering – the fight against black money, to put it simply. What has become even more urgent in the last year, and which is even more difficult and important, is the need to prevent terrorist financing by organisations and people with the greatest intelligence. The current legislative proposal continues the key elements of the current law on money laundering, requiring financial institutions and some others to carry out customer reviews in accordance with the «know your customer» principle and to report suspicious transactions to Ecocrim. After the bill, dealers of articles shall continue to be subject to the Money Laundering Act in the case of cash transactions of NOK 40000 or more. In order to limit the administrative burden of the law, the Committee agrees that one should not follow up a proposal from the legislative committee that the dealers should carry out customer checks in all cash transactions above NOK 40000. This shall continue to apply only in cases where the transactions are suspicious. Otherwise, dealers are only allowed to carry out customer checks in case of transactions above NOK 100000. I would like to add a comment to the limit of NOK 100,000. Payment with cash up to NOK 100000 is not suspicious in itself. It's an honest thing how to keep your money. We know that there are different cultures around the country in that area, and I'm very happy that there is a regulatory framework here that will lead to the introduction of cancers where the need is greater. I would just like to conclude by saying that, in the opinion of the Committee, the legislative proposal takes into account the fact that the processing of personal data required by the law takes place in a way that does not irresponsibly infringe central privacy interests. This was also recorded in the line change in front. The term ‘indefensible’ is a decent concept, and it is then a great responsibility for public authorities to monitor the practice of privacy and to ensure that resources are deployed against those persons and businesses that are most difficult to reveal – I stress the most difficult to reveal. This also facilitates the protection of privacy by not giving such focus to the many who are the main challenge in this area, through black and illegal activities and also the financing of terrorism. The purpose of the entire proposition is to help make it harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e192	I just feel the need for a perhaps a little curious clarification. I understand that the representative Lundtigen says in his mention of the financial limits that he is happy that they are determined as they are. I fully agree with him, but he also says that you keep your cash in different ways around the country. At least that's how I perceived his post. This means that Lundtegen in subsequent assessments of e.g. changes in these limits, do we have to take geographical considerations into account when setting such limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e201	What was my point is that there are different cultures for how to manage their values. Some manage them in real estate, assets – others in dollars. Some manage their values in banks, some keep them in safes. It's not related to geography. It is linked to different experiences, different attitudes to money. My point was that paying with cash up to NOK 100,000 could not possibly be something suspicious in itself. I wanted to stress that the authorities need to focus on the major issues and the difficult issues – these are simple things to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e206	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 279]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e216	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e223	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e948	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e957	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-10-lower.ana.ud754e988	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
