ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e22	The representative Per Ove Width, who has been authorized, has again taken the seat. From the representative of Ola T. Lånke, there is an application for leave from 13 May to 20 May to take part in an official visit to Chicago, USA. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. The representative of Vara is Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth, who is called to meet during the period of leave. Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth will be elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola T. Lånke.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e48	Solveig Kopperstad Bratseth is present and will take the seat. The representative, Erna Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e53	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Olemic Thommessen, Torbjørn Hansen, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Martin Engeset and myself, I will be allowed to make proposals for a strong commitment to occupational training and skills enhancement for workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e58	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e61	On behalf of the representatives Leif Helge Kongshaug, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to propose a professional investigation into cod-free areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e66	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e69	On behalf of the representatives of Dagfinn Højbrätten and the undersigned, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to develop a gross national quality of life target as a complement to gross domestic product in order to ensure better consistency between policies and the quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e74	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e100	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Knut Storberget State Council Terje Riis-Johansen State Council Anniken Huitfeldt The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to those who have notified them in advance, wish to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e119	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Immigration in Norway is taking on massive proportions. In Oslo you have passed a share of 25 p.m., in my own hometown 20 p.m. This poses a number of problems and challenges. In particular, there is a problem of women's vision in many Muslim men, and this is an area under the Council of State. We have problems with violence against women, we have coercion with subsequent rapes, assaults, hi-abstinence, circumcision or sexual mutilation, women who are kept at home by coercion, and women who are not taught Norwegian. The last Sentio survey shows that a large majority of the Norwegian population are now opposed to immigration, and in particular Muslim immigration. These are issues where the Council of State has been silent for a long time, and at least no concrete action has been taken, as we in the Progress Party have noticed. But on Monday, the Council of State broke the silence with its solutions to this problem. She told VG that some of the solution here, for the immigrants, was that they would pick up more in the nursery, take the dishes and replace diapers. Some of us would say that in terms of these major, serious problems, the Council of State solution is a rough record bomb. My question to the Council of State is: Does she think that these measures first break into the private sphere and secondly are suitable to solve these serious problems in the immigration sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e130	The question of the allocation of work at home and gender equality at home is also concerned with gender equality in society. If a girl with a minority background learns that it's the father who decides the most, and she's trained to look down when there's an older man who talks, it's hard to get ahead in society. If a young boy learns not to respect his sisters at home, he will lose it in the meeting with society. We've seen in the last few years how gender equality at home is a prerequisite for gender equality in society. Now we have statistics that show that in couples who share their homework at home, there is less violence than in other couples, in couples who share their homework at home, there are less divorces, and they have more children. I am convinced that home equality is an important prerequisite for equality in society. We've done a lot of other things, too. We have launched several measures in the fight against coercion. There has never been such an offensive effort on this. We have introduced a health check for those who come from countries where there is extensive sexual mutilation. Equality at home is also about equality in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e137	I record in the VG that the Council of State's demands for collection in kindergarten, diapers and dishes are also applicable to Norwegian men and not just immigrants. I believe that politicians should stick to the problems of public space, and of course also of violence and crime. I wonder how the council will control child care, diapers and dishes. Will there be home visits from official inspectors? Can I, for example, as a granddaughter with a son of 16 months, get a plus in the book for buying a dishwasher? How many diapers do I have to change per person? the day before the Council of State approves this? And in the case of babysitting: does it count e.g. That I can't be picked up in kindergarten when it's an evening meeting in Stortinget? Or will I get removed from the Council of State in this area when she comes home to me and controls?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e144	I do not know what kind of arrangement is practised in the big group of the Progress Party, but in the big group of the Workers' Party at the time I was in this house, at least emphasis was placed on getting replacements first if you were to pick up at kindergarten. I do not intend to control Norwegian families. I've been thinking about having the same discussion among minority families that we've had in Norwegian society in the last 20 years, and that has resulted in a very big change in the human role. No one is doing so much for their children, and is picking up as much in the nursery as Norwegian men. I want the same discussion in the whole community and I say this should apply to all men. This has led to Norwegian women now at the European top, both in terms of professional participation and the number of children born. So equality at home is a prerequisite for us to achieve equality in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e151	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first, Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e154	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State will not go into the homes and control. That really sounds convincing. But is that not really what the Labour Party and the Council of State are doing with all the support schemes and other arrangements in their family policy? Almost all of them – perhaps outside one, namely the cash support – provide guidance on how to set up. They're just putting a lid on the freedom of choice that families actually have. If you don't want to go into private spaces, if you don't want to go into family decisions about how to arrange your daily babysitting, who should be at home, how to deal with it, then you shouldn't be betting on schemes that actually don't take the lead, and that have no recipe on which choice the state wants you to do – like the cash support, which is actually such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e163	The Dad quota is such a scheme. It allows fathers who want to take responsibility for their children to do so, because we know that employers tend to discriminate against men who want to take more responsibility at home. Therefore, it acts as a negotiated right. It has been unclear whether the Right is in favour of or against this Dad quota. The right voted against. So right, along with the Advance Party, write that this is for the families to decide for themselves. It said the Right of the Storting yesterday, while the Advance Party has always been against the Dad quota and says this is an intervention in the inner affairs of the families. My dad's quota is leading a more equal family life. But at the end, it's about Dad's freedom of choice to take the responsibilities he wants to take home, and it's given phenomenal results over the last few years. No one makes up as much at home as Norwegian men.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e173	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e176	I would like to follow up with another question about domestic intervention, but which is even more serious than the division of labour between the sexes, namely, the question of where a child is going to live. Today’s newspaper reads that the government in the proposal for a new child law opens the way for the courts to judge the sharing of care for a child after a divorce. It is serious if this is the case. In cases where there is initially a high level of conflict between mother and father, the government will be able to decide where a child should live — in a situation where there is already a conflict. It's very best for a child to have one home. It is very good to share care with some families, but it requires a very strong and good cooperation between mother and father. That's why it's hopeless to talk about the child's best and judge care where there's a big conflict. Can the Council confirm the existence of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e185	The national meeting of the Labour Party has taken a decision on this matter. The government will promote a proposal for the Storting during the spring. The representative says it's very best for a child to have one home. That's a very normative statement. The national meeting of the Labour Party has stressed that, if it is for the best of the children, there shall be an opportunity for the court to judge the place of residence divided, and this is consistent, inter alia, with: what the Children’s Ombudsman thinks. We don't want a divided residence as a main solution. The government has said that before in the proposal for a human message, which was dealt with in the Storting yesterday. But the National Assembly of the Labour Party has therefore said that we will give the courts limited access to judge divided residence, if it is for the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e192	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e195	I don't think the left shares the picture of the Progress Party of that 25 pst. The population of Oslo consists of oppressed women who cannot Norwegian, who are beaten and who are not given the opportunity to develop. But we see that in many environments, women need to be given a professional career and the opportunity to develop their skills in Norwegian society. In view of that, it is important to give them that particular opportunity. It is important to focus on Norwegian education, and it is also important to focus on education. But the Council of State is trying to influence this with a index finger instead of referring to all the good examples that actually exist in this area. There are very many good people who stand for good things on the integration side, who would have needed a push in the back rather than a index finger in the throat. Does the Council of State realize that she is on the wrong path when she uses her index finger before she uses a push in her back?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e202	I visited a minority family on Sunday. Dad did a lot of housework there. I said this is positive. It's not using a index finger. That's drawing out the good examples. The new generation of minority fathers has just realized that. They thrill baby carriages like never before, and they want to take more responsibility at home, because they see that equality at home is a prerequisite for the children to do well in society. When they see a father participating, it means a lot to the girls going out into society, in school and in the workplace. So I fully agree with the representative that you should draw out the good examples, and that is what I did when I visited this immigrant family on Sunday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e209	First, I have to say that the government council is wrong when she says we're against Dad's quota. What we want is that families themselves should be allowed to choose what solution they will have in terms of their maternity leave. So it is also that it was strictly not our fathers who taught our men to be good at home. Then I think that talking about diaper changes and that the government council – like the Left – comes with the index finger, is completely wrong when there are so many other unresolved things within the immigrant homes. For example, we know, and the Council of State knows and tacitly accepts, that immigrant women go home and cannot Norwegian, that they are oppressed by their husbands, and that they are subjected to both sex mutilation and violence in close relationships. When will the Council of State do anything about this? We've heard about selection. When will the Council of State do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e216	I encourage the representative to read the Government's action plan both in relation to violence in close relations, in relation to forced marriage, and in relation to gender mutilation. There has never been more offensive work in relation to this. Then it is strange to note that the representative believes that the family should decide for itself, but that one should be for father's quota. Dad's quota means there's one quota reserved for father. That means Mom can't take it. So it's a little weird for me to figure out how to have a dad's quota that's going to be voluntary. Well, that's not Dad's quota, because this is a negotiated right that can only be used by Dad. That's what's Dad's quota. That quota we have doubled during the period we have been sitting – from five weeks to ten weeks from this summer – and in the big news about the role of man, we announce a further extension to 14 weeks. I'm proud of that, and it's the Progress Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e223	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e226	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. It is well known to most of the industrialised countries that today’s government won the previous major elections by a promise to offer Norwegian industry power at below market prices. This has turned out to be the largest election blow in the past, but it was very effective. You've got large numbers because of this promise. It may have been discovered that the Norwegian industry has failed, but now it is about looking forward, and for the red-green government it is about trying to recapture the stumps. The fact is – when we look back – that those who do not take pride in the government’s previous promises are the ones who have become winners and who have settled in the commercial market, while all the companies that pride themselves on the government have become losers. In fact, today's government has made the situation much worse. The system of withdrawals has been abolished, and the power of the Norwegian industry has been taken away from them. No new energy has been put in place for the industry in Norway, and even through the proposal in the proposal we have in the committee, we are now performing to rent out hydropower for 15 years, when the entire Norwegian industry demands a minimum of 30 years. So the government says, we haven't given up. Now we're going to get new solutions. It's a budget leak that says $40 million. kr. It shows that this is not a consortium model, but a so-called de minimis scheme. The word is very comprehensive. This means that if the entire Norwegian industry uses the scheme, they get a price reduction of 0.1 cents. The group director of Fesil Energy calls this political cosmetics. Is the group energy manager in Fesil not correct? Isn't this for political cosmetics to count?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e237	Last week I had a visit by the management of Finnfjord Smelteverk in Troms. There was a visit that, among other things, I assumed that we allocated 175 million. kr to this industrial enterprise in order to ensure that it adapts to the energy challenges in the future. This is an excellent example of the energy policy of Regestinga – a policy such as: is about ensuring conversion within industrial enterprises, so that they are adapted to a future where energy is going to become even more important than today. There's only one proof that when the representative Kristiansen says that a lot has gotten worse in this government's period, it's completely wrong. The energy policy presented by this government consists of many elements. Access to safety is a vital prerequisite for localising enterprises in Norway. We've gotten more power into the market now. We see long-term contracts being concluded, and we see that the industry values the work being done in relation to Enova and energy conversion. We also see that we have a share of the long-term market on the contract side, which gives predictability. So I totally disagree with Mr Kristiansen's claim. I also believe that what is said about the purchasing consortium is wrong. Here we've had a process over a long time. We have now come up with a scheme that allows industrial companies to join forces and form a purchasing consortium, negotiate favourable power agreements on market-based terms. We will also continue to work on what applies on the warranty page related to purchasing consortia. So I believe that the representative of Kristiansen's claim is wrong, and I believe that a lot has been done during this period to ensure that the framework of energy and industrial policy is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e249	I find it deplorable that, with open eyes, a strong attempt is being made – even if we are soon in a hectic election period – to trick Norwegian industrial workers again. One performs to say that much has been done by the Norwegian Government in these four years, but it must hardly be just parts of the Government that seem to be the case. Hasn't the Council of State found that on 3 June this year we will have a two-hour strike, where all industrial workers in Norwegian industry go to the serious instrument of protesting against the elections in 2005? Hasn't the Council of State Riis-Johansen even realised that the main sponsors of the Government Party are now protesting against the 2005 election blow? Is it so to understand that with open eyes one is actually willing again to trick Norwegian industrial workers into voting red-green even in future elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e256	How the representative of Kristiansen, based on my answer instead, can think that I'm putting up to trick the voters, to me, is completely incomprehensible. I believe this is a sober description of what has been done in this period. So I see, as the representative of Kristiansen, that there is an commitment to the treatment of the fall-back scheme by the Stortinge. It's an engagement that's been there for a long time, with which we're both well acquainted. I see that there has been a desire on the part of industry to have a longer period of time for the rental scheme. It is a legitimate position for which there are good arguments and objections. The government has made a proposal of 15 years, and the reason for this is that there is a balanced solution for both the conclusion of contracts that have a certain duration and at the same time ensure that the lease arrangement is a real rental relationship and not in practice a ownership relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e261	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e264	The government's promise to introduce an industrial power regime, or something like that, has been promised and repeated over the past three and a half years. The paradox is that repeatedly members of the Government have said that this has now been introduced. Former Minister of State Enoksen, former Minister of State Haga and former Minister of Industry Andersen have said that now it is considered that the promise of an industrial power regime has been fulfilled. It has been said in the lawn outside when there have been demonstrations, and it has been said in Storting's Question Time. Time and again, the industry says they don't think this has been fulfilled at all. There is no industrial director or trade union leader in Norway who believes that the Government has fulfilled its promise. When one in addition says that the 15-year rental scheme is part of this package, when, at yesterday's hearing in the Energy and Environment Committee, we were confirmed by industry that 15 years is not interesting for any industrial enterprise, I have to ask: does the Council of State feel that he has at all some directors or trade union leaders on the team when he now says that this is a future-oriented solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e269	I perceive that there is a great interest in concluding long-term power agreements in the industry. I believe that there is a great deal of interest in making use of the considerable resources that the Government has now made available to the industry to change the energy policy of the individual enterprise. I believe that there is a perception in the industry that predictability in this policy area is important in relation to localisation in Norway. So, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen also addresses, there are different assessments of individual issues, such as: the case is an example of the case. This does not mean that one here does not have an input on a common understanding of industrial policy and long-term power agreements, for example. With regard to the specific matter, the government has concluded that a balanced solution is 15 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e276	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e279	I've been listening to the Council's answers. There are important answers, for this concerns many thousands of jobs in the power-intensive industry. We have clear promises from Jens Stoltenberg from 2005 that we will gain power at below the market price. Yesterday, Stein Lier-Hansen said: I can't say with my hands on the heart that the government has led a clear industrial policy. On Friday, the government comes with a package, and about the leaks that have occurred, through the Prime Minister, Leif Sande says that this is not good enough, that this is not enough, because it requires State guarantees for billions if Norway is to use the French model. So we need power. My question to the Council of State is simple: How will the Government acquire this power, so that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's words from 2005 become reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e290	Last night I gave a concession to a new wind turbine on the list. That's one example of how to get power. It means dealing with applications, and that means reinvigorating the market. We see that on the hydropower side we have regained power into the market, concessions on approx. 2,5 TWh during this landfill period. New power comes into the market, the industry has access to power, and we have predictability around power policy in Norway that is not at all backward for other countries. Then we're also going to make sure that the industry uses the power more effectively than it has done in the past. I believe that the representative Holten Hemdal agrees with me that entering into and making energy efficiency improvements, making concrete improvements in the individual business, releasing energy in this way, is an important measure, both from the perspective of industrial policy in the future and from the point of view of climate policy. The sum of this is more energy available and more efficient use of energy in Norway. It's good for the industry, and it's good for the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e297	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e300	When the textbook on lifting breakage is written, the lifting break associated with industrial power will be the example of crown failure. It would have been tidy by the Government to admit that one promised something that one has not been able to deliver. The only positive one can say about that lifting break is that it has been a good stimulus for the transport industry in Foreign Norway, for they have repeatedly transported thousands of industrial workers to Oslo to demonstrate against the Government's lifting break. There'll be new bus trucks on June 3rd, and that's a good reason. Now Stortinget is discussing the period for renting power. The government has proposed 15 years. The Labour Party proposed 30 years at its national meeting. It is in line with the wishes of industry and trade unions. Now we get to know that the government wants to maintain the proposal in 15 years, and not what is the new position of the Workers' Party. Is it the Minister for Oil and Energy who once again blocks a solution that industry and trade union movement want?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e307	I do not have any more comments on the Government's proposal on the rental arrangements relating to repatriation than that the proposal that the Government has made lies in the Stortingen and is under consideration. I don't think there's any eye-catching in it. As I also said earlier, I believe that it is a balanced and good follow-up to a very good proposal made by the Government last year, and a very important decision taken by the Stortinget last year in connection with the fall-back scheme, a system in which the Left has a proud history, but which the Left did not follow up last autumn to secure the fall-back regime in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e313	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e316	When even the main sponsor of the Government goes out so strongly and accuses the Government of the breach of promises and election and even goes to the step of announcing a political strike, then the Council of State should stand upright and admit what has actually taken place. What was the case was that Stoltenberg I clearly stated that an industrial power regime was to be established that would give industry long-term sustainability. Rolf Terje Klungland, who was then the Energy Commissioner of the Workers' Party, said that securing cheap electricity for the powerful industry must be the first task of the red-green government. The former party leader of the government, Haga, answered in 2005 questions from Stavanger Aftenblad about cheap electricity to the power-intensive industry: just. Isn't it time to complain that all the red-green parties led the voters behind the lights in 2005, take the blame you should take on, and now meet the voters with blank, new cards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e323	What the representative of Skovholt Gitmark here refers to – i.e. an industrial power regime that can provide industry with a long-term perspective – is precisely what we are working on, and on which I believe we have achieved concrete results, both in terms of energy supply, in relation to support schemes for shifting energy use in individual businesses and also through the fall-back scheme, which ensures stability in relation to ownership and allows industry to share ownership through the means of conversion. So I disagree with the premise for the question to the representative of Skovholt Gitmark. I believe that we have worked a lot and delivered results in relation to industrial and energy policy, and that this is precisely what creates the long-termity that the representative is after.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e330	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e333	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The recent report from the Government's distribution selection suggests that kindergartens have an impact on social differences later in life. According to the selection, parents should send their children to kindergarten as early as possible because the children are told to do so. There is nothing in the report that suggests that waiting with a full-time nursery until you are three years old has negative consequences for later working life, although the Labour Party and SV believe that all children have the best of being in a full-time nursery from the age of one year. On the contrary, the report shows that removing cash support is unsocial in the short term and that the distribution effects of removing the scheme in the long term are very uncertain. Removing cash support will contribute to a more uneven distribution of income, because it becomes the most useful of families with low incomes. The Christian People's Party believes that the report can act as an order shop, and that the Government here has funded a research scheme that justifies their own ideological struggle against families' freedom of choice. The result is no improvement on the open left-wing or SV sympathizers. TNS Gallup has carried out a query that indicates that if the cash support is removed completely, only about 20 pst. of those receiving cash support today, choose kindergarten. For the remaining 80 pst. So such a decision will only lead to a sluggish economy. Cash support is most important for those who have the least and allows more parents to choose to stay home with the smallest children. Will the Council of State really punish all parents who want to be home anyway, by taking from them over $3,000 a month?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e350	First of all, I want to give families the freedom of choice to choose kindergarten. There has been the most important change in this period, that those who choose kindergarten can have that opportunity, and those who choose to be at home can have that opportunity. In 2002 it cost NOK 4 700 for a kindergarten in my municipality. Without the nursery agreement, it would have cost 13 000 kroner to have three children in kindergarten. Today it costs $5,100. This means that it is no longer unprofitable for women to go out to work. So freedom of choice is guaranteed through kindergarten. But we have a cash support. It has been up to discussion on several occasions. It has had many unintended effects. Among other things, several reports suggest that it keeps minority women back at home. What I'm concerned about is getting better transitional arrangements between maternity leave and working life. Today it's like getting kindergarten legal from August 1 every year, but for those who have children maybe in February, there's a glitch there that we have to take into account when we develop a good kindergarten policy. We've expanded the maternity leave, and we've seen in the past what extended maternity leave has resulted in. This has led to much more people taking this out during reduced working hours. So I'm primarily concerned that the families of children are going to have more time, that it is going to be more liberal in everyday life. Those who want to be at home can choose that, but the prerequisite for freedom of choice is that we who want to do so have the right to babysitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e361	I see that we also have minority women in the gallery today. I thought it was nice to see that they too are involved and follow the debate here. Cash support is often referred to as a problem of integration. I thought you should talk to a lot of minority women, and not to. It is very important that we facilitate good integration, but thus say that those who have a minority background should not be allowed to benefit from cash support because it may not lead to their going into business when they receive cash support, is to want to remove an entire scheme without looking at what it is that young children want. We know that 40,000 would like to benefit from cash support, and getting an affordable and good nursery place has been done by the Christian People's Party. Should the freedom of choice become real, it must be possible to choose between a good nursery place at a reasonable price and cash support. So to facilitate it, but at the same time to remove the cash support, is to address the problem at the wrong end. One knows that if one removes the cash support, it means that many of those who have poor advice get even worse. That doesn't mean that: [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e376	Saying that the Christian People's Party in the last government period went into the brink of cheaper kindergartens, is probably a truth of modification. The then municipal minister Erna Solberg said that this was the example of an old Stalinist policy when we decided that kindergarten prices would go down in line with the intentions of the kindergarten agreement. That's why cheaper babysitting prices are very important. I'm busy getting more minority women out into work. That's why I want minority fathers to take more responsibility at home, and that's also why I want to make arrangements for more minority women to get into work. It's about free core time in kindergarten, it's about increasing emphasis on Norwegian education, because integration into the labour market is important to join the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e383	There will be three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e386	It's interesting to hear that the Council of State thinks we have freedom of choice when we actually have one thing to choose from, namely kindergartens. On previous questions to the Council of State, and also now, we heard that the Council of State really doesn't believe in freedom of choice. Governments, on the other hand, believe in the socialist project, where the state is going to raise our children to become good citizens. When we hear the red-green when they talk about cash support, it sounds as if it lasts until the children have confirmation. So that's not the case. It's about two years in a very small child's life. How dare the Council of State talk about considering removing the cash support when you have as much research as you do in all directions about the consequences of the very smallest children, i.e. children from one to three years of age, being in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e395	This shows the inconsistency in the policy of the Progress Party. In the previous round, you were for dad's quota, but also for freedom of choice. You are for immigrant women to participate in the labour market, but you are also for more cash support. Policy needs to choose from time to time. I want to stimulate a policy where fathers take more responsibility at home. We're not going to force anyone, we're going to have a policy that stimulates this. I want to facilitate a policy that gives everyone who wants to, the right to kindergarten. It's not coerced, there's no one forcing you, but freedom of choice is guaranteed by everyone having this right. So here's a political disagreement between us. I'm busy increasing the leave. We had a discussion in Stortinget about it yesterday. The progress party is not very concerned about this – they are primarily concerned about the cash support. I'm busy having longer leave, because I've seen that it leads to a better distribution of work at home and also allows you to get a slightly softer transition, because many of these families think it's hard to go out into work when the child is one year old.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e405	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e408	This debate reflects quite well, I think, the political differences in the real will to give some freedom of choice. I just think we can see that the Workers' Party is standing on its feet and I do want the freedom of choice to be limited to relatively few choices of what the Workers' Party and the Government believe is the right thing for us. But I think it is an interesting point that has emerged, and that is the desire for flexibility. Is not the cash support really a very good arrangement in terms of flexibility? Isn't it true that everyone has a nursery place ready just when the child is one year old? Is not the cash support really a pretty good arrangement to provide better room for the transition that the Council of State – correctly – points to can be distorted, and that, for practical reasons and also on the basis of the desire for care, can be difficult to deal with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e415	Cash support is almost not used by those who have two-year-olds. Where cash support is used today is in the transition between maternity leave and working life – those who have a child in February. I want to put in place good transitional arrangements. Some have criticised me for it and say I am out of line in equality policy. But I'm concerned that the principles of equality are going to be related to people's everyday lives. I am committed to improving transitional arrangements. It's nice to work, but many families where both mom and dad work full time, it seems hard to go to work when the kid is one year old. Now, when we're expanding the leave by another two weeks, as we do from 1 July, as I announced in the human message, which is opposite to the other right, we're adding, among other things. facilitating a more flexible transition between maternity leave and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e420	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e423	Today we were told that freedom of choice is to be able to choose kindergarten. But if you're going to choose, you're going to have to have a different option. Otherwise, there is no freedom of choice, and that is the whole point of being able to fight both for kindergarten and for cash support. I want to remind Stortinget that the reason that Erna Solberg and Laila Davay did not primarily work for cheaper kindergartens was that we thought the pressure had to be on getting more places, so that you really had a real choice. I meet many upset parents who experience this government's we-know-best attitude as quite provocative. They want to be allowed to set up their lives with the choice between good kindergartens and cash support in a good way, and now they want to remove the cash support. What you should do is follow the Christian People's Party programme to increase cash support, so that there is a good choice between good kindergartens and a cash support. Why would you want to take that choice away from the 80 pst? Who wants this as an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e430	I want to ask you a question about whether it was freedom of choice when the Christian People's Party put in government – NOK 13 000 in kindergarten prize for three children! The alternative was a black day’s mother, as many people used, or it was to be home if you were given cash support. It is clear that at the time it was unprofitable to have children in kindergarten. At least it wasn't freedom of choice. So the prerequisite for freedom of choice is that anyone who wants it should be entitled to kindergarten. So parents can choose differently. But I'm primarily concerned that all those who work, also get the opportunity to be more with their kids, because it's a tough everyday thing to get into the crowd too many. That is why I am concerned with good transitional arrangements between maternity leave and working life, so that not every day becomes so strenuous for the normal family.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e435	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e438	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. There is a broad consensus that the government’s policy on renewable energy production has been a failure. In short, it has not produced results. We've had more oil and energy ministers in this period than we've got new windmills triggered by the government's policy. This is a description that the entire industry agrees with, but the government has been holding on to – they believe the scheme they have launched has been successful. In Stortinget on 7 May, former centre party leader and former oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga came with a startling and clarifying statement. She said, ‘The problem is that we have not been able to push forward the renewable policy we should have had, because there have been forces within the government that have made it difficult. There are many governments who would like us to see a stronger renewable policy." Those are strong words, but I think that's a correct description. Now we have been given the explanation why we did not get a set of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden. It was because it was ‘powers within the government’ that did not want it. Through the climate agreement, the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right have helped the Government to resume negotiations with Sweden with a view to obtaining a green certificate package, which will trigger large renewable energy production in a predictable way. My question to the Council of State is: Is it still such that the Government, in terms of renewable energy policy, is in conflict with itself, or can we expect this time that the Government, together and with great force, is behind the work and the desire to get a green certificate set up with Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e458	I could have been short and answered yes to the question from the representative Kvassheim. I'm adding a lot of commitment and energy to get into place a solution to this question. I believe that is an important part of a future energy policy. Not least for the wind effort in Norway, green certificates will be very effective if a balanced approach is put in place, which both Norway and Sweden sees as contributing to the build-up of renewable production and which has the necessary balance between countries to ensure that investments are distributed fairly equally. The latter, of course, is particularly important for Sweden, which has a built-in structure and which has a certificate market that works, and which will then be concerned that a future single certificate market will have the same balance after the investment comes. That's an understandable position. In the case of other renewables, the question is not whether or not that claim comes up in the spontaneous Question Time. The question is what time it comes up. As you can see, the representative Kvassheim's statement here today is an echo of what has been said before, which is not going to be more correct for that reason. To the extent that the representative of Kvassheim believes to be able to use the word ‘fiasco’ about the government’s renewable policy, it is, as I have said very many times before, a harsh judgment on the policy of which the representative of Kvassheim was a part, not least when he sat in the Prime Minister’s office – an important place to be in policy-making – and delivered results at a very different level than that of this government from that of renewable efforts. I do not stop to wonder at the boldness that the representative Kvassheim and others have to just elegantly overlook what the previous government did not do, and at the same time be very hard on the stamping of what this government actually gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e467	Now the previous government had a set of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden, which were ready to be implemented, and which would give a completely different pressure on renewable energy production from what the current government has received. But let's ignore what I mean as an opposition politician. Here we have received a description from a former oil and energy minister, a former head of the Central Party, who says that it is “powers within the government that have made it difficult”. She just says that's why one has not reached the results you want. That's what she emphasizes. I would like to have the oil and energy minister's assessment of whether there is a government in conflict with itself that is the reason why one has not achieved the results that one wishes in renewable policy, as Åslaug Haga claims in the article in the Stortinget to which I referred. Or is she wrong? The other thing I want to ask is: Can he confirm that one has clarified positions in the negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, and that this is not the case, as leaks from Sweden indicate, that Norway encounters unexplained positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e478	With regard to the specific negotiations with Sweden, I ask for an understanding that there are negotiations taking place in the negotiating room, and that there is no natural arena, either here or in the public space, to discuss. What's my position on top of it is that we need to find a balanced solution in line with what I said in my previous answer, where one sees that the sum of expected investments within that part of a common certification market that happens in the respective countries has that balance in itself. Here, too, there is a lot of math in relation to the costs of individual investment, which allows a person to expect that the market will develop in a common balance after the investment takes place. That, I believe, is an important position and an important respect between the two countries that are going to be part of this common licence market. As far as the details are concerned, as I said, I'm asking for understanding that it's not natural to go into it. As far as the second question is concerned, of course, the Government has one policy, a good policy, in terms of renewables.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e486	There will be four follow-up questions – first the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e489	It was remarkable to observe former oil and energy minister Åslaug Haga in free dressage in this room a few days ago and hear the description she had of the government's weak commitment to energy policy. I'm recording that the Council of State denies that that is the case. At the same time, we know that the Energy Policy spokesman for the Central Party on the Stortinget, Erling Sande, has taken a strong attack on the Federation of Nature Conservation and said that they are making the investment of renewable energy difficult. At the same time, we know that the Minister of Energy himself is a member of the Union for the Protection of Nature. So when a complaint about lack of results and the Council of State is still satisfied, it may be that it is because one has cross-cutting interests. The Centre Party's large-scale group has also employed an adviser from the Swedish Nature Conservation Association, and the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Environment has been the head of the Swedish Environmental Protection Association. In fact, the Council of State is satisfied with the results, for example: in the last three and a half years, in relation to how many wind turbines have been realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e498	The question of wind power has also been discussed in this room relatively many times. I have previously expressed an impatience after getting further into that field than we have done so far. I believe that the wind power potential in Norway is much, much greater than what we have been able to realise. We've seen that the costs have exploded in the last few years. Now, in addition, we have had a financial crisis, which has made access to capital go the opposite way. The sum has become that there has been little initial investment related to wind power. That is an objective fact. I'm impatient. I was happy yesterday when I was able to give a concession to Lista and a significant wind effort there. We are working on the strategy for the next wind power step, and I am specifically concerned about getting the projects through. I'm excited about the deadline for Enova's application, which expires on Friday, and what applications for projects are going to be there, and what can also be realised by supporting wind power projects. So, yes, my impatience is great.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e505	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e508	We have thus been found to believe that the predecessors of the Council of State believe that the counterclaims against investing in renewable energy in Norway are internal to the Government. We also note that after four years this government is without energy policy. The opposition has repeatedly put forward proposals for things that should be done and examined in greater detail – let me take a few examples: in terms of networks and developments in order to connect on small power, renewable energy, around this country, but also getting more wired, the Government referred to an energy message. When we proposed updates related to the hydropower in Norway, we were referred to an energy message, and in the spring we were told that there will be no energy message. My question to the Council of State is very simple and straightforward: how does it feel to be Minister of Energy in a government without energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e515	I think it is quite amazing that Solberg's representative can make such a claim and use the Internet policy as an example – an area in which the government in which Erna Solberg sat did little to use a somewhat better input than the representative did – when we have actually now submitted a proposal for revision of the Energy Act, where a new network policy is in place. We give a right of access to small power, which the representative was concerned about, and we say that we are now going to start work to look at the possibilities of common network tariffs across the country – major, important issues – as well as entering into a major revision of the entire network policy. We're doing what Erna Solberg's government should have done. We're doing something to get a better web policy in this country. When it comes to the issue of counterforces, and when it is repeated here that there should be counterforces in this area, I have to say that it is so weak counterforces that we deliver three times as much in terms of economic stimulus to renewable investment as the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e522	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e525	We have to hope that the list will be expanded, because Outer Vikna has had a concession for many years, but it has not been developed because the support system does not meet its objectives. Speaking of renewable investment: The government has a holding in StatoilHydro of 67 pst. StatoilHydro operates with renewable energy, Hywind, but they are mostly mostly oil and gas still. Today's Business is talking about the General Assembly of StatoilHydro for the next week. On questions about the Government will support the withdrawal of StatoilHydro from oil sand production in Canada, State Secretary Kåss replies to today's industry: ‘The business shall fall within the competence of the Management Board. We have confidence in the government. Then it is unnatural that we review the decisions of the board at a general meeting." My question is, is this probably an example of the Government's active ownership policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e537	It's a very good example of the cleanliness of ownership. If the representative Holten Hemdal believes that this hall, or I as the Council of State, should go in and make business assessments in relation to individual projects in Norway's largest company, then I completely disagree. I believe that there is misconception as to how the state should exercise ownership, and I believe that it would be completely wrong in relation to the responsibilities between management, the board of a company and a large owner. We're supposed to be in charge of the general. Therefore, my way of governing is to have a process with the management of StatoilHydro on purpose paragraphs. As the representative of Holten Hemdal may be familiar with, there is also a proposal for this, in which towards the General Assembly there has been work on a formulation related to the breadth of engagement in the energy field of the company. There is a strategic assessment of how the company will position itself in the future in terms of oil and gas against other forms of energy. It's at the level I'm going to rule. It's at the level of state ownership. We're not going to go in and take over the role of the group management, of the board of large companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e542	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e545	First for the sake of history and for the sake of it: the left voted for the fall-back. So to today's debate: we have now had a research minister who wants to deliver research with commitments, but is not allowed. We have had an Environment Minister who wants to deliver on climate, but is not allowed. We have had an oil and energy minister, Åslaug Haga, who would like to, and has been quoted as not being allowed. But now let's test something that can be done – and be constructive. We know that there are better depreciation rates in the petroleum sector than in renewable energy. The Council of State is willing to assess such a concrete instrument for enterprises that will invest in renewable energy by providing them with a separate depreciation rate, for example: on 7.5 p.m., as proposed by the Left? Then we get an automatic in practical life, and we can get results. In addition, such a scheme would be related to the scheme of green certificates, which the Council of State says he is working on. Is this a proposal that the Council of State will look at, simply to get pressure on the work on renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e553	I think it is constructive to try to think about how different solutions can help bring renewable energy into the market. In this way, relationships with tax and accounting matters are also relevant. I also believe the representative of Dørum sees that it is natural to settle that kind of question through state budgets and through the ordinary processes. So what comes from the representative of Dørum is going to be an input into that process more than we're going to make the conclusion here in the main hall today. But in general, I think it's good to think offensively about getting more renewable energy, and I respect that the representative Dørum does too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e558	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e561	The government's instinct was to stay standing – that was well interpreted! There has been a cross-political desire to put more renewable energy in place, not only during this major period, but over many, many years. It is a production that does not generate CO2 emissions and is profitable in many cases – at least Norwegian hydropower has been very profitable. And it's been a bet area for both opposition and government. The government has expressed itself offensively many times. We have heard a lot of boast about the level of ambition, even today. The Council of State said in the previous round of questions that he delivers results far better than the Bondevik II government. In the case of wind power, he may boast of having given concessions, but the answer to how many wind turbines have been built out under his rule is zero. The result is zero. With regard to small power, we see – and that is the main question to be addressed – that the results are similar. Statistics from the NVE, which is thus the government's own body, show that eleven small-scale power plants were built in 2002. 27 small-scale power plants were built in 2005 — the last year of the last government. In 2006, it went down to 23. In 2007 it went down to 13. And in 2008 a small power plant was built – one! So from taking over an upward trend, we have had a downward trend. When we look at small power plants that are not subject to concession, 53 small power plants were realized in the years 2004–2005. In 2007–08, five were realised. It's not because we suddenly lack the potential. The NVE calculated that it is possible to extend 18 TWh, corresponding to approx. 2000 to 3000 small power plants. But you've realized and completed one in the last year. What calculator does the Council of State use when he believes that this is a better result than the Bondevik II government provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e580	In order to keep to numbers, as Solvik-Olsen's representative is doing now, we have an energy result within Enova's territory that so far in our period is on the other side of 6 TWh. While the previous period reached 4.6 TWh over four years, we are now talking in three years. So we have a completely different direction of the total bet within this area than what has been before. In the case of small power, the reality is that it stopped due to a lack of concessional process, a lack of procedural capacity, in NVE. It is a reality. We've done something about that. We've brought in a lot more people, spent more money. I therefore have great expectations – and more than that – that the NVE will be able to realise the small-scale projects to a greater extent than in the past, in the sense that it will be granted a concession. In the case of wind, as the representative also mentions, the fact description here is probably a certain distortion of reality. What is right is that the specific installations to which a concession has been granted during this period have not been completed. However, installations have also been put in place during this period. There are installations to which a concession was granted in the previous period. But we probably have to have some understanding that there's some kind of phase shift here. It takes some time from the granting of a concession until the installations are put into operation. Overall, we have started plants corresponding to 160 MW during this period. We're going to have more installations in place. But the reality is that part of the facilities to which the concession is now granted will be implemented in the next period, as a result of the construction period, as a result of financing challenges, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e589	Actually, the follow-up question should have gone to the Minister of Justice because of a criminally bad attempt to circumvent facts, but I will let the Minister of Energy continue! NVE's statistics are not about the fact that concessions have not been granted, but it is about the fact that many concessions have been granted that have not been realised. When things don't come true, it's obvious because the builder doesn't trust that it will be profitable. Within wind power, three different support systems have had to plan for three years. Each year, the framework conditions have changed. On the other hand, small-scale power plants have not had any framework conditions at all. They have not been included in the agency of Enova, of which the Council of State stands and boasts. When Enova calculates its results, they do not necessarily refer to what has actually been accomplished, but to what has been promised – just as a concession that has been given never needs to be realized. The question then is: will the Council of State at least provide for a slight increase in the growth of the development of small-scale power plants in the next period? And will he ensure that small power plants enter the Enova tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e596	I perceive that there is a significant contradiction in what the representative Solvik-Olsen here says. Firstly, it is pointed out that the uncertainty surrounding the wind support system has caused projects to be put on hold. At the same time, there is a desire to launch a discussion on the small-power instrument, which may lead to uncertainty in this area. Enova’s assessment has been that small-scale power plants are more efficient than, for example, small-scale power plants. wind turbines have been realised because of their market potential. And to the extent that market navigation can take the cost of investments, for example: through small force, I think that's good. I would, in principle, also believe that the Progress Party, at least somewhere in the basic idea, would think that it was reasonable. Then we have to assess the situation of small power plants and the rate of expansion further. But the reality here is that the main incentive that has changed is the energy price and the assumptions that small-scale owners see for themselves can be on the income side attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e601	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e604	Let me start by correcting some of the government's information about earlier. The previous government made its own big message about online policy – just so it’s known from now on. In response to the opposition, a hard-pressed Council of State appears to have very little coverage of the ‘faasko’ characteristic of the Government’s renewable policy. The opposition parties have remained largely notorious for quoting the Council of State's own party traps, and we stick to the facts. I can end with a new quote, which has a shelf life date as on a dairy product, it's only six days old. It is from Ola Borten Moe, who in a renewable debate said the following: "For my own part, I must admit that during this period we have not come to where I had hoped we would be." Does not Mr Moe's statement really clearly explain the characteristics we used earlier in this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e616	The opinion to which the representative of Kristiansen refers is drawn from a debate we had in Stortinget related to the situation in Middle Norway. There's another situation where I think the representative Kristiansen and the opposition are relatively superficial at the entrance, a situation in Middle Norway where, therefore, lack of decisions over time has made us have a lack of force coverage, power balance, today. Then we're working on it in relation to new power lines and improving the energy balance. I understand that Ola Borten Moe and others from Middle Norway are impatient – so am I. But it's not done from one day to another, for example. putting in place power lines from Ørskog to Fardal, which is a major concession process. It involves many municipalities, it involves several counties. So that statement belongs to the context in which it was said: impatience with regard to Middle Norway – an impatience that is more about Worm Lange, about Hydro Aluminium and about Hustad Marble than that it was possible from one day to another to make a decision that turned it upside down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e625	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e628	Those who followed the big debate on May 7th could think it was a mission from the Central Party National Assembly, but it was only central central party people who went to the pulpit and complained about poor energy policies. I would like to ask the Council to consider getting a new battery for their calculator, because the calculations that are being launched are misleading. Among other things, he combines renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement when showing results. If you look at renewable energy production, you haven't delivered, it's the actual conditions. It is stated in the Soria-Moria Declaration that detailed plans for small-scale power should be made to sort between the projects that one should raise and those that should be put on hold for another reason. What is the status of the task of creating state-of-the-art plans for small-scale projects around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e638	I have to go back to the numbers, when the representative Kvassheim says what he does. I can take a concrete example that underpins what I have said here. In the case of renewable heat, which I think the representative of Kvassheim also believes is good in the field of renewable energy, the last government – this is starting to be repetitive after some rounds in Stortinget – 813 GWh in four years. We have now delivered 2 149 GWh in three years. This means, in practice, a tripling within renewable heat, which, for me, is a main field of action within renewable policy – the ability to get chips and timber out of the forest, replace oil fires and the wicking of houses with tiled heating, and thus make a major energy conversion that liberates electricity, for example. for electric cars or for energy use currently managed by fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e643	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e646	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. In the very first questioning session in 2009, the Minister of Justice was confronted with the crisis situation in the police. The government responded by giving the opposition a verbal taste because we raised the issue and created insecurity in the population – as he then expressed it. Then came the financial crisis, then came the confession and the glad tidings of 460 new positions to the police, which, as we have said, are to release 280 police year-olds to prioritized police work. The positions came at a time when there were reports from all over the country of major problems in getting the watch lists to go around, and the police at times were so thinly manned that you could hardly move out when there was crime. If the Council of State does not want to listen to the opposition, he should at least now perhaps listen to his own police officers, who do not conceal that the operating budgets are very scarce – and they shout warnings. In Oslo we have been told that the important rendition project is not working. In Bergen, the police have openly presented their problems to the city council with a clear message that public expectations and politicians need to be reduced. There will be more drugs, more traffic and more serious violence — and fewer police officers to do the job. And the police are familiar with organized crime that there is no capacity to follow up. I assume that the Minister of Justice cannot be satisfied with such a situation. It can't be done by local politicians, and most people can't do it either. Soon four months after the 460 civil positions came, it is still difficult to see their effect. According to the police officers I have spoken to, there are so many leaders around the process that you are now delayed with the announcement and addition. The positions were also to be a supplement to the basic staffing of the police, and to be added as a reinforcement. So my question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State is satisfied with the pace at which civil positions are phased in, taking into account the great need in the police, and whether he thinks he's going to get the expected effect out of the 460 positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e665	I am very pleased that the representative Aspaker asked about the great effort we are now making on the police. And it is quite right, as the representative says, that we do not listen to the opposition, at least not to the proposals that have come from the Right. Just before Christmas, it was suggested from the Right that 160 civil posts should be assigned to the police. The government chose to go significantly higher: up to 460 jobs. It cannot be expected from the Right that when it is decided in February that the Norwegian police will be allowed to hire people in 460 new posts, they will have to be in place a week later. I am very pleased with how the Norwegian police are now dealing with the challenge of manning the Norwegian police so strongly – we get a quarter of a billion, 460 new jobs. In Oslo, there are 100 new civil positions, and we have almost daily control over how that is done. Now you have to clear – literally – the Tinghuset of police officers and bring in civilian detainees. These people need some training, of course, it's a difficult job to handle prisoners. The projects undertaken, including: Along Akerselva, to get some of the visible drug crime more of us are concerned about, what we want to do in relation to recrime, and what you do well in Oslo, and what you do in relation to prostitutes through the Stop project, frees up police capacity, so that we can get more police people to do with what they're actually going to do. This morning I was present at the Police College and got new results from the DNA reform, which we've now also implemented, it's half a year old. We've doubled the number of samples coming in to the police. 50 pst. of which they match. So it's not just on staff that you bet, you bet on technology, too, so that the police will be able to get the percentage of information and get more for the crowns that are granted for investigation. And that's after all 2 billion more dollars the police have at their disposal now than when the Right left the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e674	What the Council of State knows is that in the budget where the Government itself proposed 20 civilian posts, Right proposed 160 civilian posts. We have supported the 460 that came in January, but I still believe that a government that has a majority in Stortinget should be able to add up to another process, where jobs were advertised subject to the approval of Stortingen. That's not an unusual way to do it. What we're seeing now is we're heading towards a summer with closed loner offices, with festivals over a low shoe around where the police are thinner manned than ever. You simply haven't taken the steps that could have been taken to get these civil positions in place faster. I also ask the Council of State if he does not see that the operating budgets of the police, i.e. the basic budget you had before you got the civil posts, are so fucked up that in many places you actually cancel the police and have to leave many posts unoccupied. Then you don't get the effect of the 460 that both the Council of State and the whole Stortinget want.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e681	With respect to reporting, I think this is a reasonable negative angle to a big bet for the police. I remember that when the Right left the government offices in 2005, there were 3,000 people in a payroll queue, who swirled around in society and put more work on the police. That line's gone. It's also the way to hire 460 new ones, which I've been involved in. There are no signs out in police Norway that indicate that that process is waiting, rather the opposite, here there are people employed on running tapes. I also have to say that when it comes to the issue of summer closures of janitorial offices, it is quite common around the country to have changed watch lists in the summer and thus also shut down some of the opening hours. But what we need to make sure is that preparedness is the same, and that, of course, when criminal acts take place, you move out. This was also done when the Right sat in government. It has suddenly become so wrong when it is done, but it is quite common outside and also absolutely necessary to terminate the holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e690	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e693	With all possible respect, it is possible that I am wrong, but this debate I think I have heard before, possibly in the same place and with the same actors. But okay, leave it now. What's a challenge, I think, for the Council of State, too, if the Council of State will be 100 pst. I believe that there is a significant difference between what the Government has presented and what we are dealing with here in the budget position in December and the additional package that was included in January. I'm going to give the government credit for that, but it's also important to be despicable about the premises for the debate here. I think the main challenge for the Council of State is to see what kind of effect we get out of this. Therefore, my question becomes quite simple: can the Council of State guarantee that the 460 civilian posts will provide a strengthening of 460 posts, or is there a danger that some of them will be eliminated due to the lack of real and free means of operation in the respective police districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e702	First of all, I have to say that it is a perfectly correct description by the representative Ellingen of the budgetary position before Christmas. But then the right party wrote that there was a need for 160 new civil positions in Police Norway. So the government comes in February and says 460. That's when I have problems, especially with the Right Party, to say it right out, when it's suddenly too small. So to the question of how many police officers we are able to release using the 460. It's specified in the proposition. It is estimated that approx. 280 years of police work are freed from 460 entries. We are now working towards the police, especially in Oslo, to look at the possibilities of simply increasing that proportion, so that there is a greater proportion of freed police than 280. But that's the estimate. It doesn't go into one for understandable reasons. I am very pleased with how the police districts have accepted these positions. I see that it is now being employed, for example. Here in Oslo, where you really thank you, among others. in the courthouse, to be freed from police force.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e711	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e714	First of all, history. There were 2,400 in the queue at the end of Bondevik II's reign. The queue would probably be gone. But it was the Council of State's job to do it, and he did a good job getting rid of the queue. Well, thank you for that! So, today's debate theme is civil status. I think it's very good that the government took the power they took in the crisis package, but I'm busy, like the other questioners, that we get the effect of it. I'm going to go straight into something that I know very well. I've been out with the police in Oslo for 15 years. I think I know a lot about what the law service in Oslo can mean, and I want to challenge the Council of State to confirm that he will now take an initiative to give policemen on the floor a career path and a building of competence, so they can get pride and the status of being there. I think it's quite necessary to get more police officers along Akerselva. Then I would like to ask directly whether the Council of State can now guarantee, with the high number of civilian positions given to the Oslo police district, that we can actually experience that the police have full control of drug trafficking both at Oslo S and along Akerselva.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e724	I believe that any Minister of Justice should be careful to say that there is full control over crime and crime development. But at my discretion, you have to do the best you can to get the crew up, so that we ensure that there are no manpower problems in relation to the serious crime challenges we have. There are three grips that the Government believes it has been important to implement: One is to build down the reconciliation queue. I think we're going to discuss the numbers a little bit more, but they're probably between the estimates we've made. The second is the recording at Police College, where we now have a record record of 552 students. It's never been so loud before. The doorroom is known to be down in 240 and 360 in the last period of government. The third is these civil positions that are now coming in. Obviously, we're on the verge of getting the most police force out of these. Also, strengthening the officials in the ordinary public service is important, and it is with pleasure that I see that last year's payroll helped to get a lift for just these.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e735	Then the oral question hour is over, and we go over to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e740	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show in that context the overview of the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposes that the changes in today's Question Time be approved. - It's a note. The following changes were made: Question 3, from the representative Morten Höglund to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 4, from the representative Tord Lien to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is being moved and answered by the Council of State on request of Question 10, i.e. at the end of the Question Time. Question 9, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Justice, will be moved from the Council of State to answer question 3, which will be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e756	The question is: ‘The average age of Norwegian passenger cars has been higher than 10 years in recent years. The car park is now getting older, fewer new cars are being purchased, and fewer old cars are being scraped. In the context of road safety and energy/environmental emissions, the age of the fleet is of great importance. Renewal of the fleet may result in much safer transport and fewer accidents. Renewal of the fleet may result in less energy consumption and lower emissions. What will the Council of State do in the short term to bring about a strong renewal of the passenger car park?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e765	I think of my answer in Question Time on 18 March 2009 on the same question. I then said that the Government will continue to use the charging policy to stimulate households and businesses to choose the most energy-efficient and emission-efficient driving equipment possible. It is important to note that it is very energy-consuming to produce a car. From an energy and environmental perspective, it is therefore not obvious that it is effective to stimulate a faster replacement of the car park. On the other hand, it is clearly positive that the new cars purchased in any case are as safe and energy efficient as possible. The CO2 component of the single entry fee stimulates low emissions and low energy use. There are also a number of incentives to choose an electric car, both in the charging system, access to collective fields and the development of charging stations for electric cars. Here it's set of 50 million. kr in the action package from January. I mean, it's not a goal in itself to get the largest possible saddle of new cars in Norway. But it's a clear goal that we can help people choose the safest and most environmentally friendly cars. This will continue to work with the Government. in the light of the decisions taken by the Government Party at its national meetings, and many good professional recordings otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e784	Thanks for the answer. Overview of new car sales in 2009, i.e. this year, shows a decrease per year. ==References== I assume that although the Council of State does not believe it is a goal to stimulate car sales and stimulate people to buy new cars, she has the goal of having a reasonably modern and new car park. When the new car sales fall sharply, there is also a strong signal that the age of the Norwegian car park is on its way up, i.e. in the wrong direction. The government says, and the Council of State says in the answer, that you look at changes in the tax system. While the Government ‘sees’ and works ‘for’, new car sales fail this year, and the age of passenger cars is increasing this year. Why doesn't the government forcefully set up the wrecker, to immediately ensure a strong upturn in the new car sales?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e791	It is not that stimulating new cars necessarily leads to a positive environmental account, which I did well in my main response. When it comes to safety, new cars mainly have better insurance equipment than older cars. Of course, it may also vary, depending on the type of car a car is talking about. Of course, the decline in the new car sales is linked to the financial situation and the financial crisis, which also affects Norway, although we are still less likely to happen than many other countries. While countries around us have large car production, heavy parking, unemployment against 10 pst. We are not in this situation in Norway. So our discussion goes along slightly different lines than in countries it's natural to compare us with in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e796	But we are in this year's situation that new car sales are falling, and that the age of the car park is rising sharply, and then the trend is going in the wrong direction. New car is a safer car than an old car. The Government’s proposal for NTP, which we are now considering, and which will be discussed later in this Chamber, mentions 12 different objectives, strategies and areas of action on road safety. It's a whole 15 pages – I took the trouble to count them yesterday – that deal with road safety on the road. The car, a safe car, is not mentioned in one word. Does not the age of the car and therefore the safety of the car have a central place in the government's measures to improve road safety? Does this mean that there is no mention of the car when it comes to road safety bets, that the government actually believes that it is irrelevant in the work for improved road safety the age we have at the car park?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e803	To that is the answer no. However, the national transport plan is an infrastructure plan. It deals with the development of Norwegian infrastructure – all branches – until 2019. Therefore, the car is not a large theme in the national transport plan either. But he is, of course, in other contexts, either the way we manage our traffic stations, or the way we organize the control companies against cars to ensure that they keep the standard they're going to. As I said in my main response, new measures in this area will be considered in the light of the various parties' national meetings. For my part, it's in our program that we want to increase the wreckage to NOK 40,000. But it is a matter that the government does not have a job position for, and that we will work with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e811	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Roadway 20, such as, inter alia: through the municipality of Våler in Hedmark, was the sixth most dangerous road section in the country between 2002 and 2007. On this 19 km long stretch, seven people were killed during this period, and 32 were seriously injured. Does the Council of State see the need to rectify this stretch, and what will she do in that case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e820	Rv. 20 between Kongswinger and Elverum make up in combination with rv. 2 and Rv. 3 a significant transport year between Møre/Trundellag and south and southeastern parts of Sweden. Rv. 20 have standard variation and traffic load. The current section of Våler Municipality, to which the representative Bredvold refers, has good standards. A large part of the distance has a speed limit of 90 km/h. Traffic varies between 2,300 and 3,900 vehicles per day and thus represents a moderate traffic load on a two-field road. According to the State Road Administration's accident statistics, four people died, and 18 people were severely injured by Rv. 20 for the period 1997 to 2001. Eleven people died, and 24 people were severely injured on rv. 20 for the period 2002-2007. Five of the 11 killed in 2002–07 were killed in a tragic Russian car accident in Våler in 2002. This accident strongly affects the accident statistics for this period. In 2008, six deaths were recorded in Rv. 20, where three were killed in a single accident on 28 May 2008 in Våler. Occurrence is valid for the whole rv. 20, which has a length of about 96 kilometers. This is alarming numbers. I am, as the representative of Bredvold, busy with road safety and will continue to work with road safety on the Norwegian road in the short and long term. The most serious unclosed causes the measures to be corrected in order to reduce the consequences of driving errors. Examples of such measures and corrections on R & D. 20 are speed limit reductions, cross conversion, improvement of lateral terrain and other road safety measures. Greater investment in Rv has not been foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. 20 in the ten-year period. As a framework for the different programme areas, there are 970 million. SEK 320 million. SEK has been set off for route 2b between 2010 and 2013. The priorities within the programme areas will be further clarified through the work of the State Road Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e833	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer, although it did not give any promises about either one thing or another, either in the short or long term, as I see it. There's a lot of accidents on this road, and there's a lot of traffic. Many of the vehicles running here are heavy vehicles, heavy traffic, coming from rv. 3 and will continue either towards Sweden or towards that side of Norway, to put it that way. There's a lot of dangerous traffic, there's a lot of foreign vehicles running here, that's heavy traffic, with drivers who don't know the road. The road has quite different standards when running from Kongswinger towards Elverum. In some places it is 90 km/h, and then of course it is good standard, but then there are other places where the road is both narrow and curved, it is worn out, and there are many wheel tracks in the asphalt, so that it is particularly dangerous to drive there during rain. I would have liked the Council of State to be something more concrete, and could promise at least something for this road section.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e844	We have a system for prioritising commercial investment in this country. Hedmark's performance is a priority task. 20. The progress party in Hedmark does not have a prioritized rv. 20. It is then striking that the representative Bredvold raises the matter to the Council of State, but does not go to his own in Hedmark County to get the matter raised, because that is where that priority is to be done. There, in the county, it's the Workers' Party and the Center's party that have the power to set the rv. 20 on the map and he picked up. I thought that the representative Bredvold should have a conversation with his party colleagues, to follow the planning process that we have in place. I'm listening to Hedmark County. The decisions that come from there and that have come from there have provided the basis for my priorities in the transport policy, both in the national transport plan and otherwise. The county is an important priority arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e851	Now I'm a politician who's looking forward, and I hope governments will. One shouldn't look back at what's done, and what's not done. I want to look forward. That's why I bring this matter up to the pulpit of the Great Britain, so that the Council of State will become more familiar with this dangerous road section, with how bad it is, how dangerous it is, as I said, and how many accidents there are. Accidents have a cost in human suffering, but they also have financial costs. I had hoped, I repeat, that the Council of States could be something more concrete and look forward, and come with something. What the county does, what the Labour Party has done, and what the Center Party has done, it's now okay, but we have to look forward. And in this way, which is not very long, but which causes so many human suffering, and which means so much, between rv. 2 and Rv. 3: Could the Council of State be a little bit more concrete and a little bit more positive about that doing something there?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e858	I am well-informed about the way through the leader of Hedmark state his community committee, Ida Kristine Teien. We have very good contact. I know what the problem is, but I also know that Hedmark has other national roads, which are now going to be county roads, and that the county there has to discuss priorities. Priority is a front-end word in the Progress Party. The party of progress is always giving priority to everything at all times. Today it's Rv. 20, tomorrow there's another way, because that's how it works. And then you might get a local, and then you'll get a nice look at it. And it may be that people then forget that one week ago had a completely different priority. But I, as the government council responsible, must have a line of policy, and that line actually goes through its priorities and over to the state's priorities, and that's what I'm trying to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e868	This question, from the representative Morten Höglund to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e871	‘Iran continues to execute minors or persons who were minors when the crime should have occurred. Norway correctly protests. However, it does not appear that the pressure from Norway and others has a particular effect. The situation in Iran for defence lawyers and other human rights defenders is also very difficult. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs — or in this case the Minister for Justice — think Norway and the world can and should do in relation to the abuses against minors in Iran?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e878	First of all, I want to give tribute to the representative, Høglund, to address this important issue. One of the most important things we can do is actually raise this kind of question in several of the world's parliaments and press it. It's very important. It's a very important look at what kind of criminal sanctions we're going to have when people commit criminal acts, and what kind of legal systems we're going to have. It is a very important part of the development of democracy more places than in the country in question, Iran. I agree with the representative, Mr Höglund, that the serious human rights situation in Iran is continuing. This concerns the number of executions, including by minor offenders — and it is of particular concern — and the situation of human rights defenders, such as lawyers and others. It is often the weakness of dictatorships and other regimes that these groups are so brutally affected. The execution of Delara Darabi on Friday 1st May was so far the last case of executions in Iran by a person who was a minor at the time of the crime. The representative, Høglund, says that Norway correctly protests the situation, but that pressure from Norway and other countries does not appear to have any particular effect. Such an assumption is always difficult to confirm. The situation could have been worse without international protests, so we have to keep the attention – it is therefore good that we have the opportunity to take it up here too – sail if we have to record that the abuse persists. It's just that we just have to keep going, but also look at other channels. In the interests of the victims and their relatives, lawyers and human rights defenders, who put their own risks aside – significant risks – we cannot take the chance of not protesting. Suffering if the protest didn't save Darabi's life, it's important that her case got wide media coverage in large parts of the world, and that human rights champions with great commitment, who were united with her and with national authorities and international organizations in the condemnation of Iran, get all the support they can get. This issue today is also such a support. I believe that a common international commitment to these issues can produce results. Listening protests against ongoing abuse can save lives and have saved lives. Support for individuals can be symbolically important and have a signal effect. We have experienced in several cases where people have been sentenced to execution, that the case has been postponed, and that after some time the persons have been sentenced to another sentence. The attention created by our joint efforts makes it difficult for the Iranian authorities to carry out executions in silence. Norway protests on a principle basis against countries that practice capital punishment against minors, pregnant women and mentally ill, and we protest when people are executed in particularly stalwart ways, such as by stoning. On the Norwegian side, we protest in such cases to the Iranian authorities directly and by joining, among other things. declarations by the European Union. At the same time, we need to focus on the goal. In some contexts, listening to protests can work against their purpose. It can shut down communication channels and put life in jeopardy. That is why we must also use a wide range of foreign policy instruments, and the Foreign Minister took advantage of the opportunity rather recently to respond to the appeals of President Ahmadinejad during the UN Conference of Supervisors against Racism. Responding is of particular importance now that Iran is faced with presidential elections. We will continue to follow developments in Iran and report to the authorities when we consider it necessary and when minors are at risk of being executed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e895	I will first be allowed to thank the Council of State for a good answer. I fully agree that there is attention to these issues that are essential for us to be able to do something about the situation. I think we agree very much. It was not my intention to say that we should stop protesting. That was not the way I understood the Council of State either. But the question is, can we do more? And in the case, what can we do? Coordination of international efforts is important. My point is that at all levels and in all contacts with Iran, we must first assess whether these questions should be raised and then whether we should have this kind of contact. Obviously, it's a balance. We support diplomatic contact, but political contact? My challenge to the Government will then be: Will you go through your commitment to Iran to see at what level this should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e902	I am sure that, in particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an ongoing assessment of the two issues raised by the representative, Mr Höglund, with regard to Iran, but that also applies to other countries where one wants to point out behaviour that violates, among other things. the international human rights. The first is, what kind of contact? It's not just verbal, it's trade and at all. In particular to Iran, it is important that a critical approach is constantly being drawn to the kind of contact you have. So there's also a question about what to say. But I think it's important now, since this execution, among others. was covered in several Iranian newspapers and Iran is in the midst of an electoral campaign, in which the reformist presidential candidate Karroubi and several other reformists recently called for the stop of all the executions of minors, just to be present and express themselves through protest, because it will also give legitimate counter-candidates to the regime, legitimacy in an important battle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e909	I would like to thank you again for the answer, and I would also like to stress, like the Council of State, that not only Iran is the problem, but Iran is one of the worst, not to say the worst, about the executions of minors. I'm not going to ask the Council of State to answer this directly, necessarily, because it's not within what he normally stands for, but Iran has a relatively high profile on the international arena, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs took up protests in a good way, as it was mentioned. In another context, in the UNDP, Iran was given the president around Christmas. Norway abstained. In my opinion, this is about: how do we meet a country like Iran in all arenas? Here, I think we can become even clearer than what we've been so far, even though a lot has been done. It must be a policy context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e918	I just have to agree with the assessments made by the representative. It's really about raising awareness and a critical sense of what kind of contact is, and what you're actually saying. Then I want to add that I think it is very commendable to draw such debates into the Storting. We really have too little of them. There is also a responsibility for other government councils and other parts of the government apparatus to follow up on these kinds of issues. As Minister of Justice, I have had the pleasure of working closely with my colleagues in Europe on these kinds of issues. We don't have to deal with it the same way in European countries. But travelling as international size is becoming more important and more important. It is also one of the major challenges facing us in terms of international agreements and questions about the implementation of human rights, that we are also clear in Norway about how we implement human rights, in order to gain credibility out there. The map is not completed in relation to these issues and international cooperation, both multilaterally and bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e925	We're going to go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e931	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The South-Trøndelag conflict council concluded in March a national project to combat juvenile crime — in cooperation with police, state attorney and local authorities. The project appears to have been successfully implemented. Of the hundreds of young people registered in the measure, there are very few relapses and only four young people have been brought back to the traditional legal system. Will the Council of State take the initiative to enable the South-Trendelag project to be continued and the other conflict councils of the country to take similar action against juvenile delinquency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e940	I could really just black clearly and clearly yes. I am very pleased that the representative Aspaker addresses this question, because I believe that this is one of the important forms of reaction we are facing. It's affordable that the Right does it. I know that for a long time, the Right has had a warm heart for the conflict councils and also for these follow-up teams, and that's very important. We have now had long debates on the question of how to meet children and young people who commit criminal acts. I am absolutely convinced that what is now being done land and beach around the conflict councils, and also in the wake of these follow-up teams, is much of the key here. Many of these young people feel that they are being held responsible, must meet the victim and settle for themselves. It's a very cool reaction. Therefore, there is one reason why the Government has chosen to strengthen the conflict councils, in particular with a view to developing these major meetings. The project to which the representative refers is initially action No. 1 in the action plan ‘Together against childhood and juvenile delinquency’, four three-year pilot projects with local follow-up teams were set up to follow-up each young offender. [[2005-2008]] Follow-up teams would be organised in two different ways, either as an extension of the SLT model, i.e. coordination of local crime prevention measures, or during the conflict council. I just have to say that I have a great sense of the project in the South Trøndelag. South-Tread Teams do a great job in terms of conflict councils, as well as in terms of follow-up teams. I've seen a lot of good examples from there. This project, as the representative of Aspaker points out, has very good results. I can also inform you that precisely because of the good experience with the project, the Municipality of Trondheim and the Ministry of Justice and Police through the Secretariat of the Conflict Council have merged on the financing of the extension of the project in 2009. The project with the follow-up teams has now been evaluated by NTNU after the three-year trial period was over. The evaluation report concludes that ‘follow-up teams should be recommended to continue and further developed’, and that it seems reasonable to add this measure to the conflict council to extend it to a country-by-country basis. The Grand Meeting model, which was central to the follow-up team’s work in Trondheim, will be implemented in all 22 conflict councils in Norway during 2009. In the Ministry of Justice and Police, work is under way to follow-up NOU 25: 2008 Children and Penalties. The public law commission, which wrote the Children’s and Penalties Investigation, cooperated, inter alia, on the following issues: with the Trondheims project, and the project has contributed a number of proposals in the investigation. Young people’s summits are another example of measures proposed as an alternative punishment for children and young people. This, together with the follow-up teams and other proposals, will now be considered in greater detail in the department. In our follow-up work in the future, we will therefore look at what measures we will continue or take to ensure the best possible prevention of child and youth crime, the best possible follow-up of the children who have already committed crime, and the least possible return to new crime. Pilot projects will be launched to test the proposal for a Youth Majority Meeting with the Youth Plan as proposed in the NOU to which I referred. Finally, it is gratifying to see that new ways have been developed to respond to children and young people who have such good results, with so little relapse. It is also gratifying that we seem to be able to gather broad political support to develop it. So my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e959	Now we're in the lucky situation that we actually have projects that are evaluated and that we know work. Too many of the problems in the justice sector have been that there is a lot of action going on without us knowing exactly what effect they have. I have been so lucky to be able to visit the conflict council in the South-Trendelag on several occasions, and have seen the solid, professional basis on which the work is based up there. It is also true that this project in Trondheim has been purchased by three neighbouring municipalities, because they have seen such good results. My question to the Council of State is: it's always a problem to start such projects. It's fine during the project period. But does he see any possibility that we can move from more part of the project to day-to-day practice, and with funding that ensures the future of as good action as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e968	It is an important issue that is pointed out. We live in a ‘project tyranny’, and this is not only true in the justice sector. When the project time is over, you're there, and it's very unpredictable. I fully agree with the questioner: when we have such a good evaluation, which we rarely have in terms of responses in the criminal justice area, of which we must have more, and at the same time there is political uprising around it, there is no reason not to implement it as a more solid model. I am pleased that both the Right and the rest of the opposition support the Government's proposal in the budget to develop the Grand Meeting model this year in all the Councils of Conflict. That's a very good first step on the way. Then future budgets will determine how many such follow-up teams we're going to have. But when it comes to this, we want to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e975	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What is now important is to be able to take care of the enthusiastic staff involved in this project. I am also aware that the project period has been extended in 2009. But my challenge to the Council of State is to give some signals at the earliest possible time to avoid checking out the people who work in the project today – that is to say resigning, because they are as uncertain as to whether they have a job to go to after New Year’s. So I want you to give as early as possible some signals that this is life made after New Year – stay where you are, because we need their competence further in the project!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e980	These are the signals I'm going to take with me. It is natural that this should also be discussed in the context of the budget now until the harvest. That's not the big cost we're talking about, but this is important to us. At the same time, I would also like to say that much of the crime that is being dealt with in the major meetings and in these follow-up teams is quite serious, among other things. violence between young people. I saw a case that had been posted on YouTube, which was about gross violence, but how insulted and overtook – it was a young girl – actually settles down very much that this is the solution and the track when you have to respond, where you dampen conflicts and help you not to have a relapse. In sum, this is a model that maybe also adults could have a lot to learn from in all parts of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e987	We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e993	From the representative Tord Lien to the Minister for the Environment and Development: «The stock for you is 39 young people according to the predatory game agreement. Last year it bred 51 yerv, an overperformance of 30 pst. According to the agreement, in the predatory game region 1, there should be no youirs. In Luster, the population of yours is nevertheless high and poses great challenges for both the outdoor industries and the wild rain in the West Jotunheim. Luster is in many ways the gateway to the West, and the establishment of a Yew tribe that can open the whole West to you. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Yews don't get foothold in Luster?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1001	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 5 will be answered in response to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1009	I would like to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In Trønder-Avisa 2 May d.o.a. it appears that Bunadsaum, a small company in the Nord-Trøndelag, has been waiting for more than eight months for reimbursement of sick pay from Nav. Nav Nord-Trøndelag states in the same article: «So we have chosen to deprioritize payments to employers, which unfortunately takes longer than is desirable before the companies receive their reimbursements.» Is the Council satisfied that Nav is deliberately depriving small businesses of reimbursement of sick pay?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1018	Of course, I am not satisfied when deadlines are not met in the Employment and Welfare Act, whether in response to applications for personal benefits or reimbursement of sickness benefits. The remaining developments in the department were generally worrying at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. This trend has now been reversed, among others. as a result of the strengthening of the employment and welfare seat. Reference here to St.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, Statement on the situation in the management of labour and welfare and proposals on the allocation of resources to the Labour and Welfare Act, which is now being discussed in the Storting. Due to a sharp increase in unemployment from December 2008 to January 2009, I am informed that Nav Nord-Trøndelag has prioritised the treatment of applications for unemployment benefits. Nav Nord-Trøndelag has prioritised applications for benefits for individuals who would otherwise have been without income insurance, rather than employer reimbursement. It was made as a temporary solution to ensure income for those who became unemployed or who were left unsecured for other reasons. Normally, employers are paid sickness benefits within eight weeks. Nav Nord-Trøndelag has not received feedback from companies that the temporary change in priority has caused major problems. The example of Bunadsaum AS is, after I have been informed, the only Nav Nord-Trøndelag has been informed about. As part of the Nav reform, treatment of sick pay demands has been brought together into state units. I am informed that, among other things, the Employment and Welfare Act. have had challenges in establishing effective working processes in these units. To meet the challenges, the Labour and Welfare Unit will have a special focus on assisting managers of the administrative units in the development of production management, robust work processes and good management environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1029	I thank you for your answer. Let me go back a little bit in this matter. If this is the only thing, it should be easy to get it out of the world. Already in August 2008, the health allowance was to be refunded. On 13 January 2009, the Nav Management Nord-Trøndelag decided that the application had been accepted and that this should be returned. Only in May – almost four months after the decision was taken – did the first money come into the account. This means that the money has been refunded from August to December, but the money has not yet been refunded from January. Is the Council satisfied with the long payment period between the decision being taken, until the money is in the account, which has been about four months?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1038	No, I'm not satisfied with that, and that's why we're doing something about it. Many of the instruments to do something about this are now being dealt with in Stortingen, partly in the form of actions undertaken by Nav to improve the efficiency of its production, and in addition to Nav 710 million. Extra kroner. Because there is a question of extra resources both on the basis that we have and are going to have an increase in unemployment and the need that is then to give an offer to those who are unemployed, and also to build up other balances in Nav, as I have thoroughly explained in the case that is now being dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1043	I thank you for your answer. I understand the Council of State there – at least I will understand him there – that he believes it is important to give priority to small businesses as well, and that they also receive reimbursement within the time limits set, which I think are important, especially given that they have a responsibility to follow up, among other things. The IA agreement by getting people with reduced working capacity back and included in the working life. That's why it's also a little problematic if this isn't prioritised high enough, given that there are a lot of people who might hesitate to take in this type of workforce, which also means that you don't get enough of them in the workplace. I hope at least that I have understood the Council of States correctly in this, that he wants to follow up in such a way that we avoid such types of cases in the future, and that the necessary organisational steps are taken to succeed with the Nav reform. This isn't just talking about money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1052	Yes, the representative understood me quite correctly when he realized that I was doing something about it. There are many challenges in Nav. There are other benefits, for which there is too much waiting time. Just a little bit of clarification: it's probably not that Nav Nord-Trøndelag has said that they're going to downgrade small businesses, I just want to make a reservation about it. So they've given priority to paying a day's money for a very hectic period. But now leave it. The representative and I agree that it must be a goal for Nav to bring down the waiting times in all of his cases. And I don't think I – and the representative, maybe – can guarantee that there won't be single cases in a system of 14,000 state and 3,000–4,000 municipal employees who may have been lying for too long for different reasons, perhaps sometimes the complexity of the case. What is my clear ambition with the proposition I have made to the Storting is that we should evolve towards our common ambition that the waiting lists should be reduced and the procedure improved with the additional resources allocated, and the review that is otherwise done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1064	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Manual therapists have for more than three years been primary contacts in healthcare for the purpose of diagnosing, referring to specialist healthcare, health care providers, etc. However, manual therapists do not have their own authorization. This creates frustrating and costly ambiguities, in some cases an acute threat to patients’ health, including: in hospitals that reject emergency patients because they are referred from ‘physiotherapist’. Will the Council of State now take action and follow up Storting's leadership on the authorisation of manual therapists?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1073	As the representative refers to, the Stortinget has previously raised the question of whether manual therapists should be granted a specific authorisation under the Health Care Professional Act. Manual therapists are primary healthcare contacts, which means that they can investigate and treat patients independently of referral from a doctor and that they can refer patients to a medical specialist or other studies. Manual therapists have also been granted access to medical treatment for patients with musculoskeletal disorders or musculoskeletal injuries. In particular, due to the involvement of the Storting in the case, the Health Directorate, after ordering from the Ministry, has carried out a wide-ranging investigation of the health professionals’ authorisation scheme. The Directorate’s investigations of January and September 2008 show that the Directorate does not see the need for substantial changes to the law’s authorisation system. With regard to the relationship between public specialist approval versus double authorisation, the Directorate has recommended that the law be maintained. It is clear from the pre-worker of the Health Care Professional Act that if a health professional has a basic authorisation training at the bottom, it would be less relevant to characterise an additional or continuing training as an authorisation. The starting point then is that the system of specialist authorisation should be preferred to a dual authorisation, unless the practitioner, through his additional or continuing training, has qualified for a profession which differs substantially from that normally resulting from basic training. Manual therapists already have authorisation as physiotherapists today. A self-authorisation as a manual therapist will therefore involve a double authorisation. In the revised national budget, I will come back to this matter in a short time. However, as a result of the representative’s questions, I would already like to express my full support for the assessments and recommendations made by the Directorate in these investigations. In my opinion, the additional or continuing training of manual therapists does not imply that they have qualified for a profession different from that of basic physiotherapist. The fact that in some contexts manual therapists are primary contacts is not, in my opinion, an independent argument that they should be given specific authorisation. Because manual therapists already have authorisation as physiotherapists, the Health Care Professionals Act and the Patient Rights Act will apply in any case. Therefore, patient safety and patient rights will be equally well respected even if the manual therapists are not granted a double authorisation. As Stortinget is also familiar with, I made a proposal last Friday, proposing changes to the Health Care Professional Act's specialist approval system regarding the authority to approve specialists. The proposal signals a broad review of the organisation of specialist training provided that the Stortinge adopts the amendment of the law. Furthermore, a review has been signaled of whether or not public specialisation should be introduced for health professionals groups other than the three groups of personnel in which specialist approval, i.e. doctors, dentists and opticians, can be granted today. In my opinion, it should be based on the basic authorisation system of the Health Care Professional Act and public specialist authorisation, rather than opening up a practice of granting new authorisation to already authorised groups. Several human resources organisations have previously applied for authorisation under the Health Personnel Act, including Norwegian Manual Therapy Association. For the sake of order, I would also like to mention that the department has already this year given these organisations the opportunity to update previous applications if they still want to be assessed for authorisation. Any applications will then be dealt with by the Directorate of Health before the department finally concludes. To sum up, I believe that it is going the wrong way to follow the double authorisation trail. But I'm very concerned that we're going to see that, for example. manual therapists are physiotherapists with an approved supplementary training, specialist training, in the same way – and then I use an example that I hope is close to the questioner – which I think is very important that we also get a similar system for nurses. In other words, we have nurses with specialist anaesthetics, that we have physiotherapist with specialist manual therapy – that is, we use this system as we know it from doctors, dentists and opticians, also from other health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1090	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough and comprehensive response, from the point of view and the work done in the Department and with the investigation by the Directorate of Health. I am nevertheless somewhat disappointed with the answer. I had hoped that the Minister of Health would follow the strong leadership of the Storting. There has been no disagreement about this in Stortinget. It has been a majority decision. A total accumulation has requested such an authorisation. Some of the background to my question is also the uncertainty and uncertainty that exist both in the healthcare system and among patients about what manual therapists can really do. It's a big misconception that you think of them as normal physiotherapists with some further education. They do a completely different work compared to physiotherapists, among others. professional. I know a good part of it, based on having had a lot of use in my own family. I think there's a difference between the work they do independently.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1099	First, the claim that there should be so much clearer if you have a double authorisation: I imagine two alternatives. With a double authorization, you can go to an authorised manual therapist. In my alternative, you can go to a physiotherapist with approved specialist training in manual therapy. That one option represents such a great simplification compared to the other, I have to admit that I can't see. It is clear that anesthesiologist and a specialist nurse in the field of mental health protection also perform different tasks. But it's basic training, nurse, that gives authorization, and then we have to have a public recognition system that describes what kind of specialist training you have taken at the top of the whole thing. I think a development with double authorizations would be far more confusing than the system I'm now designing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1104	The group of dual authorisation today that is closest to comparison may be the midwives, who are nurses at the bottom. But it is clear that a normal nurse cannot work in a maternity ward and have powers or opportunities to join in and redeem a woman to give birth. Similarly, a normal physiotherapist would not be able to do this, for example: Manipulate, operate with cracking of the neck, etc. And you don't want to have the important opportunity to both diagnose and refer directly to specialist health services without having to go through a doctor. There's a difference in substance between those with official authorization as a specialist – except doctors, because they're doctors at the bottom. I want to ask the State Council – if I can be allowed – to go perhaps even closer to the work done by the manual therapists, and make sure that you do not continue to do something that is misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1111	I am aware that midwives have a dual authorisation, including: linked to an EEA legislation. But the fact that you have historically made the mistake of having double-authorised is a bad argument for continuing to do it. The point of view I have with regard to the right approach to this is a point of view that is shared by the Norwegian Physiotherapist Federation. And one would think they at least know something about it, they organize, among other things. a good deal of manual therapists. So the reasoning I now have is not professionally taken out of the air. I want to contribute to a greater understanding of what lies behind the individual professional exercises in the health care system. But I want it not only to apply to manual therapists. It must be a good, complete system. And I think there will be colleagues in the profession of the representative Davøy who will very much agree with me on such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1120	What would the council do without the Christian People's Party? There had been no secession in the questioning session of him today at least. My question is as follows: ‘At the same time as several thousand addicts are in line for treatment, the Salvation Army must shut down the institution’s Door, as a result of health south-east not buying sufficient places. After this, the Salvation Army no longer has any agreements with Health South-East related to the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts. How is it possible that this can happen when so many are in line for treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1131	I'm always happy that the Christian People's Party is here. And then I can enjoy answering this question, which is a very important question. I would like to start by saying that, as the representative of Syversen, I am also concerned that drug addicts will get the best possible offer without having to wait unnecessarily long for treatment. It is the responsibility of regional health establishments to provide specialist health services to the inhabitants of their region. It follows from the law on specialist health services that these services must comply with the requirements of soundness. The responsibility requirement also applies in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. Whether the services are to be provided through their own service providers or whether they are to be purchased from private operators is up to regional health companies to assess. Through purchasing agreements, about two thirds of the total daily capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts is provided by private actors. This also applies to the health region south-east. I have been briefed by Health South-East RHF that the company has recently completed an acquisition process in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts. I have also been informed that this process has been carried out under ‘Public Acquisitions Regulation — Part I, General Provisions’. Such a process does not require prior publication, but Health South-East chose to disclose the acquisition on the health region’s website. In addition, the health region analysed the market for potential providers, in particular in the light of the experience gained in the 2008 drug acquisition process. The health region then contacted relevant private providers, who are also non-profit organisations — and followed it closely. I am also aware that the institution of the Salvation Army, the Door of Hope, participated in the competition, but that the institution was not offered an agreement. The acquisition process had an economic framework of 60 million. kr. There were 14 private providers who qualified. The tenderers offered approximately 95 million contracts. NOK 35 million. kr more than Health south-east RHF had set the framework for acquisition. It was therefore not possible to conclude agreements with everyone who was qualified. The door of hope required an agreement to cover the entire capacity of the institution, i.e. approx. 20 places. This made the negotiations more difficult, in the sense that an intermediate solution with the Door of Hope became obsolete – it was either 20 places or nothing. Then the representative Syversen points to something important. The 2008 Norwegian patient registry annual report showed that the average waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised treatment, the whole country as a whole, was 73 days by the end of the year. This was three days longer than at the end of 2007. For the south-east health region, the corresponding waiting times at the end of 2008 were 65 days, i.e. less than the national average, but still 65 days. And it was actually nine days longer than at the end of 2007. At the same time, the Norwegian patient registry report showed that 23 pst. patients in multidisciplinary specialised treatment were not allowed to start their treatment within the prescribed period. Of course, I am not satisfied with this. I have therefore implemented several measures to strengthen capacity and quality in multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts. Health South-East RHF has received nearly 70 million. as its share of the year’s allocation in the escalating plan for the drug field to enhance capacity and quality in multidisciplinary specialised treatment. These funds add up to 60 million. kr which was the framework for the abovementioned acquisition. Furthermore, the year’s appropriations for regional health enterprises include a general increase in activity of 1,5 pst. This increase represents about 20 million. kr. So you've got $70 million. kr above the escalating plan for the rhp field allocated to the RHFs. Health South-East has redistributed 60 million within its own framework. NOK for the purchase of several places. In addition, there's a general growth of 20 million. kr. I agree with the representative Syversen that the capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts is not yet sufficient. This is precisely the background for strengthening capacity in the health region south-east. In 2009, health south-east will increase the financial framework for drug treatment by a total of 150 million. kr. The capacity for drug treatment in this health region has increased from 964 places in 2004 to 1,032 places in 2008, thus further increasing by about a quarter. 60 places through the purchase we are now discussing. This will significantly increase capacity during 2009. The last point I want to get into is that Health South-East RHF has in addition received 50 million. kr of the Government’s package of measures for the establishment of a separate Rusakut in Oslo. I would also like to mention that, in connection with the work on a Rusakutt and an improvement in the offers in Oslo, we have granted 60 million. kr to the Church of the City of Oslo Foundation, over two years, to take action against the most insistent drug addicts in Oslo. This action will be implemented by the Church's Bymition in close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, Health South-East and Oslo Police Districts. Finally, through the 2009 Regional Health Companies mission document, I have requested that the waiting time for multidisciplinary specialised treatment and deadlines be reduced. I will therefore closely monitor developments in waiting times and deadlines within multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1160	I thank you for your answer. The answer describes the technique you are now using to buy places, and I deeply disagree with them. I believe that in the long term it has very unfortunate consequences for those who work in the field of care, and those who will have room for treatment. We can use, for example, the Door of Hope, an institution that has existed for over 40 years: it is an institution where there is work training inside the picture, and in many cases it accepts addicts who are given up anywhere else. As a result of the tendering policy pursued, the institution is above and outside with a pen stroke. My question is: is the Council satisfied with the way in which you now buy places – which you are not forced to do, but which you choose to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1171	At least I'm very concerned that we won't have a hundred percent capacity in public. There are many good providers, good services, private actors, like private ideal actors, from which the public has to buy services. And when public services are going to buy, I find it very difficult to imagine, at least with the law we have today, that it should be possible without a transparent purchase process. When we're going to spend 60 million. NOK in order to increase the capacity of multidisciplinary specialised treatment, we want an offer. They must be qualitatively good, and they must also have a price we can live with. And when you evaluate those offers on the basis of quality and price – with the greatest emphasis on quality – and you get more offers than you can get, there must be a selection process on which those who may be dissatisfied can complain. That's the system we're buying from. I don't think it's significantly different from the system after which the previous government bought that kind of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1178	Grandma wasn't going to bid, she was the red-green promise, but drug addicts and child-rescue kids aren't too dangerous. This shows that there is no connection in the government's argument, because in some areas you choose one, and in other areas you choose the other. We have had a long debate here in Stortingen that the EEA Agreement will open, for example. for negotiations, which provide much more predictability for those who will work in this field, and not least for those who are addicted to drugs themselves. What's sad -- I just have to say it, because I don't think it's going on -- is that the government chooses to sit still and look at this development, which means that a large number of institutions that have been solid partners for the public are now getting the hook on the door. I think it is a pity for those who are involved – not for the institutions themselves, but for those who need help – that this has become development, and that it is now escalating under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1185	I understand to the Syvers that the problem is not that we get 60 new places, but that there are wrong places. That's the main challenge for the Christian People's Party. Well, the most important thing for me is that we get 60 new, good places. In addition, as I said in my main post, and as I repeated afterwards, this was not a tendering procedure. This was a call, where there were also negotiations with the various actors. These negotiations, for example, resulted in: Until the Door of Hope, it was zero or 20 places. It is the kind of negotiations and discussions that are conducted and that are not tenders and the lowest price. The Christian People's Party has so much experience from Oslo in supporting such a policy, but this was not. The most important thing for me is that more drug addicts are now being treated by putting in place 60 new places. That's a good place. More have to be, because the challenges are still many.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1194	Question 9 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1200	I have allowed myself to promote the following questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘When the Energy Act was adopted in 1991, Statkraft SF was given responsibility for the State’s power generation, while Statnett SF assumed responsibility for the State’s part of the central network, etc. Now we see that Statkraft has become a network through the purchase of small and medium-sized online companies. The Competition Authority fears that Statkraft may use the revenues generated by this network activity for the illicit subsidisation of power generation. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the role of network owners and power producers is clearly separated, as foreseen by the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1209	Let me first remind you that issues related to general framework conditions and regulations for the energy sector fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy, and that Statkraft as a company is dealing with them as other companies in the energy market. As can be seen from the questions raised by Mr Ivar Kristiansen, the creation of the companies Statnett SF and Statkraft SF focused on distinguishing the roles of distributor of power in the central network and power generation. Such a distinction is important, inter alia: because investments in and operation of the central network may affect prices that power producers can achieve in different geographical areas. Such a distinction has also become normative in the EU. The strategic framework for Statkraft’s activities is given in the ownership announcement, which the Stortinget dealt with in the spring of 2007. It shows that State power is to be operated on a commercial basis and that the main task of the company is to be an efficient producer of power in Norway, as the representative is well aware. However, during the last decade, state power has become a significant owner of regional power companies. Several power producers in Norway are now known as part of enterprises that also own network activities. It also does so, where these ownership is managed by regional companies such as Trondheim Energia and Skagerak Energia, which own and operate regional and local distribution networks. The government has not, through the business meeting, given any signals as to how Statkraft should behave in concrete commercial circumstances, nor as to the role of regional companies in the development of network activities. It is clear from today’s regulation that cross-subsidisation between production and network activities, to which the representative of Kristiansen points in his question, is not permitted. Vertically integrated companies which may have incentives to invest costs from other activities into the transmission system companies, so that network customers are charged for these costs, are thus not involved. The costs that network activities may be covered by network leases are strictly regulated by Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate. This shall ensure that transmission system operators act neutrally towards their customers and that monopoly activities do not subsidise other activities. In addition, there is a requirement for independence in the management of the transmission system companies. In line with the Electricity Market Directive II, the Stortinget, as is known in the spring of 2006, adopted a corporate and functional distinction between network activities and competitive activities in vertically integrated companies entrusted with systemic responsibility, or with more than 100000 customers. Skagerak Energi and Trondheim Energi both fall into this category. The responsibility for checking compliance with these requirements lies with the NVE.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1224	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State itself, in its answer here today, underlines the need to have such a distinction that I address in my question, and she also points to what is the legislative process in the EU. I think it might also be appropriate for the Council of State, with the tasks we are facing, to take into account the concerns of the Competition Authority, because there are a number of regional energy plants around the country that are now afraid of Statkraft's money supply, which have been filled in many ways by state-filled equity. Therefore, I would like to follow up with a question: is it not time for the Council of State, through the Enterprise Meeting, to implement a policy where this distinction becomes crystal clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1233	I believe that the legislation is quite clear and as the Storting has adopted it. It is being followed up, and the responsibility for monitoring it must also be borne in mind. With regard to the role of State power in general and not least in relation to regional power companies, we are concerned that they should also play an important role there, because it is also important in the commercial context. But going into politics through business meetings and instructing in business matters, I think it's going wrong. We must govern in the way that I believe Stortinget has also given its consent to through the ownership notice and other laws, regulations and documents, but we are seaworthy to take care of the laws and regulations that apply to what the representative here deals with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1240	It's going to be wrong,' says the Council of State. I think it's important to have a continuous monitoring of what's going on. There will now be a concern around in large parts of the country, among others. in Trøndelag, where Statekraft is given the opportunity to purchase. The possibility of regional centres of excellence is weakened, the decision-making process is shifted – in this case from Trøndelag to Oslo. It is a centralisation of power and authority over a low shoe that weakens the needs, potential and ability of regional units to develop both the network and new renewable energy. In fact, the Government has ignored the Competition Authority’s clear advice and instructions on this matter. I just want confirmation that the Council of State has a full focus on this competitively important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1245	We're doing what we can to follow up the decisions that have been made, not least here in the Storting, in a proper way. In the case of Trøndelag in particular, it is said that, as the representative knows, the responsibility for the regional distribution networks – and not the central transmission system in Norway – remains with Statnett. It's not my responsibility – just to say it. But I'm familiar with the fact that there's been an extensive dialogue between State Power and the local actors, and as far as I know, it's a constructive process linked to it, but seawardly within the framework of the issue that the representative Kristiansen raises here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1254	We're now dealing with question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1260	‘In winter, the serious animal disease bluetongue has been detected for the first time in Norway. The virus has been detected in four bovine herds in Agder without disease. The disease is not dangerous to humans, but it causes great pain to the animals. The farmers are very concerned about the risk of further spread, and expect the authorities, with the Food Authority at the head, to do what they can to control the disease. Good dialogue with the farmers, sampling programmes, the economy and the need for vaccination is assessed. How does the Council of State follow up this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1267	Initially, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the Food Safety Authority that is the animal health authority that manages the control of the animal disease bluetongue. The veterinary institute shall provide technical advice and assessments in this situation. We also cooperate closely with the other Nordic countries in this work. A common EEA legislation on the management of bluetongue has been developed, but countries organise this work somewhat differently within these frameworks. This applies, for example: the question of vaccination. Here I stress that special Norwegian conditions such as climate and structure are included in the assessments. The situation is taken seriously, and there has been a very great effort to monitor the spread of the disease. More than 30000 samples of cattle and small ruminants have been analysed in winter. This work has been necessary to take the right steps at all times. Monitoring is now followed up by regular monitoring with monthly sampling. If surveillance reveals new infected herds, new risk assessments will be carried out which will form the basis for the control of bluetongue. The Ministry shall be regularly briefed, both in writing and orally, on the status of the monitoring. Food surveillance also ensures that the legislation and contingency plans are in place. I have called the Swedish Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute for a new orientation meeting at the summer. At the Nordic Council of Ministers in July, I will also discuss this and other animal health issues with my Nordic colleagues. I focus on good dialogue with all stakeholders and international cooperation adapted to a Norwegian reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1276	Thank you so much for your answer. Let me follow up on a theme that many of the farmers in this district are very concerned about, namely the economic consequences. Producers directly affected by the disease bluetongue will be compensated. But there are many other manufacturers who want to label the effect of bluetongue because they are inside this containment zone that is established. Would it be possible for the producers indirectly affected by the restrictions due to bluetongue to be compensated for the losses and disadvantages caused by the disease in Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1281	Bluetongue is a special disease. It must be handled differently from other animal diseases with which we are accustomed. It is true that large zones are established and restrictions affect many animal owners. I have stressed more dialogue with those affected by this disease, so I have also had regular meetings with industry representatives. The Food Authority has also had it. In terms of compensation, we follow the legislation we have. When the disease leads to the need to extract infected animals, it is replaced by legislation. In addition to this, there is a discussion that needs to be conducted with industry organisations, and one has to come back to if this disease is to come to such a conclusion that this discussion becomes necessary. Fortunately, we haven't come that far yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1288	I thank you again for the answer. The findings of bluetongue in Agder in winter came at a favourable time in order to be able to carry out a thorough study and analysis of the situation – i.e. in winter. Despite this, there was a lot that was unclear about the information responsibility and methods of identifying the extent of the disease. Does the Food Safety Authority currently have sufficient resources to deal with a comparable situation if it occurs in summer — which is a less favourable time — in an area with a higher stocking density than in Agder? A prerequisite then is that no other preventive work carried out by the Food Safety Authority is to be carried out in order to ensure good food quality and animal health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1297	The disease bluetongue is a climate-related disease that we have seen for the first time in Norway. But we have been prepared for the disease for a long time, because one has seen outbreaks in Denmark and in South Sweden. That's why we've also had a very comprehensive sampling system, so that we'll be sure that we'll detect any infection early. We have been lucky because we have a cold climate, and thus have had time to prepare well. I feel that the Food Authority is well prepared. I feel that a thorough job is being done together with industry organisations against the livestock owners who have been hit, to ensure that both information and control measures are well known and followed up. We also have increased the scope of control now, because we know that the fail-pass is active, and then the infection can be carried to other herds. We are fully aware of that and follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-13.ana.ud893e1304	The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
