ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e24	The representative of Trond Helleland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the meeting of the alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinge under the permission of the representative Børge Brende, from 12 March to 18 March, in relation to parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the South Trøndelag County, Michael Momyr, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e47	Applications for leave of representatives Per Roar Bredvold and Thore A. Nistad on 12 and 13 March to take part in the Interparliamentary Union meeting in Haugesund are submitted by the Progress Group. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Lars Joakim HanssenFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenLars Joakim Hanssen and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Per Roald Bredvold and Thore A. Nistad respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e76	Lars Joakim Hanssen and Morten Ørsal Johansen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e81	It is a pleasure on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to make 17 concrete proposals to improve the content and change the organisation of professional training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e86	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e89	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning and myself, I would like to make proposals for faster health care and greater freedom of choice in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e94	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e97	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative from the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Gunnar Kvassheim, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself on a national system of electronic 'cow-free' tickets on public travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e103	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e117	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e126	This case concerns a statement of capital increase in SAS by the owners, inter alia. the Norwegian State. I want to start by saying that the SAS/Widerøe system represents a very important infrastructure in Norway. Without all the planes that cross and cross, not least on the short-haul network, represented primarily by On Island, the country would look completely different. It is of great national importance that this important system continues to operate. Furthermore, most of them are well known that the SAS group has been through a very difficult period. International aviation has been through a very difficult period. There are many companies that are struggling with large deficits. The industry has been through and is in a period of major restructuring both regionally and internationally. In this situation, SAS has needed a significant strengthening of equity in order to provide the basis for profitable and forward-looking operations. It is important for me to stress that this is a work that the Norwegian Government has done together with the other major owners, which are the other two Scandinavian countries, Sweden and Denmark, and together with Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation. So there's an overall attitude of all four big owners that evaluates this case the same way. I would also like to stress that this is not only a cooperation between the major owners, but also between the owners, the trade unions and the employees. I want to pay tribute to the employees that they have realized the seriousness of the situation and, as I can assess it, far-reaching – necessary – in terms of their own pay and working conditions in order for SAS to be competitive in the future. A strategy called ‘Core SAS’ has been put forward, dealing with a commitment to the core areas, which suggests that this should be a profitable and good company some years in advance. It is also important that the Government – and in so far as we too – emphasise that this is an investment that should provide return in the normal way in the future. So we take, in short, our part -- that's in the proposition prescribed to 720 million. NOK 6 billion in total capital. I want to say that SAS has been unhappy with its strategy in the near past. Last year they had a loss write-off of SEK 4.9 billion on their own with the subsidiary Spanair. That's why it's a good idea, I think, that you're now peeling off the outer units and betting on what SAS is good at, and what SAS is made for. The opposition raised the issue of SAS sales now. This is not a relevant issue per person. date. On the other hand, it is important for us to make sure that the company is well equipped both to invest and to exist in the future. At the same time, I think it'll be presumptuous of us now to say that this structure is going to last just as it is, in the future. In the future, there may be other challenges and other issues that make it necessary to reconsider that very relationship. I also want to say to the part of the opposition that proposes an immediate sale, that I believe it is on the verge of being irresponsible. It is important for Norway and the other Scandinavian countries to ensure that this infrastructure remains. And in today’s market situation, when it’s very uncertain what it’s going to look like in the future and there’s huge restructuring in international aviation, it would have been a very bad way to deal with Norwegian jobs and Norwegian infrastructure – and to the extent that Norwegian values built up over time – to put this out for sale. This would also be contrary to the assessments made by the other owners in connection with this proposition. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e154	When the Stortinget today adopts Norwegian State participation in the expansion of SAS, it is based on the desire to re-establish SAS’ position in Norwegian and Scandinavian aviation. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, emphasises that SAS, with its comprehensive grid and jobs in all parts of the country, will continue to be an important part of our transport infrastructure. But the majority won't stop there. We also want the company to be further developed and its tasks in Norwegian – and Scandinavian – aviation to be expanded, of course in the context of international issues. Historically, SAS has always had its base in a strong domestic market, i.e. Sweden, Denmark and Norway. The company lived high on public regulations for many years until the liberalisation of international aviation hit the company in the 1980s and 1990s. That was when the downturn really began. SAS was simply not equipped to face a new and much tougher international competition. In retrospect, we might also say that the ambitions far exceeded the realistic prospects that the company had for finding a place in European aviation. However, there is also a question of whether the deregulation has gone too far, and whether we are eager to release new players into Scandinavian aviation have been harmed to deprive SAS of competitive advantages that would have better enabled the company to compete internationally. Perhaps it is that, after every special Norwegian ban on awarding credits on domestic air travel, there is a significant disadvantage in the competition with other and larger international companies, and that the continuation of the bonus ban is, in fact, a favoring of cheap airlines that can choose to fly on the most commercially attractive routes without other considerations. I also note that the Swedish have lifted their bonus ban and that ESA is now investigating whether the bonus ban violates European competition rules. Normally, state ownership is a strength for any company. And in the precarious situation SAS is currently in, there can hardly be any doubt that the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish state partnership is the rescue plan needed by the company to recover through an international financial crisis and come back upstairs. Norwegian authorities have a share of 14.3 p.m. in SAS. It costs us somewhere between 720 and 800 million. kr to maintain our holding in the company after the extension of the shares. The Danish State has a holding similar to that of the Norwegian State. The Swedish state owns 21.4 pst. The other 50 pst. of the shares are spread over a wide range of private and institutional investors. Of course, the stock expansion is also dependent on the private owners saying yes. So far, the Norwegian ownership of SAS has had a commercial starting point. With all due respect for the exercise of ownership, we can later see that our commercial commitment has not been particularly successful. And I'm going to assume that the restoration of SAS in the continuation requires a more active ownership than the case has been in the past few years. In the short term at least, I believe it should mean that the Norwegian, Swedish and Danish authorities are now choosing a strategic and sectoral policy stance in the management of ownership. After a period of strategic misstatements and significant misinvestments that have dropped SAS for billions of dollars, the company now returns to its core tasks. SAS shall focus on the domestic market and, in particular, the business travel, i.e. ‘The businesssmen’s airline’. A little nostalgic – it smells like both a smile course and Janne Carlzon of what is now happening in SAS. And it's not safe at all that it's so stupid. We were proud of our joint Scandinavian airline at that time, even though we said in ghostly terms, with a grudge against the Swedish dominance, that SAS was actually «Swedish All together». We get a smaller SAS, and all parts of the business are assembled in Sweden for the good purpose of streamlining and streamlining the organisation. Nevertheless, we are going to take care of such a reorganisation because the world can probably look something different from Stockholm than from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e171	I fully agree with the rapporteur that SAS/Widerøe is an important part of the infrastructure in Norway. Now it is that the infrastructure can also be provided by other companies if needed. It has been seen that Norwegian has been a good contribution in this way, so it's not that SAS have to fly where SAS/Widerøe is flying today. SAS has been through a long period of turbulence, so to speak. The company has been affected by work conflicts. It has been marked by an increasing deficit. Over the years, SAS management has produced a number of cost-saving programmes and efficiency measures, without being close to addressing the financial challenges facing the company. In other words, what you have done has not been good enough, and management has not controlled the situation. Now it's not a criticism of today's management, because there's a lot of people who have been involved in managing the company. Various major errors have been made, including: the purchase of Spanair, where more than 10 billion kroner were spent. They just sold 80 pst. by the company for EUR 1. It's not a good store. If someone is surprised that the company is struggling, you can take a look at that transaction. SAS also has a history of competitors. At the time, Braathens was devoured and had monopoly in Norway on aircraft. The flight prices have never been as high as they were. In addition, illegal market sharing has been convicted, and industrial espionage has been convicted against its competitor Norwegian. So it's not quite a good past the company has. So it is that the state is a partner in the company, and when the state is a partner or owner of a company, one should be aware of what is involved in distortions of competition. What you now experience is that SAS comes to the state, asks for money and gets it, while competitors, for example Norwegian, have to go into the market to raise their capital. It is very demanding, especially in the current situation, with the global financial crisis and the lack of capital. It is also true that when you get these funds from the state, which is the taxpayers' money, there is no guarantee that the company will survive. It confirmed Mats Jansson in Today's Business Wednesday 4 February. At the same time, he says that if they had not got this issue in place, the company would not have gone bankrupt. So he can't guarantee the outcome of anything you do. What surprises me is, what happens next time SAS needs capital? The government parties and the Right say you go in with this capital to defend the values you have. So now you're going to go in with capital that's much higher than the state values of the company. When you use such a argument, and if SAS would come in such a situation that they go back to the Government to ask for more money, the answer is really given. Once you've used the argument that you're going into state capital to defend the values, you also have to do it the next time. I have to say that worries me. Then I am also amazed at the Right’s argument in this case. When we discussed the March 2007 ownership announcement, the Right would not agree with the proposal that we put forward to empower the Government to sell SAS. Now you have gone into that proposal, but you also have to give the company capital. At the same time, the representative Torbjørn Hansen in VG says that this is a completely wrong time to sell. He says that selling now will be wasting taxpayers' money. This means the Right in March. Now, when we present the vote and debate this matter, right will sell. I think it is an unbidden way in which the Right has acted in this matter, but I assume that the Right can explain its many views regarding the sale of SAS in its post. Then we'll hear if there's a new policy today, or if you're standing on what's in the position. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposal from the Progress Party – and possibly the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e192	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e195	Right-wing support, however, under some doubts, the Government's proposal to participate in the issue in SAS. It is clear that an issue is necessary to prevent SAS from encountering financial problems and to give strength to the implementation of the new strategy, referred to as ‘Core SAS’. This means that the alternatives you face are probably a bankruptcy situation or a situation where the state's share values are completely lost. Should the State say no, and thus either get heavily watered out as the owner, or contribute to the company's inability to operate, the values of the state and taxpayers will be lost in their entirety. Therefore, the right does not consider the immediate sale of the holding in SAS to be a current option, and we believe that the proposal made by the Progress Party both in the hall and in the context of the debate on the issue, namely to sell the shares on the stock exchange, is totally unrealistic, and therefore not a current possibility in the situation in which the company stands. We think it's better to deal with reality than to participate in a debate on totally wrong premises. We note that the Government in a letter dated 25 February 2009 to the Committee refers to an exchange announcement from SAS last autumn that the company considered different structural solutions. Since the Nordic countries own 50 pst. by the company and acting in a coordinated manner as owners, there is little doubt that the Norwegian government has also opened up the sale of SAS, but this did not lead to last autumn. Right is positive to exactly this part of the government's ownership exercise. It is right to signal the willingness to assess a sale — or ‘privatisation’ — to use a concept in which red-green lots are happy. Fortunately, this contrasts with the signals from the previous Minister of Industry that it was more relevant for Norway to buy up in SAS than to sell itself down. As so many times before, rhetoric is acquired by reality, and the reality here is that a sale would be preferable to an emergency issue, which we now have to participate in. The right-hand reason for supporting participation in the issue is that we want to defend the state's share values in SAS. It is an absolute minimum requirement for success in today's situation that the value of the country's holding in the company in the long term is worth more than the current issue payment from the State. The fact that this is going well is not quite obvious. The Ministry’s advisers state that there is a risk related to the implementation of the new strategy and that there is uncertainty about the aviation travel market. There is also uncertainty about the negative situation in the world economy and when it will turn around. However, the conclusion of the country’s advisers is that the issue could generate a market return. The issue in SAS is in any case associated with a significant risk – I think it's okay to be clear that it's part of the premise for participation today. In a press release and in the debate, the government has justified participation in the issue by maintaining the basis for viable jobs in Norway and a good grid in Norway and Scandinavia. This is a reason which, in my opinion, is a bit on the side of the matter we are dealing with today. SAS Norway is – as far as I understand – a company with relatively good profitability. The Norwegian aviation market is a relatively attractive aviation market. This does not necessarily mean that the workplaces in SAS Norway and the grid and the flight offer in Norway would be directly injured if the company had to undergo a bankruptcy process and get new owners to the Norwegian business. I also note that this part of the justification is little apparent from the proposition itself and that in the conclusion under Section 8.3 ‘Total assessment’, only economic returns are argued. The right considers that developments both in SAS and in European aviation confirm that it is no longer obvious that we should have a state owned Scandinavian airline. It is not a good thing that the State is perceived to have a closer relationship with one of the market players and that the State provides capital to one of the players, who is then in competition with others. I therefore think it is a logical consequence of this that Stortinget gives the government a long-term power to sell the shares in SAS. Such an authorisation will provide the Government with back coverage to support the solutions that may be relevant in the context of the further development of the company. It is obvious that the Government has already given support — active or passive — to SAS working with solutions that involve a different ownership of the company. I think it would have been neat that even in Stortinget a mandate had been put in for this, when this is obviously a realistic opportunity for the state and it is working on such solutions from time to time. In conclusion, it is easy to join the criticism of the strategy of both the SAS group and the SAS trade union in the last decade. The bill is now taken by the shareholders and the employees, who lose the job. The situation in SAS shows that the State is not necessarily the best owner of enterprises operating in a complex competitive market. The picture is the same for the state’s investment in Aker Holding – which incidentally was supported by the Progress Party – and in other state enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e223	Similarly to other airlines, SAS has experienced turbulent years. After a certain amount of hardship and economic surplus in 2006 and 2007, the problems intensified in 2008. Increasing fuel prices in parts of the year and a strong drop in air traffic due to economic downtime have contributed to this. The subsidiary Spanair has been particularly hard frame. In 2008, SAS received a deficit of SEK 6.3 billion, with 4.9 billion associated with Spanair. This, of course, has weakened the company's soundness. The equity situation may be further exacerbated in the next quarters – until rising demand and the rationalisation measures put in place provide a basis for surplus in the company. In view of this, the SAS Board of Directors has proposed to extend the capital of the company with an increase of approx. 6 billion Swedish krona through a right-of-preferential auction. There is a requirement for the issue to be closed for all major shareholders to participate. It's also important to get this in place quickly. The Government proposes that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade be empowered to participate in an increase in the capital of SAS and to maintain the current ownership of the State. So this is the background. The Christian People's Party believes that participation in the issue is the best way to secure the state's share values, both in the short term and in a medium term. The Christian People's Party fears that a no-participating party will be able to bring the company into a situation of financial stress, with consequent negative consequences for the company's functions, for adding and for the country's values. The Christian People's Party emphasises that the issue depends on the participation of all four major owners, and that it will not be a realistic alternative in today's situation. The Christian People's Party wants to secure the value of taxpayers in the company and will stress that it is important that the state acts as a responsible owner of the companies in which the state has axles. The Christian People's Party therefore joins in the proposal to participate in the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e236	What we are discussing today is an allocation from Stortinget of 720 million. NOK 860 million. Swedish krona, due to the very difficult economic situation of SAS, have come into play – not least because of problems related to the purchase of Spanair. Some – especially the Progress Party – discuss this issue and move it on to a question of the liquidation of the State involvement in SAS. I have to say it is quite surprising that the history of SAS, which – not least in the Nordic context – has meant a great deal. SAS now has a more than 60-year history. When I think back to the development that has been going on in North Norway, it is so that SAS in many ways took over the very central role of Hurtigruten as the base aircraft network was built in the north. That's how you got an airport at Kirkenes, at Banak, in Alta – Tromsø got a regular airfield as well as Bardufoss, Evenes and Bodø. This meant that what could previously be a week's journey – also for bigots representatives from Finnmark for example. To take part in the debates — a trip of two hours was made. That the Progress Party here and now on the question of a grant case proposes with just a pen stroke to wind up the state involvement in SAS, says how unscrupulous and easy to approach such a central case for a company with over 60-year-old traditions. I remember as a boy in 1962–63 that Metropolitan came to Alta for the first time, and the whole population gathered around it. You went to Tromsø and you switched to DC-7 there. Then SAS as one of the first companies across Europe had jumped over the development of turbopropping machines and bought Caravelle. DC-9 came to Alta in 1969, then SAS got MD-80 – and then they've had the merger with Braathens. SAS has meant a great deal in the Norwegian community perspective. I think it is strange that Øyvind Korsberg, who is from a municipality that has had such great development precisely because of this company, can express that we can only sell it, and that he does not have a single little historical line of what it has meant for North Norway. The opposition is completely divided in this matter, so there would have been another government, it would have been impossible to know what the outcome had really been. But there is no doubt that the Progress Party is going the farthest, with the dramatic consequences it would have. It is clear that the ring-effects this has caused have meant that a number of Norwegian municipalities – not least my own – have had significant growth. Then, a few years ago, there was a discussion about the competitive situation and the establishment of Norwegian. With the termination of the bonus scheme and as the situation is now, we have two large, reasonably functioning airlines in Norway, which are also positive. But you can't just say that let's get rid of the state commitment, let's put it on private hands, let's hope that it goes well -- without discussing what's going to be social development, not least in North Norway. As Norwegian representatives, we have a special responsibility for this. It's an engagement I miss from Øyvind Korsberg. I had hoped that he could have elaborated his views on what he thinks this would have had as a consequence, how he looks at the historical lines and what meaning SAS has had over these 60 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e253	Initially, I would like to say in general that it must be a goal that Norway should be an attractive country for business. Norwegian enterprises shall have good owners who have long-term prospects for their ownership and who provide networks, market access and competences to enterprises. Competition in the global economy places high demands on commercial competence. In the long run, no one is profiting from artificial breathing in the form of state capital. The objective of direct public ownership must be to pursue economic activities that the market otherwise cannot, for example: specific infrastructure tasks or the management of key common values. It is not an objective that state-owned enterprises should offer products and services on purely market terms that can be done equally well by private individuals. In most cases, the interests of the Community can be better served by the use of laws, framework conditions and control authorities. Therefore, where there are no specific reasons for state ownership, the country should sell out of the establishments. With regard to the case under consideration today, the Left believes that participation in the issue is the best way to secure the country's share values at present and perhaps also in a medium-term perspective. A no today would have a negative impact on the values of the state in the company. The left is occupied by the State as a professional owner. It will be by being positive in this case at this point in time. One also sees the need for time for the company to convert and implement new strategies adapted to the new challenges facing aviation and SAS today. In 2008, the company received a deficit of SEK 6.3 billion. Most of this – 4.9 billion – was a result of deficits and depreciation in Spain. That exposure has been reported in the consolidated financial statements for 2008. A major question mark must be placed on the strategy that led to the Spanish involvement and the assessments that were behind this critical choice. I hope that the Council of State will comment on this in its article. It is also appropriate to point out that SAS has been and is an important part of Norwegian infrastructure with its grid and other services. Both the direct and indirect jobs associated with the activities of SAS have been a good contribution to the labour market. But it is often a difficult balance for the public to be the owner of a company that competes in a free market where there are also other competitors. One must be vigilant so that the State does not distort competition for the benefit of some operators rather than others. In the long term, the Left does not see compelling reasons why the State should maintain its ownership of a private carrier. Therefore, the Left already wants to signal in this case that it is right for the future to allow SAS to acquire a different ownership, preferably as part of a larger aviation unit. Finally, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his good work. I would like to promote the proposal made by the Left on page 4 of the vote. Otherwise, we are behind the majority vote of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e273	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e276	Let me first of all thank the Committee and the rapporteur for the work that has been done in a very short time. The position shows — so far as is reflected in the debate — that there is broad agreement on the Government’s proposal to participate in the SAS equity expansion. SAS, as several speakers have said, has had weak financial results since 2001, and I believe we can quickly agree that it is both due to the fact that the competitive situation has been demanding and that SAS has incurred excessive costs. So SAS has been working for a long time to become more competitive and achieve stable profitability, but has not been able to do anything in particular to date. As we know, last year SAS had a deficit of SEK 6.3 billion. In February this year, the SAS Board launched a new strategic plan to ensure SAS as a viable airline for the future. The main elements of that plan are, as has been said here, domestic investment, business travel, reduction of the company's costs, a more streamlined organisation and also strengthening the company's capital situation. I also want to pay tribute to both the board of directors, the employees of the company and the management, who I now experience have a completely different culture than that which unfortunately has been the case to a great extent until today. As you know, the Government is in favour of participating with its share of the increase in equity in SAS. It is a solution that will both continue to ensure a good grid in Norway – it is important, because we live in the country in which we live – and will also help to make jobs safer than they would otherwise have been if countries and owners had not gone into more equity. As we estimate, the increase in equity of approximately SEK 6 billion makes sense in order to also be able to maintain our values in SAS in a good way. We've been using external advisors from the Department who have concluded that SAS must be invested in capital and that the state's investment could yield a market return. As you know, the Swedish state, the Danish state and the Wallenberg Foundation are also positive. In this process, we have been in close contact with the other owners, and the various countries have now – as before – been engaged in acting in a coordinated manner. We will continue to do that in important ownership decisions in the future. I believe that the decision to invest in the Nordic domestic market, where SAS has a clear advantage, is correct. Activities in Norway, including onions, will continue to be an important part of the group’s activities. I also think that the bet on business travellers makes sense. This could result in a reduction – we already know – in the number of routes and flights, but we have no basis for believing that the route offer in Norway will be particularly affected by this. This applies mainly to routes out of Norway where SAS is in competition with low-priced operators. So everyone in this room knows that an important element of the board's plan is cost reductions. If this company is to be viable in the long term — and that is the objective — it is absolutely necessary for SAS to reduce its costs. SAS will in future have a much more streamlined organisation than they've had up to now. As is known, the national companies are wound up in the form they have been before, and the planning and business management are added to SAS centrally. This will result in a significant cost reduction. I assume that employees and management will continue to work to reduce the necessary costs in the future, and that the reorganisation will take place in interaction between the company and the organisations. I note that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, support the Government's proposal. I think it's interesting that a Northern Norwegian representative from the Progress Party said no to this, as they follow it would have had both for grids, for workplaces and for the values of the state. The board of SAS has worked hard over the last year on new solutions for the future, and I am pleased that a majority in this room supports the Government in our going in with equity to ensure that SAS – literally – can fly on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e302	An important element of the cost-saving measure taken by SAS is the employees and their contributions. There are many trade unions in SAS, but overall, this is going to provide an annual savings of SEK 1.3 billion. It is good that the employees are involved and contribute. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to give praise to the employees in SAS – I use SAS a lot when flying to North Norway, which many people have made a point of. I also fly with Norwegian, and it's just as good service in both companies – so that's what they said. But now it's the time for the Norwegian Cabinet Association to have a press conference at 4 p.m. 13 today, that is, after we have decided on this matter. Then I just want to ask the Council of State: does the Council know what is contained in the package to be presented by the Norwegian Cabinet Association? Are there cost-saving measures, as stated in the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e311	I can't say anything about the press conference they're going to have later, but what underpins the decision Stortinget has been invited to do is that the employees of SAS, along with the management and the board, have come up with a strategic plan for the future that we have faith in. A good part of it is said to be about cost reductions, and I also want to give credit to the employees that they are involved in it. What's new now is that this is obligating things for the future. What we have experienced in some contexts before is that things have been said and done – and that is not what has happened in reality. I expect that what has now been said, and which has been communicated to Stortinget, is followed up by SAS – I have no reason to believe anything else – so that through this we can ensure that SAS can fly on in the demanding competitive situation that we are currently in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e318	I agree with the Council of State that the idea of selling in today's situation appears strange, to say it carefully. But what's more interesting is what's going to happen to the ownership of SAS in a more long-term perspective. It is clear from the letter of 25 February from the Council of State to the Committee that SAS has informed its owners that it is working with different strategic options, and it is obvious that one of the options there was another company taking over the total ownership of SAS. The right and part of the opposition point out that this should be open and that a power should be created from the Storting for sale, so that the framework of ownership in SAS is clearly defined in the decision in Stortinget. Does not the Council of State take into account the situation of the company and the situation in Norwegian aviation — not least historically, as the Council of State itself describes — that such a sales authorisation would have been reasonable, given what should now be the ownership policy of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e325	There is no secret, as the representative Hansen also points out, that SAS has over time assessed different structural solutions. That's what they have had to do, given the dramatic situation they've been in, and partly they're still in. They have concluded from what Storting is probably going to agree with today, that the best solution now is to go in with equity. In the case of the issue of sale or not sale, the facts are per. today that we have no bid on the state's shares. Should such a bid come, the Government will normally consider it. What Stortinget had to decide, I don't want to go up in. We will consider that if or if there is a current problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e332	The Economic and Social Committee received a letter from the Central Association of Professional Organisations dated 6 March 2009. It is perceived that that organisation is concerned about future jobs in SAS in Norway. It is probably also true that the Danish and Swedish authorities, as owners, have been more competent to take care of the jobs in their countries in relation to the Norwegian authorities. The letter concludes with a call for Norwegian jobs to be kept. Does the Council share the criticism expressed in that letter? Does the Council of State consider that Norwegian authorities have been competent enough as owners to maintain Norwegian competence and jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e339	I have also had dialogue with several SAS organisations on behalf of the Government, including the YS. But it is not the government, neither in Sweden, Denmark or Norway, who sits and negotiates in terms of jobs. Mr. Kongshaug knows that. That is the responsibility of the board and the management. I am not going into any kind of negotiations about it. Therefore, I believe that there is no team to say that one government or one country has been better or worse than others to keep or not keep jobs. However, what I am absolutely sure of is that if the Storting today did not make the decision that I understand is that you do – and I am pleased about that – we would have faced a completely different situation for the employees of SAS. The introduction of equity from the three countries and the Wallenberg Foundation means that more jobs are also safer in Norway than would otherwise have been. But both SAS, Norwegian, the aviation industry in Norway, Europe and the world are facing a very demanding situation because of the financial situation we are in. That makes no one per. today can provide guarantees for jobs, neither here nor there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e346	I am a little concerned with the decision-making basis that the Stortinge today makes its decisions. Instead, I was told that there was no overview of the organisations' contributions, as indicated in the proposal. Then I have a question for the Council of State: Does the Council know how many employees in Norway are going to lose their jobs because of that savings package? And how many flights might be set in Norway? And then I have to refer to an article that was in the Financial Newspaper on Friday, March 6, where it appears that SAS is hiding billions of losses in terms of securing aviation fuel. That billion loss is SEK 1.7 billion. Why isn't that mentioned in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e355	Let me first say that Stortinget has been given all the supporting material that is needed to make the decision. Nothing has been held back there, and it is not true that we do not have an overview of it. But what we don't have an overview of, and neither is it natural for a magnificence or government to know all the details about, because it's not our responsibility, is how many employees there are – here or there. When it comes to the grid in Norway, we've been told that it's going to be unchanged, without anyone giving a guarantee for the future, the way the world is. What I think is interesting now is that the representative Korsberg suddenly cares so much for the employees. In any case, what the Progress Party has said from interlocutors, in debates and in the vote is that they do not support the expansion of equity. It would have been dramatic for Norwegian jobs! Nor does the reasoning of the Progress Party relate to reality here. If we hadn't gone into SAS with money, many jobs in Norway would have broken. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e365	The President would draw attention to the fact that ‘do not hold hands’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e368	I want to come back to a topic that the representative of Gullvåg raised in his article on aviation competition. Gullvåg said something such as that the authorities had deprived SAS of competitive advantages in the Nordic market, that it was a disadvantage for the company to remove the bonus points scheme from Norwegian aviation, and that this opened up to so-called cheap companies in Norwegian aviation. I want to say that in the last period, the Right worked a lot to get this competition in Norwegian aviation. We are very pleased that the low-cost Norwegian company has entered Norwegian aviation and thus provided passengers with a better offer and lower prices. It is clear that Gullvåg lacks time with monopoly in aviation and sky-high prices for Norwegian air travellers, especially those who are going to the districts. My question is: can the Government ensure that it does what it can to maintain competition in aviation, and that there are no plans to reintroduce award points and thus hit the legs of the low-cost companies in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e377	Let me first say that I do not suspect the representative Gullvåg to want to return to a time when it was much higher flight prices – so that's what they said. We also believe that Norwegian's take on the Norwegian market has been good for competition, good for consumers, and that they have done a lot for Norwegian aviation. I believe that it is important to keep that competition in the future. As a logical consequence, we believe it is important to go into the increase of equity in SAS, so that that competition can be there. I believe that this is an advantage both for the nationwide network, for consumers, and hopefully also in terms of prices. I can therefore guarantee that this government is committed to maintaining competition in the grid in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e384	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e389	I just want to comment on some of the challenges I've been facing. Some people have made a point that I am a Northern Norwegian wholesaler who should understand the value of SAS. I can only tell you that I have lived next to Tromsø Airport in all my childhood and childhood – that is perhaps why I have lost my hearing a little. I have at least come to realize that the representative Ballo was concerned with the historical lines. Of course, if you start with defending history, of course, it's still natural to maintain ownership of SAS, and want to buy up. We don't have any trouble seeing exactly the historical lines, but the future isn't based on old stories. The future is what lies ahead of us now – the situation in Norwegian and international aviation is quite different today from what it was before. It has also been mentioned in the setting, page 4, column 1 – so that Olav Gunnar Ballo can bring it with him. So I want to repeat that the employees of SAS have done a good job. It's the former leaders who have failed radically. What is also important for us is to take care of the consumers – that is, the travellers – and give them an offer. I would like to remind you again that when SAS had a monopoly in Norway for a period of time, the ticket prices were sky-high. You can also see that on the routes SAS has a monopoly today, they are far more expensive than on the routes where there is competition. So we're too competitive to make the best offer. When there is competition, it is the best that survives, and the employees of SAS have a good opportunity in that way. I'm still a little confused about the representative Torbjørn Hansen and Right. A proposal to give a long-term mandate is being put forward. If that proposal had been adopted, the Government had obtained a mandate, but that authority could be used quite quickly. So there's no lead from the Right that this is long-term. I record that the Right goes away from what they meant in the ownership message, and that they now have a new policy that is going to spend an enormous amount of money to defend small values in the company. The right has also failed to confirm what the party is going to do next time SAS comes continuously to the Government to ask for more money, so I think the Right is going to have to take a debate on the Chamber and design the policy they want in aviation. As it is now, I can unfortunately not say that the Right flies on autopilot – they fly almost without a map and compass and no one in the cockpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e402	I find it interesting in many ways that representatives of parties who, in close proximity to everything, are cultivating free and sacred competition, do not see that competition can produce such an outcome that it favours individual players in a market. The SAS situation is not only that they compete with Norwegian on the Norwegian domestic aviation market, they also compete with international, larger companies, both inside and outside Scandinavia. What may appear to be a similar domestic competitive situation may be a different situation abroad. What I did in my previous post today was to ask questions as to whether it could not be that perhaps SAS today has been brought into a very unfortunate competitive situation with their international competitors, as a result of the fact that in the Norwegian market there is no opportunity to issue award credits for domestic air travel. I also think that this is the question, Mr President. Hansen should be concerned about, precisely because it would be best for consumers to have a level playing field – not to favour a Scandinavian airline, but to equalise it internationally in competition. Then, of course, I am amazed that the Progress Party without crushing is going in to shut down a company that has historically been very important to the development of Norwegian aviation. What they are proposing here today is to shut down the company and throw waste on the values that, after all, are there. Although, really, I shouldn't be particularly surprised at that, because that's how the Progress Party acts almost in any commercial policy context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e413	I noticed what Øyvind Korsberg said, that ‘the future is not based on old stories’. That's an interesting statement. If you think that you shouldn't build the future on the story you're taking into the future, what kind of society would you get? If turning back in this room, it wouldn't matter, then the Constitution wouldn't even matter. The point just has to be to take care of the historical roots. What you have to be willing to do, however, is, of course, change, change, willingness to make things happen on premises other than before – and we have that will in SV. I believe that some of the misinvestments we see about, for example. The fast route, makes it absolutely necessary to discuss another transport pattern for the Hurtigruten. In order to improve the traffic base of travel life in the case of regular services, we need to discuss changes in the route pattern of air traffic. But one of the most interesting things about the Progress Party is that if you see that there are choices to lose on it, you don't get involved in that either. Kenneth Svendsen did not wish for everything in life for Vardø airport to be closed. What is paradoxical there is that it is as far from Vardø to Vadsø as it is from Oslo to Gardermoen, and Vardø has an airport, while it does not have Oslo. There are about as many airports operating in Finland as there are in Denmark. The difference is that there are 72 000 people living in Finnmark, while in Denmark there are about 6 million people living there. It's an interesting debate, because if you start discussing this from a social point of view, you might think you could have had a route pattern with other types of transport in Finnmark that would have had far fewer airports. But as long as you say that you let competition decide what is going to be there, you will of course dramatically reorganize what is of transport in Finnmark. In return, we see that when it starts to burn under the feet of the Progress Party, and they see that the voters react, for example. in a community such as Vardø, the competition shall no longer apply. Then you have to take the lead so that that airport does not have to be closed, and it must not be closed – at least not here in Northern Ireland where I come from, because then I lose voters. Then you also say, and I repeat, the future is not based on old stories. So that means that it has to be a policy from hand to mouth and from day to day, driven by the different winds. And if it's a throw-winner one way, you turn there, and vice versa if it blows another wind. Of course, this will not be long-term, and the consequence for SAS, if one were to follow the policies of the Progress Party, would have been that the company, perhaps in line with Spanair, had gone for EUR 1 to Lufthansa in a time of crisis, instead of investing in the values laid down in the company over 63 years, sees it in the long term, which fortunately both the Right and the Left are concerned with, ensuring the values, securing jobs and ensuring the route pattern of air traffic in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e432	The representative Korsberg explained some confusion around the Right Voting today. It is up to the individual representative to explain his confusion from this pulpit, but what I tried to find out in my post is that in today's situation – in such a financial instability – it is unrealistic, it is unrealistic, and it will be to zero out the values of the state and taxpayers in the SAS company. So that's not an available solution. Therefore, it is necessary to participate in the issue. However, the fact that we are simultaneously proposing a long-term sales authorisation, or in so far as a short-term sales authorisation, allows the State to sell the shares of SAS at any time if a good solution is found. But it's obvious to everyone who's following this situation -- I think it's also true for Korsberg -- that doing a sale now is completely unrealistic. I also think that the Progress Party should take over. It's also quite funny to observe the attitude to state ownership from the representative Korsberg, who a little over a year ago supported the government's purchase of shares in Aker Holding at NOK 5 billion, an investment that has now incurred a loss of more than 70 pst. It would have been interesting to hear why Korsberg would sell shares in SAS for zero dollars, while he bought shares in Aker Holding for five billion kroner. Otherwise, I understand that the representative of Gullvåg disagrees with the Council of State on competition in Norwegian aviation. We just have to take note of that. Another issue that I would like to raise at the end of the debate is a press release from the Norwegian Cabinet Association that is out there today. This is about the 2008 collective agreement negotiations and having a membership meeting today on 12 March at 9.30 p.m. 13 and to inform about the outcome of these 2008 collective agreements negotiations, which have been concluded. For the sake of order, I just want to ask the Council of State if she knows whether the outcome of these collective agreement negotiations affects what is mentioned in the proposition, whether there is anything about this matter that indicates that the trade union does not have the clear, constructive line to the process of conversion in SAS that the Storting has been informed about in this proposition. It would be very surprising if it were at the press conference at 5 p.m. 13 today, after the Storting has dealt with this issue issue, something changes the basis on which the Storting has decided in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e443	Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e446	I'm also excited about what's coming out of the Norwegian Cabinet Association press conference, but I guess the Council of State will come up and explain that. Just for the representative of Gullvåg, it's not like we want to shut down SAS. We just don't want us to spend 700-800 million. the taxpayers’ money to go into the company. It's also said from SAS that if you didn't get an entire issue, the company wouldn't go bankrupt, but you would be in a heavier situation. To the representative of Ballo: in half a minute I am unable to explain the entire transport policy of the Progress Party, but the element of competition is an important piece, just as it was for Hurtigruten when it was out for tenders and was exposed to competition. So here's the purchase of services, and it's not about shutting down any flights. Then it is only nice to record that the Right comes after the Advance Party in terms of the power to sell SAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e457	To the question that several representatives have asked about the press conference that the Norwegian Cabinet Association will have later today: it is therefore about the conclusion of the negotiations for 2008, and there is nothing in what will be presented, as I have been informed about it, or anything else that would affect any of the decision-making bases or information given to the Stortinget or what the Stortinge can adopt later today. So that's the same basis that applies. There is nothing new about that, but it is the end of the negotiations for 2008. So just a brief remark to the representative Torbjørn Hansen and what he refers to as loss in relation to Aker Solutions, or what happened in relation to Aker Kværner and it bought. Everyone sees that in the financial crisis we are now in, there are a lot of companies, including those in which the state owns or is a partner, as per. less value now on the stock exchange. It's like being a long-term owner. Now it's gone down extremely much. But it goes up and down, and that's why we're long-term owners. So I think it's going to be wrong when it's described as a loss, in this case in relation to Aker Solutions. In the end, it's interesting to hear the representative Korsberg say here that the Progress Party does not want to shut down SAS, but nevertheless has the intention of voting against an increase in equity. Now I understand that ‘not hanging in touch’ is not a parliamentary expression, but I just have to say that the consequence of voting against what I am fortunately glad that the majority here supports, namely going into SAS with equity, would have been very dramatic, for SAS, for jobs and for grids, whether you live in North Norway, or where else you live in this country. To those who walk around thinking that it would have no meaning, I must, with respect to reporting, say, 'They are wrong.'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e480	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e487	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e510	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to reduce its holding in SAS AB in connection with acquisitions, mergers or strategic alliances.’; The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-12.ana.ud855e681	The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone require a word under Rule 37(a) before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
