ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e55	The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs proposes, in its proposal, to strengthen the rules on the sustainability of public officials and elected representatives who are also directors or members of the board of directors or business meetings of public whole-time companies. An official or elected representative is in a position to deal with matters if he or she is a manager or has a leading position or is a member of the board or the business meeting of a company that is a party to the proceedings. However, this does not apply if the company is wholly owned by the country. A unanimous committee has noted that it is very common for elected representatives of the municipalities and county councils to have senior positions in municipal and county companies. Such a combination may be desirable for reasons of coordination, efficiency and management. In this context, the Committee points out that the rules of the Administrative Act also include elected representatives in municipalities and counties under the Local Government Act. Should an official have a personal interest in a case or where private and municipal companies are in a competitive position, this would be covered by the rules on incapacity. Indeed, the intention is to avoid any doubt as to the viability of public officials. On the basis of a principle assessment, there does not appear to be any basis for having different rules on the state, local authorities and county authorities in this area. The main practical considerations and the needs of the municipalities have led to changes in the relevant provision in due course and to the exclusion of wholly-owned municipal companies from the rules on automatic incapacity. The combination of municipal offices and boards may be unfortunate in cases where there are conflicts of interest between the company and the municipality of ownership. The risk of a representative identifying himself with the interests of the company may, in my opinion, be particularly great when he has active co-responsibility for the company's activities, including for the financial result. The main purpose of organising municipal activities in separate companies is often to relieve them in their own independent profit and loss units and to limit the financial liability if a limited liability company is chosen as a form. The proposed amendment to the Administrative Act provides for a substantial and necessary clarification of the rules on stability. The need to exercise discretion through the application of the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Administrative Act, which states that the official is incapacitated if “special circumstances exist that are suitable for weakening the trustworthiness of his impartiality”, is eliminated in the cases where he has senior positions in publicly owned companies. Another important reason for applying the rules is people's confidence in politicians. When one sees a politician sitting on both sides of the table, this helps to support the ever-increasing political debate in the Norwegian people. There is nothing in the way that municipalities can place politicians in the organs of companies, if the owners consider this appropriate. However, a natural consequence should be that they must resign when elected bodies where they are members deal with matters relating to companies where they may be on the board or have other senior positions. I think it is strange that the government is nevertheless proposing to erode the provision, which in turn leads to an almost unchanged legal situation. I am aware of situations in which the Executive Director, the Chairperson, the Chairperson, the Board of Directors, the Head of Representation or the members of the representatives of intercommunal companies or the municipal whole share company have actively worked to prevent the transparency and control of the company. This has been successful due to continuous representation through their other elected positions in the control committee, Presidency or local government. This is unfortunate. I would like to remind the Stortinget of recent revelations and investigations, where a major case was rolled up regarding Lower Rome-rich Waterworks and RA2 sewage treatment plant. Here it was pointed out that there was a continuous representation between the boards of companies and the political and administrative level of the municipalities of ownership. Because of this mixture of roles, they were criticised for not caring for their responsibilities to the companies, rather for seeing the consequences of this mix of roles. When the Government's proposal to amend the law is adopted, I believe that the recent disclosures and demands for transparency in the relationship between municipal authority and municipal activities and the provision of services by companies organised as an inter-municipal company or a limited liability company on behalf of the municipality will be in vain. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e83	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e86	The majority believe that it is important that elected and public officials are members of boards or business meetings of public whole companies. At the same time, it is important to stress the need to have sound and clear responsibilities within the administration. The tightening up that is adopted today will not prevent municipalities themselves from organizing their ownership or their governance of municipal owned companies that are now. In the view of the majority, the legislative proposal will provide clarification and will be easy to deal with for the users of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e91	I am pleased that the Committee endorses the Government's proposal on changes to the administrative law and that the Committee agrees that the proposal will have a clarifying effect. This proposal is part of the Ministry of Local and Regional Ethics, which is intended to provide the best possible opportunity for trust-building management. The proposal also received broad support in the hearing. Of the people who spoke on the proposal, 75 went pst. in order to cancel the exemption. Among the municipalities and county councils that gave their opinion, 67 pst went. in for the same thing. KS is also for this. I know a lot of people have been waiting for this change in law. We are now approaching a clarification of the question of viability associated with involvement in public companies. It is a matter that has been debated for a long time, for example. in the report of the Smith Committee which examines the situation in the Municipality of Oslo at the beginning of the 1990s. So now the same strict rules as they apply to private companies, also apply to public companies. The trust in local democracy is based on local authorities managing power and public resources for the benefit of the community. Then we need good rules that make sense to the inhabitants, to the suppliers and to the community in general. The roles within the municipal enterprise are now becoming clearer. Clear roles are important if citizens are to have confidence in municipalities. If the elected representatives have several roles in one case, questions may be asked about whether he or she is havoc or neutral when the decisions are to be taken. Today, one has to go back to dealing with matters in the municipality if one is a member of the board of a company that is a party to the case, but this default rule does not apply to companies that are fully owned by the state or municipality. Here, the municipality needs to see the soundness of its municipal activities be superior to the principle of role-clearance. The background to a tightening of the law is also the increase in the use of companies and other liberalised forms of organisation in municipalities. It is important that most people trust that competition is fair when municipally owned companies participate in the competition for municipal contracts. I argued after this that there should be no doubt that they would add to the community and that the elected representatives would treat everyone the same way. It is also important that these companies do not achieve special advantages in other ways. There are many municipally owned companies that manage large amounts of money. Then it is also particularly important to have good municipal control. In the past, enough thought has been given to a set of elected members of the government, ensuring the popular control of municipally owned companies. I understand that this idea is now superseded by a perspective where one sees that the board members are actually representatives of the company. Now municipalities and municipalities have to find other ways to control and control their companies, for example. through ownership messages. I am confident that they will find out. The law changes will apply to the entire administration, but I assume that it will not mean so much new to the government sector, because the government has its own regulations that limit the need for government officials to be appointed to such positions. Clear, clear roles provide a good basis for trust in municipalities. Trust is important for local democracy to work. I'm glad we're now streaming in. So just a few short comments on the narrow exception being passed on. In fact, there's a slight exception, and I'm referring to Ib Thomsen that there might be a slight misunderstanding from the Progress Party's side. The proposal came up in connection with healthcare professionals and the model they are currently being followed for. The question was then: will it be so that this amendment of the law may lead to, for example: one designated in the Health West, cannot sit as a member of the board, for example. For the health of the mountains, which is in subjection to the West of Health? We think that there should still be room for that, and that's why a slight exception is being passed on here. It shall be such for the municipalities and for municipal companies that, in each case where there may be the least competition, there shall be no disruption. I have to make sure that when it comes to the practice, i.e. how this exception is intended to be practised, it has to be announced and informed about it. It's true that when we write a card here and -- let's say -- okay, paragraph, it's possible to misunderstand what the idea is. It shall be illuminated. It should also be such that we should follow closely whether the practice is consistent with the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e114	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 671]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e131	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 672]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e148	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the main speakers from the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e157	Working life is in continuous development, and it is therefore essential that the Working Environment Act be developed and adapted to the conditions under which it is to be regulated. In the proposition we are discussing today, we are making a number of clarifications and adjustments that the experience with the law has shown will be necessary. We also deal with two important reforms, namely the introduction of an approval system for occupational health services and the equality of shifts and turns. I want to focus in my article on those parts of the proposition where there is disagreement in the committee. Section 4-1, new third paragraph, proposes to include in the legal text itself an employer's risk assessment and, where appropriate, risk mitigation measures in the case of work alone. This is a necessary visualisation of the general obligation of the employer to assess the risks and to implement risk mitigation measures. There is now a strong focus on the risk of experiencing violence and threats in single workplaces in professions with customer/client contact, but this provision also includes other pressures and risks. In a letter to the Labour Inspectorate, the main associations on the labour side have requested that the European Agreement on Harassment and Violence be reviewed in view of whether relevant parts can be prescribed. The Government Parties take note of this enquiry and assume that the proposed legislative amendment will be considered after some time in relation to the need for a regulation. Paragraphs 3 to 3 new fifth paragraph provide for a regulatory support for an approval scheme for occupational health services. Such an approval system is absolutely necessary now. Ever since we received a claim for occupational health service in 1977, there have been discussions about what is a real occupational health service, what is to be included in services, etc. We know that in many cases serious occupational health services are struggling to compete with actors who like to offer an annual medical check-up, or meat inspection as many call it, and nothing about preventive work, health assessment, environment and company safety etc. An approval system setting minimum requirements for competence, volume of service and quality assurance may open up those currently operating unprofessionally. The Contracting Party proposes to grant industry-specific approval. This, I think, would be unwise and bureaucratic. It is basically a quality to have expertise and experience from several industries when we talk about preventive HMS work. In addition, many smaller sites in Norway do not want a basis for many different occupational health services. With the proposals of the Progress Party, the occupational health service in such places must stick to a whole set of approvals, which will be bureaucratic and not appropriate. Let me say a few words about a matter that we were made aware of at the Committee's hearing, but which has not been mentioned in the vote: it concerns the use of the concept of occupational health services versus the former term 'protection and health professionals'. The concept was changed when the new Work Environment Act was adopted in 2005, but it has not been intended that this would involve material changes. The term ‘business health service’, as used in law, regulations and guidance, shall be interpreted to include the same functions as the term ‘protection and health workers’ in the old law. I also refer in this connection to letters to the organisations from the Council of State of 26 September 2007. In the first paragraph of Section 6-5, we reintroduce the legal text on protection ombudsmen and members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take on compulsory training in the direction of employees' organisations. This right was removed from the legal text in 2005 but has remained unchanged in the regulation on protection ombudsmen and occupational health and safety at work, which has created undue doubt as to what is right and wrong. It is such that all protective officers and members of the AMU shall have a mandatory 40-hour initial training. The training content frameworks are set out in the regulations. In the private sector, agreements have been reached between the parties on the content and implementation of training under the auspices of the associations. Reunified professionally-oriented material is used. The Labour Inspectorate expresses the seriousness and loyalty of training in the direction of employee organisations towards the content requirements set by the law. The protection agent is the trustee of the employees, and training must reflect this. The right to take compulsory initial training in the direction of employees’ organisations should therefore be maintained. As is currently being practised, an adapted training of high quality has been given on such courses. Equality of shifts and turns is an old equality requirement. The claim has been strongly endorsed and has been addressed both by the Stortinget and several samples that have been reduced to find solutions. The change in the law that we are dealing with today is a solution that strikes them as strongly as they have thought that the current provisions are unfair. The change could also have a positive effect by contributing to the reduction of undesirable part-time. It is therefore gratifying that the change will have as wide a majority as it gets today, and I note that the proposal has received broad support from the employee organisations. We want workers to be at work for as long as possible, and we want to facilitate this. In our new pension system, it is foreseen that pension credits can be raised to 75 years of age, which does not harmonize with the 70-year-old limit in the Working Environment Act. The proposition states that this has been assessed by the Government, but that in this context no proposals for lifting the border are being made. The majority of the Committee takes note of the Government’s view that it would be natural to return to this issue once the age limits of the labour force have been resolved otherwise in the context of the pension reform. We are told that the main problem in today's working life is not those who want to work after the age of 70 and are not allowed to do so, but are also able to work until their retirement age. The recommendation states that there is a broad consensus on the need for formal requirements for the termination of employment at the age limit reached, although a different age limit is proposed by the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. The last point I want to comment on is the right to stand in the position when business is shut down. An employee has the right to stand in the position in the event of a dispute over the termination. If the employer considers this unreasonable, he may require that the court order the employee to resign from the proceedings. Practice has shown that it is necessary to clarify that this is also the case in the event of total or partial closure of the establishment. If the employer requires termination, it is then up to the court to decide in the usual way whether it is unreasonable that the employment continues in a dispute. This is a clarification of the procedure in the event of closure — it shall not be automatic in the event of termination in the event of termination of the holding in whole or in part. For the other changes and comments to these, I refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e195	In the position of the law we are dealing with today, there is a broad majority behind most of the proposals, suggesting that the necessary steps have been taken which are actually behind a total accumulation. However, I would like to comment on the few areas where the Progress Party differs from the majority. The case rapporteur was concerned with what was going on in occupational health services. Now it is not that the Progress Party is very concerned about getting a bureaucratic and heavy corporate health service. But we're also recording what happened during the hearing, that the system that the government is now introducing can be very expensive, costly, and therefore we've taken these recordings into account in the hearing. That is why we believe it would be sensible and wise to believe that, to a greater extent – yes, we need to make changes to today’s occupational health service – the professionally qualified person has the competence to do so. So, with shifts and turns, which was also the subject of the case rapporteur, and which I'm glad he was in. That's where we all agree. I think there are a lot of people who, among other things. health services, which are affected by involuntary part-time work, which is pleased with the decision taken by Odelstinget today, and which is a broad majority, an overall focus behind it. I think that's positive, and that's a right decision we're making today. So that the Protector should have the opportunity to receive qualified training. Of course, the Progress Party agrees. We agree, and we think it is important that the protection ombudsmen receive the necessary training, qualified training, so that they can, to the best of their ability, take care of health, the environment and safety at their place of work. But then we think it's a little strange that you have to have a legal home – as we see it at least – so that it's only a course that the trade union movement arranges that you should be able to go on. We believe that it makes sense to also ensure access to other types of training that may be relevant to the training and skills needed at the workplace. That's why we have a different view of a change of laws here. So to the 70th anniversary. The Progress Party has always been concerned with a good and forward-looking senior policy. We are concerned that the working capacity does not necessarily have to be assessed on the basis of a year. We see that there are many who are good seniors, who have skills that the labour market wants to have, and who also want to do more work. We know everyone sitting in this room, about the case that went a few years ago in Statoil. We also see that there is a shortage of engineers in the offshore sector and the need for skilled workers. Then we don't think it's natural to set an age limit. The progress party has always said that you don't want to have an age limit, and that in case of termination, there are completely different types of conditions to be taken into account. In case of an incurrency – on page 18 of the setting – the Progress Party has joined a note. The Progress Party is voting against both of these proposals and has its own proposal to remove the age limit. I'll make it very clear. Furthermore, we will go against § 6-5 first paragraph new second sentence and § 3-3 first paragraph first sentence and § 3-3 new fifth paragraph and § 15-11 second paragraph third sentence. I ask that we vote against those paragraphs. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e212	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e215	The proposition we are discussing now addresses a number of different issues with proposals for smaller, yet important changes in the work environment law. As the debate has shown earlier, there is a relatively broad political consensus on most, but on some points there is some political disagreement, perhaps not on goals, but more on when things are going to happen, and instruments a user. Let me comment on some of these points. First, the topic related to the shift/turnus case: From the right, we feel that there are too many and too many unresolved questions relating to the proposal that the Government is promoting. We know that, especially in the health and care sector, the manning situation is already critical in terms of recruiting sufficient staff, and what is proposed here helps to make this situation even more difficult. Here, as we can see from the documents, we also receive support from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which, in the consultation round, stated the following: ‘We therefore consider that we are unable to support the proposal until the financial and personnel impact of the proposal has been further explored.’ The right, therefore, promotes an alternative proposal, as set out on page 12. We also refer to the proposal we have made in the past to introduce a separate pool of skills for the education and training groups in the healthcare sector and for the teachers. So the theme that relates to age limits. About two years ago, the government made a big announcement about senior policy, where I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur. In the big news, the government signaled that they would consider raising the 70-year limit. I thought that was good, although I had probably hoped that you could already be more concrete at the time. However, I had strong expectations that now, when this case was brought forward, at least a necessary step would be taken to soften the existing 70-year limit in the Work Environment Act, but still one is not able to conclude. I think that's a pity, because it basically breaks with a very broad political consensus – at least in words – that it's important to stimulate older people to be strongly wanted in the workplace. The signal at an age limit shall not be underestimated. When the pension reform is so strongly committed to actively stimulating more people to work longer and it should be possible to raise pension funds until they reach the age of 75, I have problems understanding that one could not now be able to take one step in the right direction. Such a step could be to support the proposal on which the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together, namely to set this age limit at 72 years, i.e. an increase from 70 to 72 years. There's at least one step on the way. Finally, a few words about non-recruitment agreements and non-competition clauses. This does not promote concrete proposals at this stage, so it will certainly be an intense political issue on a later occasion. What is happening outside the business world today, where quite extensive non-recruitment agreements are concluded between companies, is almost similar to cartel cooperation. It is possible that after today's law it is legal, but then I think it should be up to the Storting to do something about the legal situation in the area. For this, the ability of employees to change their employer and receive the salary they actually deserve is impaired by the skills they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e231	The representative Martin Engeset then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e234	This is an important day, because we've solved an important principle and equality issue that's been lying like an old workshop for a long time. In 1997 I entered the Stortinget and the first Document No. The 8th proposal I made, together with Mr Ågot Valle's representative, called Document No. 8:6 for 1997–98, and was a proposal to equate three-part shifts and full-continuous turns. The starting point for the proposal was an injustice that had already been there for many years. In 1992, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection concluded that tour work was as stressful and tiring as shiftwork. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate had concluded that it would have to change the law if you were to achieve equality. So different governments have worked on the matter – perhaps with a slightly different pressure – and tried to solve it. When the Soria Moria statement was written, this was one of the important principles of the chapter on employment. A solution has now been found which in practice equates shifts and turns, and which is that one hour of work on Sundays and holidays is counted as 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that every hour of work at night is counted as 1 hour and 15 minutes if you work three times. It is a solution that the employee organisations have also been satisfied with, and then we have in a way found a technical solution to a problem that has been there for a long time. The problem here is a work environment issue. The reason why shiftworkers have had a reduced working time is that they know that this type of work is extra stressful and therefore requires shorter working hours. One of the leading researchers on the tour and shift and this kind of question, Torbjørn Åkerstedt, has researched the question and believes that it is the three-part tour that is worst, especially where you change against the clock, that the exchange is different in women's schools than in the typical man's professions, where the shift goes more evenly from day to day, and that the irregularity of the tour system may be worse than that of the shift system. The researcher has also pointed out that permanent night work is the second worst. That is why I am pleased that the Committee in its comments has said that this is a subject on which we need to look further. While the representative Engeset from the Right concludes that this issue is almost too early, SV believes that it is far overtime, and that this is part of the solution to the problem of recruitment, because you are recruiting on good and equal working conditions. These are typical women's girls, and it is not that an attractive employer continues to be seen as an attractive employer. It is also true that in these professions, unfortunately, statistics show that sick leave and disability are very high. This means that the burden in these professions is heavy, and that we have a lot of reasons to look at what we can do to facilitate the working situation in these professions, so that people can get rid of the health burden that comes with it. Reduction of working time in three-part turns is an important part of this. In addition, it is important to put in place schemes to limit the involuntary part-time. We'll work on that. If you have a small job and you have to run after all the guards and never know when to work, and when you have a job, and how much pay you get – everything is uncertain – that will probably contribute to a work situation that is not very good for your health, and also not particularly recruiting for the sector. So as opposed to the Right, we believe that equalizing turns and shifts is a very good way to recruit more people into the professions. This also applies to the practical aspect of it, the reduction in working time, and there are not a few who have reduced working time. It's calculated that it's up to 30,000, sail if they won't get a full reduction, which will follow those who go in the entire position. There are very many who are affected, and it is time for this amendment to come into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e251	The title of the proposition we are dealing with today is the law on changes in the Working Environment Act. Equal treatment of shift and rotational workers, etc. are in brackets. This may be a bit misleading, because there are many more legislative changes being addressed than what concerns the working time regulations for tour operators. But it does say a little about what individual matter the Government believes is most important of all of them that are being promoted. There are big words about the law change that now stands behind a large majority. Sometimes it can be in place with it – and this is actually such an occasion. Many political initiatives have been taken both from the Christian People's Party and from other parties in this Chamber in order to obtain working time regulations for shift and tour workers who are perceived as more equitable to one another. Different governments have looked at the matter, without luck. And the last attempt to get the parties themselves to clean up, initiated by the Storting, ended in a real quarrel, to say what it is. So, with that history, there should be reason to give the Minister of Labour and Inclusion a ‘go’ pamphlet on the shoulder with thanks for the effort, and at the same time hope that this can lead to many years of unrest in this area now at least significantly. There is a broad consensus on the amendment of the law on shifts/turns. In other areas, there are larger dividing lines. An important theme is the limit to when it is allowed to terminate workers on grounds of age — the so-called 70-year rule. The Christian People's Party believes that all the logic behind the pension reform suggests that this limit should be increased. When it is claimed that this does not apply to so many people and that the main challenge for senior participation is to get 62-65-year-olds to work longer, it is true. But we're not going to underestimate the effect of giving signals through the law. It is difficult to see that raising the age limit for two years, as proposed by the Christian People's Party, will have some particularly negative effects on conflicts of departure. But it has clear positive signal effects. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that much speaks for the fact that there should still be a specific limit in the law. It prevents multiple fuzzy and possibly unworthy processes. But the limit has to be higher than today. We record with surprise that the government is paying for the protection of the working time of persons with special independent jobs. Four years ago, the current government parties were very concerned about maintaining a very detailed regulation of working time for ordinary workers. Even a moderate trend towards more framework regulation was characterised as serious interference with workers’ rights. But when it comes to so-called "specially independent" – a very woolly demarcation in practice – yes, then the government parties still seem to be quite fine with almost total anarchy in the law, to put it at the head. And we're not talking about a small group in the world of work. Investigations in 2006 showed that this figure was 350000 workers. There is a significant and growing proportion of workers defined as particularly independent. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to address a topic of the Working Environment Act that the Christian People's Party has been fighting to increase its focus, namely the effort to combat violence, bullying and harassment in the workplace. Fortunately, Norwegian workers are generally very well off in the workplace. Violence, bullying and harassment at work are not something that the average worker regularly experiences — fortunately. But there's every reason to think it's been and is darkness in this area. There is good reason for the authorities, for employers and for employees to focus on this and to ensure that the steady effort is maintained around it. Nobody is against this of course, but I have the impression that the focus on this area has been weakened. Then I note with some disappointment that the majority of the Committee sees no reason to go through the European Tripartite Agreement on Action against Violence and Harassment to assess whether parts of it are relevant for regulatory purposes in Norway. This is also an example of an action that should not underestimate the signal effect itself. Should the Christian People's Party be held responsible for this matter again in a new government after the election, we shall ensure increased focus. And if we don't get it, we're going to keep the commitment alive and focus up from the pulpit here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e268	We in the Center Party are greatly pleased with the very many who work night and day, night and weekend in health, care and care, and who now achieve equality in working hours with shiftworkers in industry. This is an important equality issue that we in the Centre Party have had the 1997 programme. And it's now 60 years since shiftworkers got reduced working hours. It is high time that in women’s dominated professions with similar burdens, working regularly at night and on weekends receives the same compensation in the form of a reduction in working time in general. We in the centre party have been impatient to quickly come up with changes that take into account the loads that work in the turn involves. Now we have extensive investigations and discussions to build on. What is now legalised means that the reduction in working time is linked to independent and gender-neutral criteria. An hour's work on Sunday and holidays will be counted as 1 hour and 10 minutes, while an hour's work at night will be counted as 1 hour and 15 minutes. The assumption is that the employee's tour plan includes both day, evening and night shifts in addition to Sunday work at least every three Sundays. We understand well those who think we should go even further in order to contribute to better recruitment to positions in this important sector. We believe it is well documented that one-sided night work also has adverse health effects and other pressures. I am pleased that the department is willing to look at issues related to night work alone, and I agree that the impact of the new rules on working time needs to be evaluated after some time. This reform of working time affects many, according to the proposal of 31 000 annual works. Each of these will reduce working time by half an hour a week on average. In total, the reduction in working time will require about 310 new annual works, of which around 190 will be needed in the health sector. Direct compensation of employees is estimated to increase by approx. 210 million. kr. This is a brief response compared to the ‘fear figures’ presented in a previous phase of the discussion of those who have countered these changes. I believe that the positive effects on health and well-being can produce positive ring-effects, which fully cover these costs. I have seen that the Right has used an opinion from the Norwegian Nurses' Association on today's recruitment challenges in the municipal health service as an argument for not supporting these changes. Strange! In its magazine, Norsk Nurses' Association applauds the Government's proposal and wholeheartedly joins the Council of State's words that this is an important issue of equality policy. I would like to thank the nurses for fighting this matter. Congratulations on winning! I am convinced that the changes will mean that more young people will choose carers, that many annual jobs will be saved by reducing sick leave, that more people will choose full-time jobs, and that more people will be able to work a few years longer in active service. I am pleased that only the Right is unilaterally problem-oriented, and that does not see the positive aspects that employee organisations have so strongly highlighted. In the case of the other legislative changes, I refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e285	An overall committee points out that there is particular consideration of an assessment of the risk of violence/trafficking in relation to work alone, which is an important justification for the proposal for a new Section 4-1, third paragraph. It is important here that the fourth paragraph of Section 4-3 of the Working Environment Act requires employers to protect workers as far as possible, against violence and threats from others. The left supports the call from the employee organisations and points out that a general regulation on action against harassment and violence at work has been regulated in Sweden since 1993. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, supports a mandatory authorisation system based on minimum requirements for competence, volume of service and quality assurance. In order to strengthen the serious occupational health services, there must be minimum requirements so that those involved in preventive work are preferred. It is particularly gratifying that there will finally be a better system by equalizing shifts and turns. A number of workers work in schemes that do not have the same amount of inconvenient working time as a whole-continuous shift system but have the disadvantage of working Sundays. This combined disadvantage should also reduce working time for less than 38 hours. It is therefore proposed that, for a three-part shift and rotation work other than that governed by the applicable law, which means that each worker must work at least every three Sundays, the normal working time after the first paragraph is reduced by each hour of work on Sundays and public holidays, cf. Working Environment Act § 10-10 [[1]] A gradual compensation scheme means that for workers with a three-part turnaround, working at night and on Sunday becomes more attractive. The difficulties in providing staff for the vigilance are an important reason for the high level of involuntary part-time in the health and care sector, another significant gender equality challenge. If the reform results in workers choosing to work more frequently on weekends than before, this could help reduce the amount of involuntary part-time work. It is estimated that about 51000 annual works will be affected by the proposal. About 18 000 of these, who work in continuous shiftwork, will get a little less than 1 hour shorter weekly working hours. The other 33 000, mainly within three-part turns, will reduce their working time by half an hour on average. The left is of the opinion that one of the greatest challenges facing us in the welfare society of the future is the relationship between the number of caregivers and the number of workers to care for them. The better solutions we can give to motivate people to work in this sector, the better it will be. There is an important role to be played by pay, rotation and good skills jobs. The welfare society of the future will depend on it. The same applies to the ratio to the 70-year-old age limit. The right, Christian People's Party and Left agree that the 70-year age limit in the Working Environment Act is not a significant obstacle to the participation of seniors in the labour force, and that the main challenge in the years to come is to increase the participation of early retirement groups rather than further work. However, these members also believe that the Labour Environment Act has an important role to play in signaling the increased importance of senior participation and will not underestimate the positive signal effect of increasing the age limit. The Left, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, has therefore made the following proposals: ‘Retirement before the age of 72 due solely to the retirement age of the worker under the National Social Security Act shall not be considered to be justified in substance.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e308	Odelsting today will consider a number of proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act. The proposals concern the whole spectrum of the Working Environment Act, but the main issue is undoubtedly the Government's proposal for equal treatment of working hours for shiftworkers and rotational workers. This is a historically important issue for equality in Norway. As the representatives know, there has been a long-standing demand from employee organisations that a fairer regulation should be put in place. The issue has been addressed and addressed by several governments and by several samples. And the matter has been discussed in Stortinget several times without finding its solution. I am therefore, on behalf of the red-green government, both proud and happy that we have finally found a new as well as aggregate solution, and cut over it as well as can rightly be called a gordish knot. I am also very pleased that the Government's proposal for a solution seems to receive broad support in Stortinget. The reform is important in the labour market, because we have legislation in place that not only in theory, but also in practice will treat female turnaround workers and male shiftworkers equally. This is done by introducing a proportionate compensation for inconvenient working hours for shift and rotational workers working at least every three Sundays. Workers in such schemes shall receive direct payoffs in terms of shorter working hours depending on how much Sunday and night work they actually work. We estimate that more than 30,000 workers will have shorter working hours. Most of these work in hospitals. Let me also extend a thank you to Professor Steinar Holden of the University of Oslo and his selection, who came up with important main features of the solution that we are offering today. With regard to the 70-year rule, it is difficult for the Government to ignore the clear advice of the social partners not to make changes now. We agree with the parties that the age limit should not be assessed independently of the pension reform. Therefore, we aim to return to the issue when work on changes in the age limits of the labour force is otherwise clarified in the context of the pension reform. I record that someone is asking for proposals to regulate the working time of so-called ‘specially independent’ workers. The Ministry has, as you know, had the question of investigation and general consultation. The hearing shows that this is a very complicated matter, which also divides the social partners. I believe that we should take the time to find a solution that we are safe on will respond to the needs of the labour market in the best possible way and that does not divide unnecessarily. As one understands, I am not sure that the proposals that have been at the hearing do so to a sufficient degree. I will therefore continue to work on the matter. As can also be seen from a number of media reviews recently, the Labour Inspectorate is actively supervising compliance with the current regulation in the meantime. There is good reason to believe that ‘abuse’ of today’s rules is as big a problem as the rules themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e327	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e330	Only a short post, more of the character of the explanation of vote. As I explained in my post, the Right promotes a separate proposal related to the theme shift/turnus, as shown in the setting on page 22. We should have liked to see that it was possible to vote for it as an alternative to Section 10-4, but since this is Odelstinget and not Stortinget, it is not possible. I just want to say that then we will have to vote against that paragraph, on the grounds that we have a proposal submitted to the Stortinget for voting there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e337	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 674]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e354	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e363	The Committee's position is unanimous and the Committee feels that this is a follow-up to the processes that have been initiated in the past. I'll just briefly mention three relationships. One is the issue of a further development of NOKUT to not only stand for control but also to be able to contribute to institutional development. In this context, the minority in the Committee, as it is the duty of an opposition, has stated that resources are also needed for this. But in the main view, that NOCUT must have greater flexibility, a greater leeway, we agree. We also agree that in its work, NOKUT has to distinguish between what is control and what is a function of assistance and advice. And so the ministry has put it up, and they've said that now they start with the first step. The Committee agrees with such an approach. The other relationship that has been raised is the subject of a debate that we're not going to do long now. It has taken place before this case, and will take place after it. It concerns the responsibility of the institutions for Norwegian as a specialised language. What we are doing here on the part of the Committee is that we are following up on what the Government has proposed. Again, the minority underlines that this will also require resources. Here the Progress Party has a special comment, but otherwise the Committee stands together. Otherwise, we take note of the fact that what we have previously stated in the Committee on the Inclusion of the Archaeological Museum in the University of Stavanger has been followed up in a legislative change. With these small comments, I present a unanimous vote and recommend the legislative changes proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e378	Today, the Stortinget deals with changes in the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Higher Education, and the case-rapporteur presented these changes in a good way. I would like to add a few brief comments to some changes. There was a great deal of tension associated with the Star Island Committee’s position ‘Set as a whole — a new structure in higher education’. The approach contained many controversial proposals, while discussing important aspects of Norway’s future structure in higher education. Norway is a long-distance country. Compared to our neighbouring countries, we have a widespread settlement, which should also be maintained through higher education institutions throughout the country. The draft law that we are discussing today proposes to organise the pooling of institutions. I am pleased that the department does not promote proposals for mandatory structural changes. However, I believe that we will see changes, mergers and cooperation between the institutions in the future. Institutions shall assess on their own initiative aggregations or other forms of cooperation. The law should therefore be flexible, so that good solutions do not stop. In the revised national budget, which is the subject of treatment by the United Kingdom, it is proposed to set up a sample to look at ways of achieving greater cooperation, division of labour and concentration at higher education institutions in Nesna, Bodø and Narvik. The aim is for us to have institutions in the Nordic countries that in the future meet the need for competence in the region. This is necessary in order for us in the north to get the best education where we live. NOCUT is an important body to ensure quality in education. Changes to the objectives and tasks of the sample are proposed. The proposals are the result of the follow-up to the external evaluation of the NOCUT undertaken by the Ministry of Knowledge in 2007. The purpose was to gain more knowledge about how NOCUT performs its statutory tasks. The changes we are adopting today are intended to make it easier for NOW to enter into a supplementary supervisory role and to focus more on quality development, as the evaluation committee's recommendations are based on. NOCUT shall be a small and unbureaucratic body, and the amendments proposed are in line with this. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur-general for the work he has done on these amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e393	The changes we are discussing today in the Law on Higher Education are not exactly of the controversial nature. As it looks, they will be unanimously adopted here today. However, I choose to take the floor to link a few comments to the matter. Firstly, we are pleased that the department does not follow the recommendation of the Starø Committee and is in favour of a required structural change in the UH sector. The Progress Party has more faith in a flexible piece of legislation that allows initiatives to co-operate and merge between institutions to come from below, from the institutions themselves, and not as a requirement from above. It also provides for the legalisation of the institutions' responsibilities in the Norwegian language. The Progress Party believes that the freedom to choose a language should be strengthened at all levels, both at school, in the media, in liberalised public enterprises and in public services. We are opposed to any form of coercion and regulation that is intended to oblige individuals to use a form of goal that is not voluntary. However, we support the proposal that institutions themselves be given responsibility for the maintenance and further development of Norwegian professional languages, based on individually adapted language strategies. At the same time, I would warn against a trend towards imposing a Norwegian duty on researchers and scientific personnel. In addition, if these are subject to the same target use requirements as the one we have in the public service, we will have a trend that is highly inhibiting in relation to internationalisation. We must not forget that Norwegian is a small language group. Norwegian language teaching materials are a good thing, but the importance that students or candidates are also able to acquire knowledge and not least professional terminology in languages other than Norwegian cannot be stressed strongly enough since we live in an increasingly globalized world. As a result of the evaluation of the activities of NOKUT, legislative changes are also introduced. NOCUT currently has an approval function for some tertiary education courses and they are to exercise control and supervision. In addition, the review of NOKUT pointed out that more attention needs to be paid to guidance on improvement and development. All these tasks are important for the quality development of institutions’ services. However, we must pay attention to the danger of over-management through law, control and supervision. We can quickly see that offers are becoming more and more standardised, and that diversity and the specificity of each institution can be harmful. In that case, it is not a desired development with the eyes of the Progress Party. Both the institutions and the NOCUT are entrusted with additional tasks through this treatment. The opposition has pointed out that new tasks should, of course, be followed up with resources so that the bodies concerned are able to perform these tasks. Here, the opposition and the position are distinguished in this matter. Government Parties believe that the new tasks of NOKUT should be covered within the resources of NOKUT already available. In the case of any increase in the resources of the institutions, reference is made to the annual budgets. This last is, of course, a matter of course, because it is through the budgetary procedure that the money is granted. But I'm a little scared about the approach the government parties have to this issue, and there's probably more of the institutions as well. It would make sense for government parties to join the opposition parties in the principle that new tasks are followed up with increased resources. This government, which will be remembered for a long time for its famous break, has not shown exactly that they will give particular priority to tertiary education. But from a government based on a fairy tale by Soria Moria, you can't expect anything more. It seems like the government parties relate to the fairy tale language and say to our universities and colleges: if you take it, you take it with you! But, of course, there are limits to what institutions can withstand before they also have an impact on the quality of the offer. If we're still going to stick to the fairy tale language, I just want to remind you that it's not possible to count the tallow of a treebow!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e413	I intend to initiate something less adventurous than the previous speeches ended! I'm not going to add many comments to the case, but clarify a couple of things that have been important, at least for the opposition parties. One is to say that the new tasks NOCUT gets, necessarily also have to be accompanied by resources. It is not possible for NOKUT in today’s financial situation to take resources from other tasks and over to the new ones. For example, it would. go at the expense of processing time, supervisory tasks and other things where NOKUT is already quite pressured, both on economics and on human resources. The second is that when something is added to a number of new tasks, which I see as fully agreeing with, and which are also reflected in the evaluation that has been carried out by several, it is important that particular one aspect of the evaluation is given priority: the evaluation points to the need for NOCUT to be more focused in its supervisory work. I think that's an important reminder, simply because today there are basically the same control procedures, regardless of whether you're evaluating a small subject area or a large university, and it's probably not quite effective. In this way, it must be clearly stated that it is necessary to be clearer and clearer in the supervisory work. There are many discussions that follow in the wake of the evaluation, especially with regard to the role of NOCUT in general. I feel that the evaluation gives a good answer to that, and that NOKUT is also well pleased with and also agreed with the new tasks to be given. However, I believe that in the discussion we have about the expansion of the number of universities, and about changes in institutional categories for more, it is important to remember one thing that may not always be so clear, namely that the criteria NOKUT sets are minimum standards, and that a very important task both for the ministry and for NOKUT is to make sure that the follow-up is good, so that what happens after, for example, is. changes in the category of institutions are that the quality continues to rise and does not decrease. Because in some cases it may seem that the NOCUT criteria are the maximum standards that make it possible to meet them well within the quality frameworks set. That is not always the case, and I think you have to be vigilant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e424	In doing so, the Government submits to the Stortinget proposals for changes to the Law on Higher Education. We propose amendments to the provisions of the law which deal with the objectives and tasks of the National Quality Education Body, NOCUT, which was established on 1 January 2003. The legislative proposal forms part of the follow-up by the Ministry to the external evaluation of the NOKUT carried out by the Ministry of Knowledge in 2007-2008. In the light of the recommendations of the evaluation committee, it is proposed, inter alia: changes to help provide NOKUT with greater flexibility and room for action in its supervisory work. The changes to the laws will also enable the work of NOKUT to be supported to a greater extent than at present by the quality development work of universities and higher education institutions, among others. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, requested. I fully agree with the representative that there is no need to interfere at a minimum level. You have to strive for more and more quality. The changes will provide a good basis for the further development of NOKUT, in line with the Government’s wishes, as a government independent management body with supervisory functions in the university and higher education sectors and in the vocational education sector. The legislative proposal presented here is the first step in the follow-up to the evaluation of NOKUT. The proposal is limited to dealing with the overall framework laid down in § 2-1 of the Law on Higher Education, which deals with the tasks and powers of NOKUT. The next step in the follow-up work will be to review and assess changes to the regulations dealing with the activities and tasks of NOKUT, in order to provide NOKUT with sufficient room for action in its supervisory and quality development work. So we're going to follow up this very carefully, also with thorough reviews of NOKUT's total problems. The legislative proposal itself does not impose any new tasks, and the Government sees, like the evaluation committee, that the changes have to be made initially and at present within the resources currently available. However, the Ministry will carry out a more detailed review of the resource situation and of the financial framework when reviewing the regulations dealing with the activities and tasks of NOKUT, and naturally come back to this in the ordinary budgetary procedures. Furthermore, amendments to the provisions of the Law on Examination, to the provisions on penalties for fraud and to amendments to the rules on appeals in relation to examinations of PhD candidates taking part in the PhD programme should be proposed. There is a legal uncertainty under the current law about candidates admitted to a doctoral programme can be said to be covered by the term ‘student’ in the Law on Higher Education, because in many cases PhD candidates are considered to be employees at the institution. To clarify this, the Ministry therefore proposes to change the term ‘student’ to ‘candidate’ so that the PhD candidates will be covered by those provisions. The position of the Star Island Committee, NOU 2008:3, Set up as a whole, recommends that efforts be made to bring today's universities and colleges together into eight to ten major institutions to meet different challenges and create larger and more robust units. The government considers it positive that universities and colleges cooperate or take initiatives to pool where appropriate, but does not consider it appropriate to take such a structural approach as recommended by the Star Island Committee. However, the Ministry is aware that several institutions themselves are considering merger initiatives. The Law on Higher Education does not provide for the procedure for such mergers, and some of the provisions on the Board of Directors appear to be of little use in such situations. Therefore, amendments to some provisions have been proposed to facilitate the management of any pooling of institutions. A clarification is proposed in the Act to clarify the possibility for the Ministry to extend the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of universities and higher education institutions. Such prolongation must, of course, be carried out in consultation with the relevant institutions and members of the Management Board. Universities and higher education institutions may have employed the principal and external director or elected the head of the board. It has been argued that a two-thirds majority of the board is necessary to decide on a change in the management model, and this is proposed in the legislative text. The amendment will make it clear that this type of organisational decision should be marked by predictability and should be broadly anchored. The Archaeological Museum in Stavanger has been integrated into the University of Stavanger from 1 January 2009, and the law is proposed to be amended to make this explicit. We have also put in place the concept of ‘university hospitals’. So a little bit about language policy. As an overall language policy instrument in research and higher education, the Government proposes to legislate that universities and colleges are responsible for the maintenance and further development of Norwegian professional languages, cf. the benchmarking message Objective and meaning. This will clarify the responsibilities of the institutions in this area. Several universities and higher education institutions have per Today, it is designed to develop its own language strategies. The language policy platform of the University and Higher Education Council has guidelines on which the institutions can draw. However, legal responsibility for Norwegian professional languages does not mean that it is only a question of promoting the highest possible use of Norwegian in all contexts. It is also important — of course — to develop the foreign-language competence, in particular the competence of English. The objective must be parallel linguistic, so that Norwegian is the language to be used initially, but that foreign languages are used where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e454	No one has asked for the word in reply. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e469	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e476	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I point (e) of the first paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following: (e) where he is a manager or head of, or is a member of, the board of directors or business meetings of, a company party to the proceedings, or an association, savings bank or foundation which is a party to the proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e531	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e540	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1087	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1096	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1103	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – the proposals No 1-4, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left – the proposals No. 5-7, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party - proposal No. 8, from Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right. Proposal No. 4, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to authorise the Labour Inspectorate to decide on the selection of the course organiser for the tasks of the Environment Protection Ombudsman and the Safety and Health Commissions if, on the basis of a reasoned quality assessment of the course content, the employer does not accept the organiser’s choice.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an approval system for the occupational health service that is industry-specific.’; Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that the protection officer be given the right to appropriate training.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of the age limit in the Act and that there are only ordinary conditions of dismissal which could lead to termination of employment.’ Proposal No. 8, from the right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for solutions to the recruitment challenges as well as the cost and administrative consequences of the proposal for gradual compensation for inconvenient working hours’.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: the second paragraph of Section 10-12 is replaced by the following: With the exception of the first, second and fourth subparagraphs of Section 10-2, the employer and the employee in a particularly independent position may agree in writing to derogate from the provisions of this Chapter.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1159	There is a vote on proposal No. 3 from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New Paragraphs 15-13(a) are replaced by the following: § 15-13 a Termination of employment due to age 1st@item: inlistbox The employment may be terminated at the age of 72. The lower age limit may be based on other grounds where the limit is factually justified and not disproportionate, as stated. Section 13-3, second paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox The employee is entitled to a written notice of departure. Retirement may be required not earlier than six months after the first day of the month after the notification to the employee. 3rd@item: inlistbox Before giving notice, the employer shall, as far as possible, call the employee to a conversation, unless the employee does not wish to do so himself. 4th@item: inlistbox The employee who wishes to leave has a corresponding period of notice of one month, however, so that the requirement for written access does not apply.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1405	Alternatively, between the setting of I § 15-7 and proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 15-7 shall be replaced by the following: Termination of retirement before the age of 72, which alone is due to the retirement of the employee under the Law on Social Security, shall not be considered to be justified in substance.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1421	It is votered over the cancellation of § 3-3, first sentence, § 3-3 new fifth paragraph and new § 15-13 a. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1434	The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 6-5 is added over the setting of the second sentence. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1447	The second sentence of Section 10-4 of the sixth paragraph and the second sentence of Section 15-11 of the third paragraph are cited. The right has announced that they will vote against it. The roll-call boards showed that 58 votes were cast and 25 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 10.57.29]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1458	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1463	So did I.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1468	Since there are several people who have voted incorrectly, the President proposes that we take that vote again. The right – as I said – has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1479	The third sentence of the second paragraph of Section 15-11 is quoted. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1492	The rest of the settings for I are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1502	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1511	The bill will be sent to Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1710	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1719	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-05-lower.ana.ud1920e1732	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
