ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e99	I want to draw attention to some fundamental aspects of social development with this interpellation. It's about the gradual increase in pay differentials over the last few years. Among other things, the reports of the Technical Calculations Committee confirm this. This is probably not due to the fact that the low-wage groups have received lower wages. At the same time, we know that top managers have experienced a strong wage increase in the last ten years, but since these represent a small proportion of the total labour force, the observed wage increase is likely to be driven by the wage growth of other high-wage groups on a more general basis. Increased pay differentials can be problematic from an overall social point of view because they may weaken the basic sense of trust and cohesion between the population, which proves to be crucial for social development in terms of crime, educational attainment, health and general well-being and quality of life. Increased wage differentials can be not least a challenge from a poverty point of view, as more people may feel that they are falling outside society by not being able to afford to participate in different activities in line with others. In other words, this is about fundamental social development and the fight against poverty. So what's the background for the increased pay gap? It cannot be ruled out that this could involve major fundamental international features related to globalisation and a greater degree of international division of labour. Firstly, a number of countries such as China, India and countries in the former Soviet bloc have recently opened up trade and foreign investment and have been integrated into the world economy. Richard Freeman at Harvard University estimates that this has doubled the workforce on the global labour market, from 1.5 billion to 3 billion workers. These countries have contributed little capital, so that in total there have become more workers compared to capital in the world. This will initially reduce wages and salaries. Secondly, many poor countries have been given more and more skilled labour. China and India train 1.2 million engineers and scientists every year. This is three times as much as 10 years ago, and as many as the United States, the EU and Japan train together in one year. Thirdly, developing countries are producing increasingly capital intensive products. According to the OECD, China passed the United States in 2004 as the world’s largest exporter of IT goods. It imports a good many of the most advanced parts of these computers, mobile phones and DVD players. But the idea of developing countries as commodity exporters must be nuanced. This means that trade increases competition and reduces wage levels also in capital intensive industries with highly skilled labour. It is not just customer telephone centres and simple data processing that can be outsourced to poor countries. Different forms of computer programming, medical diagnostics, industrial design, legal services, financial and business consultancy are now being carried out in China and other low-cost countries. New information technologies and the reduction of barriers to trade and investment make this possible. Research from the United States shows that, although technological change is likely to have contributed most, the reduction in trade unionism and increased immigration have also contributed to this development. The richest have become richer in Norway since the 1990s. In addition, low pay has lost relative to average income. We can't rule out that this is due to many of the same factors as in the United States. However, the growth in pay differentials in Norway and the Nordic countries has fortunately been significantly lower than in the United States. The Nordic model has, after all, proved to be robust in the face of increasing globalisation in the post-war period, despite the fact that the Nordic countries have been more open to trade and foreign investment than most other countries in the world, and well as open as the United States, if we ignore agricultural products. The Nordic model is inter alia: probably better than the United States system of ensuring good education for the whole population. In addition, Norway has continued to widen the pattern of moderation through centralised wage settlement. There is therefore much evidence that national institutions and legislation in the labour market and in the field of education still have a lot to say about the pay structure, and that national politicians continue to have a significant influence on economic development even in a globalised world. The Christian People's Party believes that the state has an important role to play in allocating the total gain to society in trade, so that the losers are compensated. The best possible training for the whole population ensuring the competence of workers for the future labour market, a sound safety network and the provision of further training and retraining for those who should lose their jobs, as well as labour market regulations encouraging employment, will be some of the areas where the State should continue to contribute. When you, like in the United States, lose your health insurance when you lose your job, it goes without saying that the individual's cost of dismissal is initially higher there than in Europe. It does say a lot about how important it is, and what the advantage is, that the state is responsible for health care. Will the Government consider measures to try to ensure that income disparities do not increase further in the time to come, in order to ensure a society that is still characterised by high trust and cohesion, where relative poverty does not increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e140	The representative Woie Duesund raises an important question. How should we continue to counteract increased wage differentials in Norway? Before I go into the many measures the government has put in this area, I'd like to say a little bit about where we are now. Differences in earnings in Norway are moderate compared with other countries. Norway is the country in the OECD region with the smallest pay gap. However, pay differentials have increased slightly in recent years. The increase has been similar to the average for OECD countries. I'm going to illustrate the pay gap with some numbers. According to the latest report of the Calculations Committee, the average salary in 2007 was about NOK 750000 for the employees who were among the 10 pst. with a maximum wage, approx. 223,000 for those who were among the 10 pst. with the lowest wage. Or, in another way, the highest-wage earners in 2007 averaged 3.4 times more than the lowest-wage average. In 1997, they made 2.8 times more. The labour market parties are responsible for determining wages and salaries. One of the most important tasks of wage formation is to distribute income from value creation between employees and owners and between different groups of employees. However, wage formation is also the main mechanism to help ensure consistency between supply and demand for different types of labour. Wage formation should also contribute to the use of labour where it has the highest socio-economic return. In Norway, wage formation is characterised by a high degree of coordination. This model is based on the recognition by the parties that a well-functioning wage-setting system helps to maintain high levels of participation in the labour market and low unemployment. At the same time, high levels of coordination contribute to the dampening of wage increases. According to the Holden Committee of 2000, on a strategy for employment and value added, the main cause of small wage differences in Norway is that we have a high degree of coordination in the determination of wages and salaries. Through income policy cooperation, the government will continue to contribute to good coordination in the preparation of wages and salaries. Multiple relationships can contribute to an increase in pay differentials. Key keywords are the development of labour market tightness, the development of business profitability, the development and spread of specific forms of remuneration, changes in the model of negotiation and changes in standards related to distribution and equality. The differences in earnings are also linked to differences in skills and productivity of individual workers. The representative Woie Duesund also draws attention to the importance of pay differentials as part of the fight against poverty. Ensuring the best possible job opportunities is the most important response to poverty. Although we are now in a recession, participation in employment in Norway is high and among the highest in the OECD region. Since wages and salaries are the main source of income for most households, high participation rates are positive from an allocation point of view. There seems to be a broad disintegration in the population of small wage differences. I think that's positive. Some claim that small wage differences have a negative impact on efficiency and value creation. Developments in Norway do not suggest this. In Norway, we have been able to combine even wage distribution with high growth and good adaptability. However, it is not surprising that wage differences increase somewhat in good economic times, as we had in the period 2003–08. In an upturn, more people will enter the labour market. At the same time, wages will increase more in some parts of the labour market than in others. In a recession, it's the other way around. It is therefore important to pursue an economic policy that mitigates the economic fluctuations. The extensive measures taken by the Government to remedy the effects of the international financial crisis, as well as to mitigate the increase in unemployment, will have good distributive effects. Increased pay differentials are primarily due to the fact that the salary has increased most for them with the highest wages. Both the report of the Technical Calculation Committee on Income Statements and the report of the Distribution Committee show that salaries for managers, and especially for senior executives in large enterprises, have increased significantly more than for other employees in the last decade. Bonus schemes and share and option gains have been very important drivers behind the trend in management pay. It is important that the wage development of a few leaders does not help undermine the economic equality that we want to promote. The government has implemented several measures against the strong wage trend we have seen in particular in listed companies. Changes have been made to the Share Act that the general meeting should establish any bonus arrangements for executives, any option arrangements. Where options are proposed in companies in which the State is the owner, the State shall vote no. The creation of the new State Financial Fund was subject to conditions limiting the remuneration and bonuses of bank managers. These measures help to counteract unjustified increases in managers’ remuneration. The government is concerned that all workers in Norway should have proper pay and working conditions. Measures aimed at social dumping are therefore important from a distribution point of view. Public disclosure has ensured acceptable wage and working conditions in industries where extensive social dumping has been demonstrated. With the proposal to introduce joint responsibility for pay, the Government is taking a step further in the fight against social dumping. I must admit that I am uncertain about what the Christian People's Party believes about pay differences. The representative Woie Duesund is concerned that salary differences are increasing. In the context of the treatment of the embankment on labour immigration for approx. One year ago – it was another time when I defended for the first time a case from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in Stortinget, even though it was a few days before I took over in the department – I was amazed that the Christian People's Party, Right, Left and Advance Party were concerned that our small pay gap would result in us not being able to recruit highly skilled workers from abroad. I quote from Innst. S. No 292 for 2007-2008: ‘These members indicate that the compressed pay structure in Norway makes the country less attractive to the well-trained. These members believe that the Government must take this issue seriously if Norway is to maintain and further develop the welfare state to become a knowledge nation in the future.’ This suggests that the interpellant Woie Duesund disagrees with the party she represents. Let me conclude by summarizing that the Government is taking the development towards increasing pay differentials in great seriousness. I have mentioned several measures implemented by the Government, including: measures to mitigate an unimpeded wage growth and measures to combat social dumping at the other end of the wage scale. Of course, tax policy is also important both for those with low incomes and for those with high incomes. Active labour market policies support and help unemployed people into work. The theme we are discussing here today therefore has many sides, and it is only a broad approach that can contribute to desired development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e175	I'm going to come back and answer about this comment, which is taken a little bit out of context. I would also like to thank the Council of State for also seeing that the issue of increased pay differentials is closely linked to the fight against poverty. Increased pay differentials can cause more people to feel that one falls outside society, that one cannot afford to participate in the different activities in line with others. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party made a pre-election impression that poverty could be solved easily, it was just a matter of will. When Jens Stoltenberg four years ago joined the national assembly of the Workers' Party, he spent a lot of time stressing that the Workers' Party wanted to combat poverty and social inequalities that "are getting stuck," as he said. He framed several examples of this and added the following: ‘Why is that so? Some of this is due to a wild policy from the right. This is easy to do with. It is only to change government.» But it's obviously not that simple. According to the Central Statistical Bureau, the total number of poor people was 10,000 only in the first year of the Red-Green Government. The Christian People's Party has never lowered the fact that the fight against poverty is difficult, but we do not give up. We will fight social disparities by including more in the labour market, introducing equal pay pots for women, strengthening social housing and care and targeting children with economically disadvantaged parents. Unfortunately, the new batch program of the working party is less ambitious on its part than it was when the lot was put in opposition. While the Labour Party four years ago adopted a programme which stated that no one should be poor in Norway, it is now just said that the Labour Party will fight poverty. Can this be interpreted differently from the fact that the Workers' Party is now reducing the ambitions of the fight against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e191	I have to be allowed to replicate: No, the comment I referred to is not taken out of context, it's put in the right context -- the right context that shows that we think it's good for a society to have small pay differentials. We cannot say when we talk about the desired immigration of skilled workers at many levels of work, that we find it a problem that the pay gap is too small, if we believe that there is a social problem that the pay gap is too large. And that's exactly what I'm trying to get there. It is the context of all the policies we pursue that need to be strengthened if we are to be able to maintain the profile that we want in Norway, that the leadership wages are not cut off, and that no one is subjected to social dumping — nor are people who come to us from other countries to work. The first concrete action against wage developments in leadership has been undertaken by this government — and it works, because no new option agreements are concluded. We put social dumping measures at the other end of the pay scale – and it works, because we see that we reveal cases of social dumping because we have put in instruments to reveal it. So it's just such a relationship. So to the more general link to poverty. The representative Woie Duesund and I agree that employment is the most important issue in terms of poverty. When it is referred to the opposition leader Stoltenberg said four years ago, I would say that he was absolutely right that it was a wild policy. The previous government did not help the unemployed in relation to living. No, they cut the daily allowance for people who were unemployed. They took away the holiday money base for people who were unemployed. They decided to weaken the employment protection of workers, which weakens the position of the employee in the labour market and therefore also pressures wage conditions. Or in other areas: the measures needed to bring about greater equality in society, including: by weakening the position of trustees. But what has this government done? Let me just mention two things with the short speaking time I have left: the indicative social assistance rates have increased more than the price rise twice during this period. The representative Woie Duesund and I often discuss Nav. Perhaps the most important thing is that now there are over 5,000 people on the qualification programme. A little over a year ago, on 1 January last year, there was no one on the qualification programme. There are people who have lived for too long on short-term social assistance and never received any offer, who now receive a fixed benefit of twice the basic amount and who, not least, undertake to participate in a programme that will gradually help them to return to the labour market. It is the kind of action that works against poverty. It is not just that this government will have such measures, we are putting such measures into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e200	It is commendable for the representative Woie Duesund to address the issue of increased pay differentials, which the interpellation is about. Clearly, as long as we live in a society where wages are determined by negotiation, there is a market, either directly between employers and employees or between organisations, we will have differences. The question is how many differences we think it is desirable to have. The Council of State referred to the remark that the Christian People's Party has made in the past, which reflects a view of our social model that we in the Labour Party are fighting for, that is, to have the lowest possible wage differences, but which has the opposite ideological aspect in that pay should be a factor that businesses should freely use to attract or dispose of labour. We believe that market power must be limited. Let's do that, for example. through the Working Environment Act, on which the Council of State was concerned in connection with temporary employment. If you look at which groups are primarily affected by the negative aspects of temporary employment, for which the Christian People's Party has agreed, you will see that it is precisely the groups that are also struggling with pay. You are in a much worse negotiating position when it comes to getting paid. We believe that an organised working life is the best way to limit market power in the labour market. If we have collective agreements that are centrally negotiated with a trade union movement, we have collective agreements and wage formation that also reflect the needs of society, because they are taken into account. For example, if you change to the model that you are looking at, you're going to change to the model that you're looking at. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has previously mentioned in its programmes, which want everything to be decided preferably in direct negotiations within each company, and will immediately be subject to much greater differences. You don't get the social perspective in the formation of wages, you just get the needs of businesses in the formation of wages. In today's tariff system you have a mix of both, which I think is healthy, and which has been well managed by the social partners. It's not in the areas covered by collective agreements, we have the biggest problems with increasing wage differences. It's outside the tariff system we have the biggest problems. Then there is also a public role as an employer. At both state, municipal and county level, we have a role for politicians. It is we, as politicians, who are going to put up a human resources policy and thus what policy we want for the formation of wages. You can then choose between demanding an increase in local wage formation, i.e. having local negotiations on wage making, or you can stick to a model that goes into central negotiations. We know that there's a big difference here, and here there's a different view between different political directions of it. Then there's another perspective I want to mention, and that's how the government like the employer treats groups that we can call low pay groups – bus drivers, cleaning workers, help nurses, etc. We see in the municipality of Bergen, where the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have the majority, that there is a raw policy of outsourcing services. We see it in the district of Hordaland, which has the same coalition as the governing party, where bus drivers have to pay for competitive outsourcing, because we know that when bus companies compete, the pay and working conditions and pension schemes are the competitive factor. Here is the Christian People's Party to squander low pay groups, along with their friends in the Right and Advance Party. I think it is very good that the representative Woie Duesund addresses this issue of debate here in Stortinget, but I lack some reflection on the party's own policies and positions on these issues, as I have pointed out, and as the Council of State has also shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e219	There are considerable wage differences in Norway. There are also differences in living standards and in the level of pensions. At first, I want to stress that not all people are concerned with working as much as possible, serving as much as possible, or collecting as much material things as possible. I have great respect for people who choose a different life from the majority. For some, it's home when the children are small, a very important choice, which makes the family's total income very low for years. Others choose to work part-time, take a rest year or do other things that give them low income. But this is self-selected and almost unproblematic for the individual. Low income can be tackled over shorter periods. Living with low incomes over a long period of time drains on the economy and other resources — and increases the risk of poverty. Poverty is seen as a form of social exclusion, with lack of access to material goods consumption and lack of participation in activities. On 20 November 2007, Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said to NTB: ‘I think there will be poverty again in Norway even when we come to the 2009 Grand Prix. But I really believe that the figures will show that there is less poverty in Norway than when we started in 2005. Recently we realized that it has become more than 10 pst. more homeless since the Government's accession, despite the Government's intention of abolishing homelessness, cf. Action plan against poverty, annex to St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. Homelessness is the ultimate proof of poverty and should not occur in a country like Norway. Here the government has really failed those who have the most difficult. What about those who seem to be doing well, but who seem to have the bills under control is an eternal struggle? There's a lot of people who feel like they're part of this group. The leader of the Progress Party has focused a lot on the low-paid lately. Both in her 1st May speech and in her national meeting speech, she called for an increase in the level of the lowpaid. This focus has also been followed up by a proposal for a representative to be discussed in this Chamber on 16 June. This proposal gives all parties an opportunity to lift a fairly large group of people who do an important job every day. Many of them are low-paid women, and they work in the public sector. I remember working on the social assistance rates in our municipality a few years ago. We then put up a calculation of how much a newly trained nurse earned and compared it to how much she paid when it came to student loans, mortgages and other common expenses, which everyone has. What we found at the time was that a newly-trained nurse with a student loan and a mortgage set up again with less to route by per. month than an average social welfare beneficiary in our municipality. I remember that as local politicians, we were quite startled by what we found. The progress party believes that it is now time to do more than talk. The government has talked about involuntary part-time and low-paid, which are mostly women. I am using this opportunity to invite the parties to do more than talk, and to support the proposals of the Progress Party when it is being discussed, on 16 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e243	It was very nice what was said at the end of the post of the representative from the Progress Party. I want to talk for myself about the cash support. In the case of social housing, which was mentioned as a progressive party issue: it is not exactly known that the Progress Party has some credibility in this area – the Progress Party has never really mentioned or spent time talking about social housing. It's an SV case, and both the Workers' Party and the Center Party are occupied with it. The red-green government will give priority to social housing. It was SV who first proposed to set up a sample to deal with pay differentials, and many important conclusions have been drawn. It was important to look at what strengthens the pay distribution among the Norwegian population, and what weakens it. The conclusions were several. I hear that the representative of the Christian People's Party does not mention what we may think is important, among other things. the cash support. It was clearly concluded that the cash support contributes to increased salary differences. The committee thought it should be phased out gradually. It's Swedish policy – and a lot of government policy. The alternative to cash support will be to have a free-of-charge principle for kindergartens in the long term. It's a policy for which SV also burns. In addition, the sample points out that tax change is very important, that low-wage people will receive low taxes, and that high-wage people will receive high taxes – which are Swedish policies, and will continue to be so. We also see that part of the calls and main lines from the sample in many ways are SV policies. To State Councillor Andersen: The payroll stop is very good. We'll follow that up. The working party, the Centre Party and SV are united against social dumping, are for a more even distribution in general and for the liquidation of cash support for good. This focus is very positive. Let's not forget that!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e256	The representative Woie Duesund notes that the pay gap has increased in recent years. She points to several relationships in her interpellation. I'll take some of them. Several researchers point out that wage differences are increasing in good times, which the Council of State was also aware of in its response to the representative Woie Duesund. A report shows, among other things: the tighter the labour market, the greater the spread of wages. Of course, we have people with top wages in Norway, even though pay differentials are not as high as in some other countries. Several point out that large differences within the same enterprise or enterprise may affect motivation and job satisfaction. It is rather doubtful whether it is good that someone goes over time and feels that they are underpaid. I think that's a reasonable consensus. The average difference between women and men is about 15 pst. in Norway. The main reason for this is the sex-shared labour market. The female-dominated professions come out worse than the man-dominated professions. It may seem that the pay gap is increasing in the infant’s parental phase. Therefore, it is very important to have flexibility in terms of leave. In many contexts, the differences will probably depend more on who is on the outside of the labour market and who is on the inside of the labour market. This is probably a more fundamental part of the fight against poverty. What will be adopted in this Chamber tomorrow in order to achieve a greater level of equal pay in the labour market is positive. The left wants everyone – whether male or female – to have the opportunity to go to the industries they want. However, I see that it is a problem that traditional women's girls have a low wage trend, and that it is important that they strive for gender balance in the professions. We find the lowest income groups among classic women's girls, such as help nurses, maids, etc. Wage developments are low. However, by appreciating the competence of traditional women's organisations and increasing the level of education, it is natural that income should be increased. I think care work is the future winner in the labour market. We must therefore strive to get full - time jobs as far as possible and fewer part - time jobs. We must eliminate involuntary part-time. That's what we have to live to do. It's also part of what I call the big equal pay match in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e267	Let me first give praise to Woie Duesund for her addressing a very important topic. But when I heard her introduction, I became a little uncertain about what the Christian People's Party really wants – what is the goal of taking up such an interpellation? I would like to believe that there is no consolation for the low-paid in Norway either that the left-wing representative Skkelstad believes that they will be the wage earners in the future, as he said. I don't think that's any good consolation. If we are to approach this problem – and we are to – we need to approach it on more levels. First of all, we have to approach it from a macro point of view – and we have to approach it from a micro point of view, where we go into the individual and household levels. Let's start at the macro level. We know that the pay gap has increased between the groups. The 10 pst. The richest in Norway has run from the rest of the population, and the 10 pst. The poorest in Norway has slowed down. These are the actual ratios. We know this. This has been demonstrated and documented by the Distribution Committee. We also know the reason for that. That's what's interesting. No one comes up with the reason for this, even though the Distribution Committee has told us what this is all about. This is due, inter alia, to: – and mainly – the fact that the richest get a greater share of their income from financial assets. The reason is that financial income has increased – i.e. dividends on shares and returns on other capital. The proportion of the population with such high incomes has run from the rest of the population. And what do we do with that? Should we let them run, or can we do anything about it? Obviously, we can do something about this. This has to do with taxing. This has to do with our tax system – how we tax capital income. The answer is that if we want to do something about it, we have to look at the tax system, look at how it works in relation to different types of income and especially in relation to income. So the answer is there. One can do something if one wants to, and if one thinks this is important. If we go into micro-levels, on individuals and households, we see, for example, that the income differences between men and women are increasing. Women serve only approx. 85 pst. of what men serve. Obviously, you can't do anything about this in your tariff arrangements. This obviously does not allow the negotiation system to catch up and do anything about it. That is why we have this proposal for an equal pay pot, which this committee is proposing. Then the question is, do we think it's right to intervene in the collective bargaining with an equal pay pot? I think it's necessary. I am absolutely convinced that this is necessary. If we want to even out the pay gap between men and women, we have to intervene in the collective bargaining with an equal pay pot, because this system doesn't catch it up on its own. We can talk great about collective bargaining – and it is true that we are holding the right to negotiate, but at the same time we obviously also have to do something to catch unfair and unfair pay differences between women and men. Then we have the third level, the 10 pst. Poorest in this country. What do they live by? Where did they get their income? It's not employee income, it's mostly transfers. So, they're dependent on transfers from the government. The 10 pst. Poorest sheep over 60 pst. of its receipts from transfers. The thing is, it's us that decides the transfers. We're the ones who set the limits for the transfers. We're the ones who essentially control the income level of the 10 pst. Poorest in this country. So the answer is in our hands – if we want to, and if we think it's important. That's what I expected the Christian People's Party to go into this debate -- not only a description of the unpleasant and the evil, but also of what we can do with it. If we want to do something for the 10 pst. Poorest, we have to do something about the transfers. And then we're talking about the social security system, etc. We have to raise the level of these transfers beyond what we've already done – because we've done a lot these last four years. We have lifted it strongly – relatively strongly, everything is relative in terms of economics. But there's more to it than 60 pst. of the revenue of the 10 pst. the poorest comes from transfers. So there's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e281	A West-Agder company that makes contrast fluids has said several times that it is difficult to recruit top people because of relatively low top wages in Norway. That was a little bit of the background because we were in that comment. The Christian People's Party wants to smooth out and it's good that there are no big differences, after all, in Norway. So to Per Rune Henriksen, who is calling for the Christian People's Party's policy. I have to say that we are busy fighting poverty both at home and outside. I want to quote from one post – both to the representative Henriksen and to the representative from SV. I quote: ‘We will fight social disparities by including more people in the labour market, by introducing equal pay pots for women, by strengthening social housing and care and by targeting children with economically disadvantaged parents.’ I think we all need to give a much stronger priority to homeless and drug addicts in the future. That's some of the answer. So to the alternate from SV, who was concerned that the cash support had to go away. There's nothing new. It is also not new that the Christian People's Party is going to stand firm on the cash support, because we believe that it is about freedom of choice and the ability to determine its own everyday life. At the same time, we are for it to be free core time. I am pleased that the representative from the Left so strongly marked the women's churches and involuntary part-time work. It's important in a society that's getting two-way between those who have jobs and those who don't have jobs. Then to the representative of Reikvam. I'm glad that neither he nor anyone in this debate has driven with slight rhetoric, as we witnessed in the previous election campaign, where SV's leader said it was really just about political will. I thank you for not doing so. Finally, I would like to quote from a letter that I received not so long ago. It says: ‘You have to react to wrong. Poverty does not pay – neither for the poor nor for the rich.’ I hope we can agree on that. With this, I thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e306	I'm glad that the representative Woie Duesund now kind of went into the Christian People's Party's own formulation of the big message that I referred to, because it shows some of the dilemma. If you really think there should be small pay differentials in Norway, it must apply to all policy areas. And when the Christian People's Party in that context was concerned about the compressed pay structure, there's one way to say it. But it really says there's a problem that there's too little difference between people -- while the problem here is the opposite. I have to say that I like today's variant much better. I don't doubt the representative's commitment to that kind of question – about poverty in general and big differences in pay in particular. But it is important that it also gets an impact on the Party's documents and in actual policy. When it comes to exactly the payroll part of the big question we are talking about here, it's also about having a distribution policy in Norway by having a large public sector. When, for example, introducing the maximum rate in kindergartens is also a question of distribution – in the case of kindergartens. It's a distribution question, because it means most to those who have at least to pay a kindergarten space with. And that's the continuous thought that must be at the root of it. But with regard to the payroll part of the question that was the starting point of the interpellation, there are many in Norway on the leadership pay side who have been talking about a worrying development for many years, but this government is the first to do anything about it. And not only that: now the policy that the Government has implemented through its active ownership is actually demanded by other private companies as a model for how to get control of wage developments – and at the other end of the scale: social dumping. If we're going to do something about social dumping, I've mentioned some tools now. We have presented two action plans against social dumping. A central point here is that of employees, i.e. the ability of the trustees to have access to the company. A great deal of what is revealed about the terrible conditions of work and pay, is just the trusted ones, the others, at the workplace who discover. And then we need supervision that can take action against it. That is why we have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate in order to follow up. In this way, we are able to build up the whole spectrum of instruments that are moving towards addressing the challenges that lie there. It's not just about having political will; it's also about having political ability. And here, concrete measures have been put in place on ongoing bonds, both against galloping leadership wage developments and against social dumping. We're going to continue that line, and I'm glad that Woie Duesund's interpellation indicates that we agree to continue that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e317	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e333	The genus shall follow the course of the genus, called in a well-known song. This is true in Stortinget, how many new faces will be found on the benches when a new one comes together for the autumn. This is the case in family life, and it is the case in the workplace. The successful inclusion of ever-increasing coal in working life is a prerequisite for both value creation and value distribution. In good times — with which we have been blessed through most of this ageing period — perhaps not the entry of young people into working life has been what has occupied governments and magnificence the most. Employment has been in need of new recruitment, and competition has in many cases been harder between employers on new talents than among young jobseekers on current jobs. But it's turned heavily on its head in the last year. When new recruitment stops, the threshold for a permanent employment relationship for young jobseekers is significantly higher. We see this clearly in employment statistics. Since job seekers usually do not have day-to-day pay rights, AKU figures are likely to give a better picture of youth unemployment than Nav’s statistics on registered unemployed persons. The AKU figures for the first quarter of this year say that just over 30,000 between 15 and 24 years, almost 9 pst. by the labour force of this age group, reported as unemployed. At the same time, the Nav figures, which are probably under-reporting youth unemployment, show that no other age group has had a stronger rate of unemployment in the last year than the 20–24 age group and 25–29. At the same time, we know that in the case of well-founded unemployment prospects in the rest of 2009 and into 2010, there is a long way between the optimists. The main picture is that the forecasters suffer from varying degrees of significant pessimism. It is estimated that a weak labour market for young people will be even weaker in the coming months and years. While unemployment is rising strongly in Norway, we are still expected to have Europe’s lowest unemployment in the coming years – and even if the Government is to be silent about new measures to combat unemployment. This also means that youth unemployment will be lower in Norway than in many other countries. But it is part of the picture to have OECD countries have as high a proportion of young people unemployed as Norway. So given the starting point we actually have, there's no reason to settle down on the situation. I am quite sure that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will use time in his reply to me to talk about the so-called action guarantee for young people between 20 and 24 years of age, which was introduced into the State budget for 2009. It implies that young people of this age group registered as job seekers who have been without a job for at least six months are guaranteed a labour market measure. Of course, such a guarantee is positive. I am more than likely to be an opposition politician who commends the Council of State, Dag Terje Andersen, if this guarantee leads to the fact that young people actually establish a lasting relationship with the world of work – that is, that the threshold into a normal add-on relationship is lower. We are, I hope, agree that it is not the labour market measure that is the goal – the aim is to strengthen the transition to ordinary work and to counteract a two-fold division of the labour market between established winners and young losers that will be left when the path to the labour market is drawn up. When the Council of State has been told how well it is with this guarantee of measures, I hope that he can also say something about other instruments to facilitate the access to the labour market for young first-time jobseekers. I know that there are relevant instruments that fall under the responsibility of other government councils. State Councillor Andersen already has a more than large enough responsibility, and I have no intention of suggesting that he extends further into the government apparatus. That's why I'm going to ask you two different questions: Firstly, and perhaps most importantly, is the Council satisfied with the options already available to Nav to combat increasing youth unemployment, or is it appropriate to take new measures? Secondly, the Council of State believes that some measures to limit youth unemployment — which is outside the remit of the Council of State — such as: increased apprenticeship grants, reduced employers’ fees for apprentices and increased capacity both in public and private places of study can have a visible and positive impact on youth unemployment? The reason why I ask that question is that there are measures that, not least the Christian People's Party, have been engaged in strengthening the labour market situation that we are currently in. Yes, the apprenticeship grant has increased, but over time the cost of vocational training has increased more than the grant. Yes, study capacity has increased to meet increased inflows, but there has been no strong will, to put it nicely, to strengthen the capacity of private educational institutions. When it comes to reducing the employer’s fee for apprentices, we are probably on the ‘tax return for the rich’ rhetoric of the government parties. So I'm not asking about the concrete plans to do anything in these fields, it has to be almost other government councils answer for. But I ask you, does the Council of State think that more of these measures could also have a positive effect in strengthening young people in the face of today's and tomorrow's labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e365	First, I would like to say that I think it is good that we can discuss a topic like this with so many young people present in the Chamber – not on the representative benches perhaps, but more at the gallery – because it is a very important issue the representative Woie Duesund addresses, linked to young jobseekers and their opportunities in the labour market. This is the relationship I'm concerned about, and that's central to the government's policy. The weakening of the Norwegian and international economies, as the interpellant points out, leads to more challenging situations for many young people. Young people at work are experienced in their short years of service and are particularly vulnerable to recessions. Unemployment is increasing in all age groups, but most among young people. Nearly one out of three unemployed people is between 20 and 29 years of age. There are over twice as many men as women who are unemployed. However, unemployment rates are low among young people in Norway compared to most other countries in Europe. The February data from Eurostat show that only the Netherlands has a lower unemployment rate among young people. Although the unemployment rate for young people is high compared with other age groups, job seekers in this age group have shorter periods of unemployment and a lower proportion of long-term unemployed than for all unemployed. Most young people are therefore at low risk of staying out of work for longer periods of time. Interpellant claims that the proportion of young people unemployed in Norway is among the highest in Europe. Figures from the same Eurostat show that for Norway persons under the age of 25 are 39 pst. of the unemployed, while the number is 23 pst. for the whole of the European However, figures for Norway are not significantly different from those for Denmark and Sweden. The Netherlands has a slightly lower share, even with low total leave. The higher proportion of young people unemployed in Norway than in many other countries must be seen in view of the particularly low level of unemployment among other age groups in Norway. In that case, the proportion of young people is relatively high. The representative Woie Duesund is concerned that the threshold of entry into work is increasing for young people. If that's right, this will be important to counteract. In an ageing labour force situation, in addition to low labour force growth, the opportunities for young people in the labour market should be good in the longer term. My understanding of the increase in unemployment is therefore that it is a cyclical phenomenon. The government's strong counter-cyclical policy is therefore our main contribution to relieving the increasing unemployment. High demand also offers more jobs for young people. In addition, more targeted action will be taken to increase the number of places of study. Many will be motivated for more education when the option is leave. The government also has a wide range of targeted instruments targeting young people who fall outside work and school. Examples of such measures are the right to primary and secondary education, the qualification programme and the introduction system for immigrants. In the field of labour market policy, we have the follow-up guarantee mentioned by the representative, for all unemployed people aged between 20 and 24, and from 2009 a guarantee of action was introduced to ensure the provision of labour market measures for that age group, if there has been a continuous unemployment for more than six months. The inter-pellant points out that the action guarantee for 20-24 year-olds is hardly suitable as a key strategy to counteract development. I can agree with that. This does not mean, however, that the guarantee is irrelevant. The Youth Guarantee shall prevent long-term unemployment and inactivity among young people at the beginning of their professional career. For young people between the ages of 20 and 24 who are registered at Nav, this guarantees a special follow-up from Nav. The follow-up shall motivate active job search and participation in actions if the person does not come to work. Experience with the follow-up guarantee for young people aged 20 to 24 shows that parts of the youth group may be difficult to motivate for school or action. Some of the young people aged 20 to 24 who fall out of work and school have complex problems. Some have problems with health, some with social networks, and some with unhealthy lifestyles, such as: drug abuse. Some also have problems with backgrounds to family problems or crime. Furthermore, this group is characterised by a high proportion who have not completed secondary education. Norway has a high drop-out rate in secondary schools. In addition, young people with a non-Western background are more than three times as likely to drop out of school than young people with no immigrant background. Education contributes consistently to a more lasting relationship with the labour market. The government has therefore increased its efforts to get more young people to complete secondary education. An important purpose of the Government’s work on youth is to ensure a comprehensive public effort so that all can be achieved. The government is in the process of establishing better cooperation and coordination between the relevant agencies in order to strengthen the impact of the various schemes we are implementing. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has a cooperation agreement with KS in the field of training. The central agreement provides the basis for territorial agreements and local cooperation. These agreements include, inter alia: follow-up of youth and training, real skills assessment and career guidance. A goal of this work is to ensure that young people who fall outside school and work are caught early and that they are followed up as necessary in order to complete training and training courses, including, where appropriate, adapting labour market measures to help people get into working life. The interpellant picks up the lay-off and dismissal of apprentices. It's very unfortunate for apprentices to have their education interrupted. The situation of these apprentices is a common concern of state authorities, county councils and social partners. From a relatively strong accumulation of lay-offs earlier in winter, which also hit apprentices, lay-offs and lay-offs of apprentices have fallen somewhat in May. It is important that these are helped in other enterprises, so that the education can be completed. Work practices and labour market training may be relevant instruments by Nav. In some counties, this is put in a targeted system with agreements on apprenticeship places in the after-school area, for example. in public activities. Young people are on their way from school to work. This is a vulnerable period, where it is important to have good public support for those who need it. Young jobseekers also represent a significant resource in working life, which is important to take care of, as they will contribute to production in the best interests of themselves and society for many years. The government’s response to the financial crisis and the economic crisis, together with specific measures aimed at young people who have problems in their working life, are therefore all contributing to countering the adverse effects of the increased unemployment we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e401	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that he takes seriously the problem of young people not getting to work. The whole life situation is changing as the threshold enters into a lasting employment continues to rise. It's hard for everyone, but I think it's extra bad for those who never get to show what they're doing. Only a few years ago, employers stood in the classroom and tried to recruit young people and promised them permanent work as soon as they finished their education. It's not like that today. Without acquired rights, the future looks dark. One can get into a vicious spiral of pessimism and disgust. The Councils of State indicated that Norway has lower leave than other countries. For young people, it is rather comforting that it is worse in other countries in Europe. It also means that it is not easy to get a job outside the country, which young people often seem to be exciting and instructive. How are we going to give the young optimists back? How are we to avoid that there will be a two-way division of the labour market? Temporary employment shall not be a general rule in the workplace. Fixed working conditions must be normal. But at a stage when young people are struggling to get in touch with the world of work, especially in the difficult situation we are in now, there may be reason to think a little differently within a clearer framework and of course in cooperation with Nav. Would it have been possible to make it easier for employers to hire young people on a temporary basis where unemployment is the option? Had it not given the young people a positive signal that they are wanted, so that they gained relevant work experience and thus believe in themselves and the future? In bad times, it turns out that the first companies get rid of are the apprentices. To counteract this, the Christian People's Party has increased the grant, so that young people of the most vulnerable age will not fall out of high school. The forecasts show that if the drop-out continues, almost every four persons of working age will only have primary schools in 2030. Education is essential for getting a job. This is why more places of study are good. In this context, I lack a good explanation as to why this does not apply to private schools and colleges. I look forward to a constructive response and debate on what we can do to lower the threshold for young people entering permanent work. These include: on the future of all young people today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e414	It is true, as the representative has pointed out, that one of the most important means of ensuring that people complete their education and training, which provides a much safer basis for being able to stay in the labour market, is the apprenticeship allowance for those taking vocational training. But that's not what the representative said – I think it was in that context – that the government is still in the mouse. One example is that in the package of measures presented in January, we increased the apprenticeship allowance by NOK 4 800 per year. place, a grant that reaches 38 000 apprentices in Norway, precisely because we are dedicated to doing what the representative says. So I think it's pretty interesting that the representative now says, Wouldn't it have been better to make it easier to hire young people temporarily? I think that's very interesting given the debate we had before this debate, because then we talked about greater differences in the world of work. That proposal was one of the proposals that the previous government had adopted, but that we stopped. It was also exactly the same proposal that led to the social uprising in the suburbs of Paris in 2006. It is precisely an attack on the employment security of young people, which gives rise to, in particular, greater pay differences, on which the representative was involved in the previous round and precarious employment. And what should a youth say to his bank if they're going to establish themselves for the first time with an apartment and come to the bank and want to borrow money, and the bank asks, do you have a regular job? No, I don't have a permanent job. I have a temporary job. That is why this is probably an example, in the course of the previous debate, of the fact that if we are to build a serious working life that is safe for young people as well, it is precisely the type of proposal that can help to weaken the place of young people in the world of work and social security. It is precisely what will undermine the long-term distribution policy we discussed in the previous round, and not least a serious working life that is the best starting point for young people to succeed in the labour market. I agree with the representative Woie Duesund that there is no comfort to an unemployed youth in Norway that there are many more unemployed young people in other countries. However, there is still a signal that when we have a number of instruments they do not have in other countries, and get better results than in other countries, it turns out that the instruments work. Then we're going to continue the course that makes us the country that has low leave even among young people. So we're going to go in to get even lower youth leave, for example. using the measures we have put in place, which we now see are starting to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e425	I have to say, I reacted when the representative Woie Duesund almost produced it as if we wanted to have low leave in Norway and the lowest one in Europe no matter what the government did or did not – if we set the mouse still and did nothing more, we would still have low leave. It can give the impression that the crisis we have is not affecting Norway. But we have to be prepared for increased unemployment in Norway. The present crisis of the world economy is deep and absolutely fundamental. The government has therefore implemented the strongest crisis measures in Europe – at least in Europe in relation to our economy – to keep unemployment down. When unemployment is low in Norway, it is also an expression of the policy pursued. We have low leave in Norway. After the government took over in 2005 and until the financial crisis, we halved the unemployment, from a relatively low level in Europe to what must be said to be full employment. But there are no forces of nature that lead to this. This is because we have had a high level of care for the unemployed. We've led an active policy to get people to work, and not put the economy at risk. Youth unemployment is a special topic, for youth unemployment has some aspects that need to be addressed specifically in relation to other vacancies. We have to avoid losing people. If you first enter a long-term career as a job vacancy, it's a lot harder to get out of it. For young people, it is even more difficult than for others. This is why special measures are important for young people. The youth guarantees we have now adopted — we had one in the 1990s — are effective measures. These are the measures which, among other things: As a result, we have the lowest youth unemployment rate — or Norway has the lowest level of youth unemployment. It's a lean comfort maybe, but that's what the council says, an indication that we're on the right track. In 2006, the Institute for Social Research produced a report on the youth guarantee we had from 1995 to 1998, where they say: ‘We find that reinforced action contributed to increased participation in labour market measures and to a faster transition from unemployment to work.’ We clearly agree here that the goal is not to get young people into action, but the goal is to get them to work. But action is the way to work. I have participated in a working group at the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Conference which has looked at work and well-being, especially in youth unemployment. What we see is that there are great variations in Europe in this area, and there are also great variations within our part of Europe in the level of youth unemployment. It has to do with social models, and it has to do with education systems. But what is common is that the unemployment rate among young people is much higher than among adults. We see that unemployment is lowest in the regulated labour markets – that is, where we have a good feature of both legislation and contract work that regulates the conditions of the labour market. I will come to that a little later in a comment on some of what the representative Woie Duesund would recommend. The recommendations we make from our working group are precisely that countries should put in place labour market measures aimed specifically at young people, such as the Norwegian Youth Guarantee. We're looking at education systems. It is particularly important that we have good cooperation and close contact between schools and work, not just one week in the 9th grade, but that there is close contact to prepare young people for work. We also need to look at this with drop-outs – that is, young people dropping out of high school. If we look at the recommendations made by the representative Woie Duesund on temporary employment, it is to say that we have research and studies that show that it is only 20 pst. by temporary staff who continue to work on a permanent basis. The rest is spent in a limbo where you have lower rights, lower wages and poorer training. It's a problem not only for the people involved, but also for those communities that have a very large element of temporary employment. This is no help at all. The lower employer’s fee is tried by some countries. I would like to remind you that we had a lower employer's fee for them over 65 years old, it was well, something we terminated in connection with the IA agreement, because it had no demonstrable effect. There are other measures that can give more and better effect. However, we consider all measures that can be effective and can reduce youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e452	I ‘Possession of children and young people. The government’s objectives and areas of action in the 2009 government budget are presented in a chapter entitled ‘Everyone should be given the opportunity to get into work’. read about some good purposes and measures, as well as the action guarantee. I am afraid that this guarantee is as much, or rather, as little worth as other guarantees I have previously taken up with the Council of State. You call it a guarantee, and it gives some rights and rewards to someone, but not to everyone. Many quickly discover that a guarantee does not mean “guaranteed”. According to Labour and Welfare No. 2–2009, we need to be over 20 years back in time to find the last time the growth of unemployment was something close to what we are experiencing now. By the end of April 2009, there were 11,400 persons registered as completely unemployed in the 20–24 age group and 11,000 in the 25–29 age group. These together make up about one third of all those who are completely unemployed. It is common for young jobseekers with little or no professional experience to be hit harder by increased unemployment during a recession. The figures are actually assumed to be even higher, as several of the young people do not register because of a lack of acquired rights to daily allowances. The figures for young men are almost twice as high as for young women. The government's policy seems to have failed the young. The highest rate of unemployment is found in construction. This isn't coming exactly as a surprise. It was these industries that marked the decline first, and is why the Progress Party had so much focus on this in its alternative budget and later in the action packages. According to the Romanesque Blade on 30 May, there are 1,187 apprentices only in Akershus who are applying for a seat now until the autumn. Last year there were only about half of those who searched, who got a place. The hub wears violently a day. They are lagging behind in most of the work and spend most of their resources on getting rid of the queue of people waiting for a performance. So for temporary positions. Most people who have a temporary position say that it is, after all, better to have a temporary job than not to have a job to go to at all. Organisations concerned with poverty are calling for the use of temporary posts because temporary posts are better than no job. All in all, this is a major cause for concern. The signals given today by the Council of State do not give any particular reason to be less concerned. I'm afraid that many people will remain unemployed for a long time, and I'm also afraid that many people will be left without an apprenticeship for the autumn, as apprenticeship places are closely linked to the labour market in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e473	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund discusses what the Government will do to prevent young jobseekers from losing their jobs in the labour market. In recent years, we have had a number of debates on the 20–29 age group, with different themes. In several counties, the percentage of disability in that group increases. Last year we had a debate about young people who are particularly overrepresented, and that so many in that age group are unemployed, not part of the labour market, is in many ways a defeat for society. The number of young workers has increased markedly during this period. With a greater degree of flexibility, more people might also have tried themselves in a labour market. Of course, it's more complex than there's only one recipe for this. Schooling, as many have mentioned, is definitely one of the factors, and we see that many — especially boys — drop out of high school and often go to a run in unemployment. It will in any case also be the case in the future that people are different, and that there may be a need for a greater degree of attention to that difference. The threshold for entering the labour market — with increased opportunities — would allow temporary employment to increase the chances of trying to get into work. But it can also give room for those who are outside, who want to get inside. The use of more temporary employment also gives the opportunity to gain a foot within. Governments themselves point to high levels of unemployment among young people. The representative Henriksen pointed out that dancing limbo was not certain. I want to say that it might have to be better to get on the dance than to have to stand outside the ring. Actually, I think it's a big advantage. If you're allowed to be with a little while, you also have a better chance of getting back. I think this is getting too schematic. I think we need to have a greater degree of flexibility, which also benefits the young. If we always just point out that this is how it should be, I think it'll be hard for the kids to get into this, especially in times like these. It's also interesting to see some headlines in the newspapers lately, because this applies not only to those who fall outside and do not have work, but we also see the same in relation to disability. In the whole-red Trondheim, today's headline in the Address Paper is that every fourth social client is in this age group. This is not just a defeat for society, but it shows that, with what should be as great in a red municipality as Trondheim, you do not reach the goals that individual representatives boast of here today. Flexibility, I think, is the key to achieving some of the goals. Unfortunately, the majority do not share that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e488	I thank all those who have taken part in the debate. It is very positive that so many share my concerns for all young people who are striving to get into permanent work. It is even more positive that none of those who have had posts today minimize the problem of saying that this is due to the financial crisis, which other countries have to address. Everyone has been keenly concerned about how to solve youth unemployment in our country when employment is weak. I have noticed that representatives from the Government are more satisfied than the opposition. Many people have focused on using time to acquire education and skills while waiting for the labour market to turn around. I agree. Learning is easy to carry, it's called. At the same time, it is uncertain about and when we get better times. Therefore, it is important to do something concrete in today's situation. I note that the Council of State was not overly enthusiastic about my cautious approach to temporary work for young people. I'm not going to repeat it. But I think several of us need to be able to think more constructively and give employers a little more drag help. The representative Henriksen said 20 pst. got a regular job. It's better than nothing. But I'm open to good ideas. In the past, we have also discussed the situation of young people. I could also imagine mentioning two other groups that are struggling to enter the labour market, and there are young people with immigrant backgrounds and young people with disabilities. While there are good labour market measures, does the Council of State believe that one could use non-governmental organisations more in such a context? I have a concern, and I hope we can get good solutions. I thank you for your commitment and your willingness to improve. It deserves the young generation, because it is the one who represents the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e506	I can confirm: we need a variety of measures, and we need a variety of activities, and much of the activity can happen in good cooperation – and in good cooperation – with non-governmental organisations. It's a good move in Norwegian society. But I have to be allowed to stop a little bit more by de minimising the employment protection of young people, under the heading that it is better to have a temporary job than to have no job. If it's a job to do, we think it's better that young people have safe employment than unsafe employment -- that's what's our starting point -- and it's very much about safety in the workplace and the last debate we had about, about safe pay and employment. Then I can say that I know that the Ministry of Knowledge will present a big message about competence policy – I believe it is in June – and there will be more action in this area, in addition to those we have all implemented. Let me mention one: Vocational training is strengthened. We have therefore completed a two-year practical course as a possible professional course. It's just the kind of action that we know works. When young people are allowed to work in a practical way and then learn the theory based on the experience of doing something practical, we know that it is an effective tool. So it sounds to the representative of Kjønaas Kjos that Norway is not part of the international economic crisis. In fact, we have less unemployment than very many countries around us, not least our closest neighbour, Sweden, but we are affected by the international crisis. Then it is not only useful to comment on it as if the increase in unemployment in Norway is something that this government has imposed on the country. No, we need to look at what measures we are taking in relation to other countries affected by the same economic crisis. And then we know that we're increasing our efforts more in relation to how many unemployed we have, than other countries around us. This is why unemployment is increasing slightly less than in other countries. Then the representative, Kjønaas Kjos, was also involved in the problem of the type of action that the Youth Guarantee, which guarantees that if you are between 20 and 24, you will receive an offer if you have not received a job or offer to school in six months. Yeah, it's true that some tools just hit someone. The Youth Guarantee, for example: – 20–24 years old – doesn't meet me. I think I would suggest that it does not meet the representative of Kjønaas Kjos either. But we're going to have some targeted instruments targeting young people, and that's exactly what results. We are committed to discussing, on the basis of the interaction of Woie Duesund with industry and the social partners, how we can constantly develop the tools to provide even better opportunities to secure employment in general and among young people in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e522	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e550	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3320]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e567	The Presidency shall promote proposals for certain changes to the committee structure of the Storting and the composition of the committees. The proposals are promoted on the basis of an internal selection of which all batch groups have been represented. As regards the committee structure, a majority of the Presidency proposes that the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee be merged into one committee. The background for this is that the subject matter of the two committees is gradually coincident to the extent that, in our view, the Storting should prepare the matters within the same committee. The fact that we do not get our own defence committee in Stortinget does not, of course, mean that defence policy is being deprived, on the contrary: it will have a more central place in Stortinget. When the Fisheries Committee disappeared and became part of the nutrition committee, I remember when it was said that the fisheries policy – and also the agricultural policy – would have a less central place in the work of the Stortinge. That hasn't happened. I guess you'd better say the opposite. I think the same thing will happen here: now that we are making defence policy a part of the whole foreign and security policy, defence policy will have a significantly greater place in the attention of the Stortinge. I understand that individual groups think it's okay to have their own committee in Stortinget, but that doesn't mean that their interests are being cared for in the best possible way then. I rather believe that what we are doing now will lead, as I say, to a higher level of defence policy on the agenda and to the attention of several representatives of big business. Consultations with the Government on military preparedness are proposed to the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, while civil protection matters are transferred to the Judicial Committee. Reports of the Ombudsman’s Office for Defence and the Ombudsman’s Office for Civil Protection Officers shall be examined on the basis of the proposal by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. Some changes in the composition of the committees are also proposed. Firstly, it shall be easier for the batch teams to change the committee position of their members during the wholesale period. The groups shall be able to propose such changes to the Electoral Committee, including cases of resignation, such as: in the case of changes of government, it is necessary to amend the composition of the committee. Secondly, the majority of the Presidency believes that all party groups should have a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. However, the small groups shall be able to require that this member be also appointed as a member of another trade committee, in order to enable him to have double committee membership. We think it is very important that all parties have the opportunity to participate in the monitoring work in Stortinget, and also to participate in the preparation of the Constitutional Bill for Stortinget. Finally, I would like to mention that a majority of the Presidency also proposes that matters relating to the electoral rules of the Sameting be transferred from the Municipal and Management Committee to the Control and Constitutional Committee, so that the latter committee is given responsibility for all electoral legislation. With this, the presidency's position is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e582	It is true, as the previous speaker said, that what was the Committee on Fisheries has been phased out. I just want to remind you that fisheries policy is definitely part of the business policy, so it is too natural to have it within the business committee. I'm just going to make a few brief comments on those points where the Progress Party disagrees with the majority. I would like to refer to the suspension and our comments there and to the attachment, where it is clear what the Progress Party believes in the matter. We agree that it is important to be able to follow a case closely in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but we stand out by not all being given the same rights. This is a proposal that really helps to strengthen the smaller parties. There are probably many good reasons for that, but we believe that one should reflect what is the result of the elections. Then we are also concerned with the merger of the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee, which we oppose. One of the arguments used by the majority is that there is a smaller amount of case in the Defence Committee. The question can then be asked: if the two committees are merged and a number of representative proposals are put forward during the next period, so that this committee will have twice as many issues as the other committees, will the Committee be split again – if you use that kind of argument? I think this is an argument that really doesn't hold the goal. Looking at the issues that the Committee on Defence has today, they are of considerable importance, both in terms of security policy and in terms of investment. If you look at the air purchase case, which is currently being dealt with, there are investments of NOK 160 billion. It is the largest public investment Norway has ever made. The proposition is on the eleven-and-a-half side. Then you have the investment proposition that comes from the Defense, which is significant, and which of course could also have been broken up and handled in other ways, if the amount of the case is crucial, as the majority among others. uses as argument. We don't think that's the right way to do it. We want to follow the tradition of the long lines. Continuing a defence committee is also important for the future. I would also like to refer to what has come to the Stortinget from the civil servants' organisations in the Defence Agency, where the Joint Organisation of the Order, the Norwegian Officers' Association, the National Association of the War Schools, the Norwegian Civil Service Team and the Personnel Association are totally opposed to the idea of the liquidation of the Defence Committee in the Norwegian Grand Duchy. That is an opinion we support, but unfortunately not the majority. Finally, let me take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e597	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e600	Since the Central Party is not a member of the Presidency, I just want to announce that we support the election of the Presidentship of the Stortinge. We've been in the Committee Structures Committee. There I have sailed sitting, and followed this work closely. I believe, on behalf of the Central Party, that there are important changes that are being made, in particular that there is increasing access for the party groups to change the committee position of their members during the accumulation period. It's actually important. It is more important for the small parties, where we sit and have one in each committee. We think it is good that there is an opportunity to change the committee. I don't think I'm going to say anything more. We support, as has been said, the position of the Presidentship of Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e609	Just a few short notes. The proposal to merge the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee is, in my view, a forward-looking and correct proposal. It is linked to the development we have had over quite a number of years, that security policy is and becomes an integral part of foreign policy, and that it appears less and less natural to maintain what was in the history of the Storting as a separate military committee, and which for many years was its own defence committee. The reason why I think it necessary to make some comments is that in the public debate some views have been expressed that this would mean a demise of the importance of the defence. Similar debates were held when, some years ago, the Stortinget brought together what in its time was the responsibility of the Agriculture Committee, the Fisheries Committee and the Industry Committee to one committee. It was also interpreted as de-valuating the importance of primary industries. All the experience has shown that in Storting's work, this works the way it was meant to be, that you see things in a slightly larger context than before. This means that Storting’s own work is less fragmented and fragmented than in the past, and it also means that the workload is better allocated to the GFCCs. The fact that, according to tradition, most parliamentary leaders are members of the Foreign Affairs Committee is also a clear argument that adding to that Committee’s remit no downgrading or devaluation of any subject matter is involved. So a brief comment on the issue of the Control and Constitutional Committee and the need to ensure that the parties with too small groups to have permanent representation in that committee can also participate in the work of the Control Committee. I have mentioned a minority proposal in the context that I just want to briefly justify. It should be possible for the small batches to decide for themselves which of the control cases are then subject to consultation in the control committee, in which case they wish to participate, and they should, in the context of that consultation process, be given exactly the same rights as the permanent members of the committee. There are no serious arguments, as far as I can see, which speak against this, and it will also make the small party groups feel that they can participate fully in line with the major party groups in the consideration of the important matters that are the subject of consultation in the control and constitution committee. I am therefore addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e618	The representative of Inge Wohnning has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e621	It is positive and right that there is a regular review of the committee structure in the Storting. During the review carried out before today’s debate, the left has been open to a major change which could result in fewer committees on the Grand Duchy. We were open to bringing together committees so that we could see problems and challenges in a wider context. It would also have given the advantage that several parties could meet in the committees with several members. This approach was not endorsed by the group that has worked on these issues, so it was set aside early in the work. The Left supports the proposal to merge the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee. We believe that this is well justified both in terms of the amount of the case and the subject matter, and I also think that the reason has been found in Inge Wohnungs and others' contributions earlier today. We also think it is positive that the parties should be represented in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We believe that such a broad representation is in line with the role of the Committee, and that the majority of the mechanism under consideration is more appropriate than an off-and-off scheme, which is the one proposed and justified by Inge Wohnung. We in the Left believe that it is positive that the party groups should be able to change the committee position more flexibly during the period and also support it. The Annex to the Committee's configuration will indicate that the Left has called for the Committee meetings to be held in open rooms. It's an attitude that I'm left alone in the sample. I'm sorry about that. The majority justify their skepticism that the committees are part of the internal work of the Storting and that it is most effective that there are no open-door meetings. I believe that transparency is not hindered either by part of the preparatory work in the Stortinget or by an effective procedure. Most people will probably feel that the committee meetings are not of interest to the press in their daily work, but in some context there will be interest in it, and there should also be the possibility of transparency in committee meetings. The type of objection used against open committee meetings was also opposed to opening the hearings to the public, as proposed and endorsed by the Left. It is also this kind of objection that has been used when debating open Presidency meetings. It would at home work in the Presidency, it was said. Now there's a legal system that nobody questions. I believe it is up to our Parliament to have great openness, and then open meetings are included in the committees as part of it. A short time ago, the press division had a meeting on transparency issues in Stortinget. Then open committee meetings were a theme. Carl I. Hagen was enthusiastic about the open committee meetings at the meeting of the press department. He thought open committee meetings were of course, and showed among others. to Congress in the United States. I record that the Progress Party in the setting has a different view, and that the Left stands alone on the opinion that we received in the meeting with the Press Release from Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e636	This is really a matter of updating Storting's Rules of Procedure so as to bring the Rules of Procedure more into line with what is needed in today's situation. The Christian People's Party is in the plural setting at all points. Looking at that background, the staging president's articles are clarifying both for our position and for our foundation. So I'm going to make this very short when it applies to the three main points here. When we go into the possibility of changing the composition of committees during the election period, we see that this is a need that arises from time to time. In that case, it would only be lacking that the Rules of Procedure do not also take up the matter. When it comes to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and Double Committee membership, it is clear to most that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has an increasingly important role to play, so that being represented there for all parties is becoming more and more important. That is why I think it is quite natural that this should be included in the Rules of Procedure. The last concerns the merger of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Defence Committee. There I'm completely in line with those who have already expressed that this is in no way a weakening of defence-related issues – rather the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e649	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3320]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e666	In the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on Norway's participation in European space programmes, there is a cross-political agreement on the importance of Norwegian participation in the programme of the European Space Agency (ESA). Since Norway joined in 1987, Norwegian enterprises and research communities have benefited from the opportunity to participate with international environments in the development of new knowledge, technologies and products. The ring-effect factor of Norwegian space-related activities, which is calculated annually by the Norwegian Space Centre, shows us that the benefits over and above direct investment continue to be high. There was therefore every reason to believe that the Government had chosen to continue the significant commitment that Norway has had in the ESA programme. But unfortunately, the Government greatly disappointed the space environment at the ESA Minimum Council meeting in November 2008. There, the Government went in to reduce Norway’s involvement in relation to NNI levels. It is this choice that creates a distinction in the matter. I expect the government parties to explain their position, and then I will try to address some of the opposition parties' views on the matter. In all the treatments of Norwegian space policy, either as a matter of its own or in the context of the State budget, there has been a unique agreement on the importance of our involvement in ESA, which has meant for industry and research environments a predictability and a long-termity that has provided the basis for a significant Norwegian initiative. The goal has been to keep Norwegian participation at least at a NNI level, and for some of us who have had the pleasure of getting in-depth knowledge of the environment, the desire for further investment beyond the NNI level has certainly been nearby. It is ensnaring at a time when government and growth underline the importance of research and development through its own innovation message and own research message, that one chooses to go away from a space effort that has been cross-politically agreed on so far. It is also surprising that this will be done at a time when the Government is presenting package of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. One would think when faced with major challenges in traditional business, that it would be wise to increase the investment in international programmes that allow Norwegian companies to fit into exciting new high-tech projects. I note that the government parties refer to the Norwegian involvement in the Galileo project, which the Stortinget will deal with in one week, and that it will be a patch on the wound. But it will be a poor comfort to the Norwegian space environment. In the view of the Progress Party, the initiative in the Galileo project should have been in addition to maintaining the level of the other European space programmes. Then we would maintain the predictability that Stortinget has given the space research environment in the current period, while at the same time confirming the Norwegian involvement in ESA's programmes. Finally, I would like to refer to the overall comments of the opposition parties, in which we announce an expected escalation in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e679	The development of the Norwegian space industry is really an adventure. Participation in the European Space Agency (ESA) gives Norwegian companies the opportunity to develop a top-notch technology that is among the world's leading. For every penny we invest in these programs, we actually get five back. The Norwegian space industry now has an annual turnover of more than DKK 5 billion, with an export share of 70 pst. It is to the credit of the Government that in 2005 it seized the opportunities that then provided and increased the efforts made in the ESA programmes. This effort continues in the coming years. In addition, the European satellite navigation system Galileo is now being implemented, which is to be treated as a matter of its own. Overall, this will lead to an increase of around 600 million in the annual Norwegian commitments to European space industry programmes. kr. In particular, against all odds and in competition with companies in many countries that have far greater resources than we have, Norwegian high-tech companies have been able to claim themselves in a number of selected areas. Targeted research efforts and competence building are key to this success. And it's not far between the doctoral degrees in these companies. Several of the companies are located in Horten, where the space industry also contributes strongly to the development of the microtechnology environment at the University of Westfold. At the same time, may I remind you that the deployment of new satellite-based navigation and surveillance systems is an important part of our North Sea policy, and indeed a prerequisite for exploiting the oil and gas resources in the Barents Sea. Climate change will also lead to ice-free northern regions becoming large parts of the year. It opens the northern routes of Asia and involves increasing ship traffic through the north-east pass. Of course, it imposes very special requirements on maritime safety in the area. In a modern society, it is quite impossible to cope without the tools that the space industry has provided us with. We just don't think that mobile telephony is actually quite advanced satellite communications like the GPS technology in cars and boats. Norwegian farms are actually in the world elite in this area. The opposition parties meet the historic investment in the space industry with suspense that the Government does not comply with all good programmes, as if they have particularly good results to point to from their own government period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e692	Space-related goods and services are a significant industry in Norway, with a total turnover of DKK 6.3 billion in 2007. Of these, the value of Norwegian-produced goods and services amounted to NOK 5.4 billion. The export share is approx. 71 pst., and thus this is an important Norwegian export product. It may be an industry that is not so well known to the individual, but it is a significant industry and an important industry in terms of developing skills and future-oriented jobs. State appropriations shall include, inter alia: contribute to the achievement by Norwegian industry of strong international positions in priority areas such as telecommunications, satellite navigation, Earth observation and launchers. Investment in space is, as several have been involved, a profitable investment, with a good return on each krona invested. Through participation in the space programme European Space Agency, we have ensured Norwegian companies knowledge and good conditions in the space market. The left is aware that the annual ESA effort will continue to increase until 2011 due to investments committed to in 2005. However, due to the decline in Norwegian efforts in ESA, investment in projects decreased much more and earlier than previously assumed. The consequences of this could be fewer contracts for Norwegian industry, which will have negative consequences for Norwegian ground stations such as Tromsø, Svalbard and Troll, which will no longer have a central role in the ground segment of the GMES space component. In addition, the Government's tightening of appropriations for ESA could lead to the loss of downstream services such as oil-silver monitoring and fewer assignments for research actors around the country. Sweden is aggressively betting on GMES to secure industrial tasks. In a written question from me dated 6 February 2009 to Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Sylvia Brustad, I ask the Council of State whether she is concerned that Norwegian space activities can lose ground to, among others. Sweden because of their commitment to the programme. The Council of State answers that the Government has arranged for considerable efforts in the field of space activities, so one can interpret the answer to the question that she is not concerned. However, on behalf of the Left, I would like to express a concern for the Norwegian space industry and research projects related to Norway's low participation in the European Space Agency ESA. Norsk Romsenter has proposed to the Minister of Industry an increase of the Roma Centre’s national accompaniment funds to 75 million. kr from 2010, to compensate for the losses in the upstream industry caused by low ESA efforts. The Left considers that the Government should follow the recommendation of the Norwegian Space Centre and increase the national accompanying funds in the context of the forthcoming budget. The left hopes that the Council of State will send positive signals on this, as space travel has become an important industry for Norway. The left will fight for it to be in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e705	As many people have already mentioned, this type of programme and activity is more important to Norway than many people in the street feel it is. When we discuss this here, there is thus a good opportunity to point to just the great benefits Norway has of this type of activity. Norway is one of the countries in Europe which must be said to benefit most from technological solutions and infrastructure in space. I could mention a lot of examples. Since I am also here as Minister of Justice, I would like to point out in particular the significant impact they have on the responsibilities that lie, among other things. in my own department. Svalbard and the Troll satellite have already been mentioned by the representative of Kongshaug, but we also have major challenges in the north to be able to model rescue and preparedness in the future, so this is precisely what this activity is all about. It is exciting to see that part of the programmes and the part of the development lines we are seeing can contribute to the rapid improvement of the safety of all the traffic that will take place in areas that we consider to be particularly vulnerable. I would also like to point out that participation in the European Space Agency constitutes the support for us in our Norwegian space operations. In particular, I would like to point out the industrial opportunities that this gives us, and the programmes that ESA has, and also, of course, that the ESA participation turns out to be very effective as a good tool for industrial policy. As Gullvåg pointed out, we're going to get a lot of money here for the heads that we actually invest. In this way, I am pleased that there is a broad political outreach on this type of activity, although there is now a debate on where the level should be. I have to say a few words about that. The government, seen as a whole, has, over the last four years, strengthened Norway's overall involvement in the European Space Agency. So the impression you might get when you heard the case rapporteur and by reading the minority's comments, that there is almost a severe downturn going on, must be wrong. At the Berlin Council of Ministers in 2005, the Government committed 122 million. euro in new voluntary programmes. There was a new record in the Norwegian context. ESA programmes run over several years, and on average they last between six and seven years. That is why we still benefit greatly from the efforts made in 2005. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that during the Edinburgh Council of Ministers, the Bondevik II Government declared participation in new programmes of 67 million. the euro, only for the purpose of indicating levels of the bet here. In my opinion, therefore, the Hague declarations are not back on the level of the declaration made by the former government, among other things. in Edinburgh. Our NNI share has increased significantly in the last four years. This has a direct impact on our participation in the science programme. The programme is financed as known by the quota, which has increased sharply over the period in question. I am therefore somewhat surprised at the minority's comments in that area, especially taking into account our total declarations. Finally, I would like to point out that since 2005, the Government has been focusing in particular on three areas of great importance for the further development of this type of Norwegian space activity. Firstly, the allocation of national accompanying funds has been increased to enable the Norwegian space-related industry to qualify for ESA contracts and to take part in the opportunities offered by our investment in ESA. It is also a pleasure for me, as Minister of Justice, to see that we have prioritised the development of automatic identification systems for ships – AIS – via satellite. This is a project that also has a lot of attention beyond Norway’s borders. Then, at the 2008 Ministerial Council meeting, the government raised 90 million. the euro on the table for participation in new voluntary programmes. The amount is lower than in 2005, but we must take into account that the ESA programmes, which started after the 2005 Ministerial Council meeting, are still running, which I was in place. Thirdly, I would like to point out what is now happening with the Galileo satellite navigation programme. In April, the Government proposed Norwegian participation in the development of this programme, which started in ESA, as is known, with Norwegian participation. The EU is now responsible for the development of the system. We believe it is right that Norway is also an active participant in this phase. Furthermore, it is important that we participate when the EU focuses increasingly on space activities. By participating in the deployment phase, we will be part of and reaping from the development investments we have made in ESA, establishing ourselves at the same time as a partner for the EU in the application of new space-based solutions. This is a significant effort over six years, with Norway’s contribution amounting to 600 million. kr during the six-year period, and there is an important investment in important infrastructure for all of us. When I look back at the bet we have behind us, and the opportunities and bets that lie ahead of us, which are also well described in the proposition, I believe that there is no reason to conclude otherwise than that there has been a solid uplift for this type of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e731	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e748	The majority will now consider a proposal by the major representatives of Ingreig S. Sørfonn and Hans Olav Syversen in view of increased value creation and regulatory simplification by bringing together the responsibility for business-related laws in one department. The proposers point out that there are many rules and many forms to deal with. It is also claimed that there are many unnecessary reporting requirements and, in particular, small businesses and small businesses feel that this is a heavy burden. The proposal specifically states that accounting law, which is now in the Ministry of Finance, and company law, which is in the Ministry of Justice, are to be collected in one department in order to make everyday life easier for those who have to make enquiries in relation to the two sets of rules. The majority of the committee, the government parties, refers to a letter from the government council where one does not find it appropriate to change the organisation that one has today. The majority support this assessment from the Council of State: normally, the Storting should not be left out of the way this work is organised; this is the responsibility of the government. In principle, one has to agree with that, but when said, it is also important to focus on making proposals for simplification in order for things to happen. It is also stressed that in other countries, as in Sweden, this is collected in one department, as in Denmark, while in Finland it is distributed across several departments. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe, on a principle basis, that this should not be taken into account by the Storting. It's the government that has the right to organize this work. Nevertheless, the Left believes, in line with the Christian People's Party, that this is such an important matter that it is important to give a signal that the work of simplification, especially in relation to small businesses, must continue, and that this may be an action. We're asking the government to evaluate it. This also entails considerable costs. It's estimated at 57 billion kroner in terms of the time spent and expenses spent by businesses. That's a significant amount. Often, individual forms, individual reporting, are viewed as necessary, and it may be useful when looking at the content of individual reporting, but in sum, there is often such a burden that one here has to do something to make everyday life easier for businesses. The majority in the Committee agree that the proposal is not acceptable, but there is a minority proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left that I believe the Christian People's Party will promote, as they are the active ones in this matter. With these words, I just want to make it clear that we are, of course, in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e763	The intention behind the Christian People's Party's proposal to strengthen the importance of value creation and simplification by bringing together responsibility for business-related legislation in one department is good, and has Right's support. However, when we do not vote in favour of this proposal in Stortinget today, it is because of the purely fundamental assessment that it is the government that organizes the government's work and is therefore responsible for the result of that work. In my view, if the Storting puts too much weight on how the work is to be organised internally in the government apparatus, it could cause some confusion about who is responsible for the outcome of the work. The place of responsibility for regulatory regulation in different departments and, in so far as the location of other tasks in different departments is concerned, is the responsibility of the government. That said, it is clearly a challenge for the Government to organise work in this area in a way that provides a simpler everyday life for large and small enterprises in Norway. Better coordination of the work on laws and regulations, as proposed by the Christian People's Party, could make this work better suited to the needs of businesses and thus save many unnecessary expenses and time spent. According to the Government's own estimates, the Norwegian industry has expenditure related to compliance with information requirements in public legislation of SEK 57 billion each year, corresponding to Pst 2.6. of gross domestic product. So there's huge amounts of money that are going to comply with different requirements in laws and regulations. Therefore, it is with some disappointment that we record that the Government practiced an action plan in the area of simplification that contained relatively marginal measures to reduce these costs. It was so disappointing that the government did not want to specify any concrete objective for the simplification work, which is easy to interpret in the direction of lack of ambition. In this sense, the Christian People's Party addresses a very important theme in this proposal. In this context, I would also like to refer to the consideration of the proposal by the representative of the Right, Document No. 8:7 for 2008-2009, where an overall opposition was behind the proposal to ask the Government to promote its own key messages on how to reduce the administrative costs of business to comply with information requirements in public legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e772	The Christian People's Party believes that many public rules, forms and regulations lead to unnecessary reporting requirements and complicated legislation. Small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs are particularly hard hit by this ‘form field’. Over 99 pst. by enterprises are just small or medium-sized enterprises. Half are family property. This is the backbone of Business Norway. These businesses are important for people and districts, and for the creation of value, which is the basis of our welfare arrangements. These companies need to spend time on what they are going to do, instead of constantly getting involved in new laws and bureaucratic regulations. Hence, the Christian People's Party believes that it is a main task to simplify the everyday life of these businesses. This can be done by abolishing unnecessary laws and regulations and simplifying the necessary reporting. As proposers, we have shown that in August 2008, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade presented the Government's action plan to reduce the administrative costs of enterprises. This action plan lists various measures that will contribute to simplification, but what this will reduce costs in terms of costs does not have a decisive influence on the government. The NHO estimates suggest that these measures represent less than one percent reduction in administrative standards. The Christian People's Party is agreed with the NHO in that this is not particularly ambitious. It's e.g. far from the EU target of a 25 pst reduction. The NHO's administrative structure is relatively as large as they were 10 years ago. This costs the companies approx. NOK 57 billion per year. years. The Christian People's Party believes in this context that it is necessary to strengthen the simplification work. As part of this, and in order to strengthen the perspective of value creation in the field of industrial law, the Christian People's Party proposes to pool responsibility for accounting law and company law, which is currently in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice respectively, in one department. The Christian People's Party believes that these areas, among others. the accounting law, the accounting law, the accounting law, the share law, the general stock law and the company law are entirely central to Norwegian business and to Norwegian value creation. It is therefore natural that the responsibility for this legislation lies with the Ministry responsible for simplification, which has as its overseen the objective of facilitating the greatest possible value creation in the economy. It is – indisputably – the government that is responsible for the organisation and distribution of the field of affairs between the departments. But that is precisely why we cannot understand that the government does not seize this opportunity to clean up heavy, bureaucratic regulations, making life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises. They would have felt it, all these businesses and entrepreneurs who are really on, and who every single day do a really great job. Finally, I will make the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e791	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e794	This is also a discussion that I believe is very important. When you look at it from different departments, you often see different intentions behind laws and regulations. In this way, it is also interesting to take part in this matter as Minister of Justice, because it is true, as the proposal says, and by the representative of Sørfonn, that some of the responsibility for this legislation lies among others. Ministry of Justice. Let there be no doubt that the government has great ambitions in terms of regulation simplification, also in addition to the thoughts we often make when we sit and fill out forms. We have significant challenges, but at the same time have addressed important challenges not only in terms of industrial legislation but also in terms of other types of legislation, in order to make it more accessible. The Odelstinget will be dealing with a new mineral law later today. It's a very good example of how to make rules simpler and more comprehensible to people who are going to do business. The ambitions must be measured not only on the basis of the number of forms – that is important also – and the complexity of the forms, but also on the basis of how we build up the law otherwise. Is it, then, driven by the issue of simplification and legal work, in relation to major, important laws that have an impact on business, but also on others? I will answer yes. That's it. Our ambitions are reflected in the fact that during this very period of our history, the Storting has dealt with many important legal issues, which have made it easier to deal with them. So the perspective of that must be further. I am of the opinion that the simplification of rules and the simplification of procedures also help to make the rules in themselves more effective, and that it is not just an immediate benefit to business. Getting effective legislation requires that rules are simple to deal with and easy to use. I very much support the idea of the proposal, the spirit of the proposal, of creating simpler rules. The second is that if we want a law on accounting law, accountancy law and accounting that is becoming completely marginal, and that helps to remove many of the constraints that lie there on how to apply accounting principles, etc., we can go so far in some cases that we actually make it so simple that it affects efficiency, in the sense that we have side effects of it all. There's reason to underline. The protection of minority shareholders is a very important part of this type of legislation, which helps us to have rules, and in some cases also forms and procedures, but which contribute to the ability of business to raise capital. For example, what might now create a headache for many entrepreneurs, that you have to report a lot of your activities, including: In order to control it against crime, it also helps to ensure that we have a well-functioning market and that there is no other type of activity that goes beyond, for example, the environment. both the tax and tax systems. The absence of rules and practices does not mean that business is immediately more effective. We have to find a balance point. I believe that questions can certainly be asked about whether it is such that bringing these matters together in one department helps both to simplify rules and not least to get effective rules. It is the assessment of any government that has to take place, based on the considerations behind the rules that are actually set to be administered, and that is not immediately what you might get an opinion of when you hear business representatives talking about rules. But I think we have a great deal of common interest in creating simple rules. They become more effective, while also protecting us better. Then I will also refer to the action plan that the Government presented last year. It is at my discretion, and at the discretion of the Government, a comprehensive and good action plan, which will contribute to more effective administrative procedures and also to savings. With regard to my own field, the Ministry of Justice, it is interesting to look at the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness and the simplification they make of the HMS Code, where the regulation is now to be made more user-friendly. Unnecessary details and double reporting must be removed, 30 regulations should become 10, and it is possible to do so without necessarily having collected those matters in one department. It's under the Ministry of Justice, but we have every interest in making those rules more effective. Then I have mentioned the new mineral law, which will be treated in Odelstinget today. I think that is a good example of how to make the legislation considerably better. I think we all agree on that. In the case of the mineral law, we also immediately see that the minority actually requires written notice of search to the landowner – which is the case and involves more bureaucracy. But precisely the reason for the landowner was invoked by the opposition in that case. So when we come to individual matters, we have to find the balance between creating an effective regulatory framework. Finally, I would like to mention the important coordination that is now taking place through the use of good electronic services. I think that there we might have the largest volume to pick up. There's one of the most important tools in the ALTINN portal. Further development work is well under way, to which the Storting allocated considerable funds last autumn, and we will still be able to benefit greatly from the efficiency work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e820	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e823	It is nice to hear that the government has great ambitions in terms of regulatory simplification, but unfortunately it is also such that it is a well-kept secret how big these ambitions are, and that the government has taken away the ambitions that lay there from before, and has no figures in relation to what kind of goals you have. But it was tempting to take a line now at the Minister of Justice, because we have very many small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. We have a development with almost 27,000 so-called NUF companies, and there are many companies that are small and do not find the Norwegian Share Act particularly attractive. There is a development internationally with a simpler share and accounting legislation for small enterprises. In this context, the Board of Auditors has taken a commendable initiative and presented its own proposal for the micro-equity law and the micro-accounts law for small companies. Can the Council of State confirm that the creation of a separate share law for small companies, a regulation that is flexible for small start-up companies, is on the Government's agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e832	As the representative of Hansen knows, we have had a broad review of both the public limited-liability company law and the general stock law in recent years, and the Stortinget has been presented with several cases relating to it. Once again, we are also in a situation where I believe that we actually have a system that provides very much for efficiency reasons – it is easy to run the industry and get it set up faster. In fact, even if you want to create new classes and classifications for corporate activity, many people think that we want to make a more complicated set of rules. But then I want to meet the representative Hansen here, because even though you have had a broad review of these types of companies and the laws in recent times, this is an area that is in dynamic development, and that we still need to keep an eye on in the years to come, among other things. with a view to more effective rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e839	I am also pleased that the Council of State here confirms that, in spirit and intention, the Government is in agreement with us proposers here. At the same time, the Council of State said that it is such that different departments tend to have different foundations and look slightly different at different laws. So the state councils did a little bit about this by collecting all the business-related legislation under one department, and he asked the question like this a little bit philosophically if this was so biased, so I think it's more like an assessment. But I don't really have a conclusion, and that's what I'm asking: does the Council have a view on whether, as a general rule, it would be preferable to collect all the laws relating to an activity, that is, all business, in one department, or is he very open here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e846	I believe that any government must at all times consider what is the appropriate allocation of tasks. We're looking at changes in that field. But at the same time, as regards this type of specific legislation, I believe that the conclusion of the Committee and the majority is correct, because there is an appropriate division of labour in this respect. Just think of the importance of this type of legislation to which it refers, if only based on strictly isolated industrial policy considerations. Then I think a lot would be lost. And I'm not sure if it would make it more effective – I refer to the reasoning I had in place – because that, among other things. would go beyond the concerns of the Ministry of Justice, the issue of crime control, control, and the issue of the more fiscal aspects of which the Ministry of Finance is concerned. So I think this arrangement as it now works, also gives more effective process around making laws and regulations. For this reason, I believe that today's working order so far seems to work best.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e854	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e873	The size must treat St.meld. No 29 for 2008-2009 on Entra Eiendom AS. The background to the Storing Communication is that, during the examination of Document No, the Storing Control and Constitutional Committee. 3:2 for 2006-2007 from the Riksrevision asked the Government to submit an investigation on Entra Eiendom as a separate case to the Stortinget. Entra Eiendom was established in 2000. The main purpose of the company was to meet the government's needs for premises, but the company should also be able to operate related property activities, including the rental of premises to tenants other than the country. The reasons for the need for clarification include: the extensive and increasing involvement of Entra Eiendom with private tenants and the company's investment in development projects in the property market has changed the nature of the business. It is therefore positive, in isolation, that the Government has provided a large-scale communication clarifying the framework for the company. The notification states that Entra Eiendom has since 2000 established itself as an important commercial operator in the Norwegian property market. Since then, property portfolio has increased by 90 pst, from 600 000 m2 in 2000 to 1.1 million m2 in 2008. At the end of 2008, the area rented out to public tenants was 82 pst. of the contract mass. The rest is let out to private. The rent to public tenants is down and has fallen by 3 pst. from 2007 to 2008. In other words, Entra Property is moving largely towards the private property market. The blending of State and private tenants and the professionalisation of the business has, according to the Communication, contributed to the professionalisation of the offer of the public customers to Entra Eiendom. Overall, the Communication shows that the establishment of Entra Eiendom AS has streamlined and rationalised the state use of office premises, which is clearly positive. As you can see, Entra Eiendom is an example of how privatisation provides improvements in public service production. While the company is still not privately owned, the fact that it achieves results by acting as a reindeer private actor illustrates the point. In this context, it must be allowed to note that today's government has let this go almost four years without applying this type of modernisation measures in particular. The ideological failure to look for the kind of solutions that Entra Eiendom is an example of allows the public sector to miss out on some potential for improvement. As regards the relationship between Statsbyggen and Entra Eiendom, the notice states that Statsbyggen will manage the construction of buildings on behalf of the ministries. Entra Eiendom, on the other hand, has the same opportunity as private operators to compete with others. So in this context, too, the business of Entra Eiendom is completely in line with the whole private sector. The government makes a choice when it writes that Entra Eiendom does not have to deal with special restrictions in terms of renting to the private market, and thus also the investment towards the private market. The choice means that the company will evolve even more in the future towards becoming a purely commercial operator. Furthermore, the Government correctly states that Entra Eiendom is not in any special position to obtain public rental contracts in competition with private property developers. So if a government agency needs office premises, it might as well choose a purely private supplier instead of Entra Eiendom. In this message, in my view, it is not a single good argument that Entra Eiendom should still be 100 pst. State oath. The company competes freely in the property market and shall not have any specific feature in competition with private operators in renting out premises to the public sector. In other words, it is a kind of private actor with commercial purpose and 100 pst. state ownership. On the other hand, it seems obvious to me that there are some good arguments against state ownership in Entra Eiendom – in one player in the property sector. The availability of equity and foreign capital, return expectations and the choice of development strategy have a major impact on the price of the property market and on the balance between supply and demand. Entra Eiendom has been one of the most offensive players in this market in recent years. We know that the property market is a relatively risky market, especially when times change. In my view, it is important that competition in the property market takes place on equal terms. There is, in fact, no level playing field when one of the actors has access to State funding, including government debt financing, which Entra Eiendom receives in the context of revised national budgets. Entra is therefore an obvious candidate for total or partial sales and full privatisation. In this context, I would like to refer to the proposal by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in the vote. Furthermore, the Committee's recommendation is that the matter be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e917	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e920	The Committee Bureau reaffirms once again the attitude of the bourgeois parties towards state ownership. If, contrary to assumption, these parties were to have a majority in the Grand Election on 14 September, this is the second last time we are dealing with Entra Eiendom in this Chamber. The last time we do this is when this company may be fully or partially privatised – sold out to private investors who will probably understand how to make money on the office needs of the state budgets. There is obviously little we can do with the ideological delusion of the bourgeois parties that private ownership is always better than public ownership. It's probably a show we're going to meet pretty often in time. Right now, I want to take this opportunity to point to the clear social responsibility of Entra Eiendom in a number of areas. In fact, the government parties believe that the State has a responsibility for the development of a more environmentally friendly construction industry, both as builder, property manager and tenant. Entra Eiendom's business should, in my opinion, be part of this driving role. We also have expectations of Entra Eiendom in the sense that the company should take care of and develop architecture and building practices, including the use of traditional Norwegian construction materials. The company also has significant cultural values in its property portfolio, including: state cultural historical interests. We refer here to Entra's protection plan for these properties and assume that the plan governs how the properties of Entra are managed in this area. We are particularly concerned with the social responsibility of state-owned enterprises. It implies that the economy and ethics cover all parts of the business, from the choice of partners and subcontractors to the pay and working conditions of employees. Entra operates in a competitive market. It is in the country's own interest to control such a large and important supplier. The company has created large amounts and paid significant amounts to the government in the form of dividends. The Communication of Ownership states that the State primarily has business objectives with the ownership of Entra. Social responsibility is and shall be a natural part of this. Yes, companies that take their social responsibility seriously create confidence in the market and attract good and competent employees. That's the way it gives a competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e935	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for a good job in this matter and a good post that we in the Advancement Party can mainly join. I just want to add a few comments to this matter. But first to the representative of Gullvåg, who points out that this is the opposition's attitude to state ownership. If you take one company in which the state is a partner, and let it form a basis for what the opposition's view of state ownership, you appear to be incredibly narrow-minded and narrow-sighted. It is possible that the representative of Gullvåg wants to appear like this, but at least it does not contribute to drawing a politically correct picture of the opposition's view of state ownership. There's the opposition divided. It has shown the ownership message, it has shown the case around Aker, and it has also shown the case around SAS and their need for capital. You have different views on the different things. Then I will not say anything about Gullvåg's posts, but rather go into it as the facts in the matter. I think the case rapporteur presented in an excellent way that there is no need here for a state-owned property company in fierce competition with private individuals. Now, in the real estate market, there is a lot of fluctuation. It's good times and it's bad times – it's different. And so is it that some people are struggling more than others, and the situation in these times, with access to capital, this is a challenge – except where the state is the joint owner. Then it is very easy to come to the state and ask for more money. So Entra Eiendom does that in connection with the revision, they ask for – and get – NOK 1 billion. It's not that simple for private companies, and some of them may risk going bankrupt. It should be very clear that you have to be very careful with private ownership. So I hope this is the next last time we treat Entra Eiendom, and that next time – until the fall – we wind up the state ownership of Entra.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e944	The President would like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that one should avoid mentioning his or her colleagues with the words «urgent» and «rapid».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e947	The representative of Gullvåg made a very good contribution. I do not think it appropriate to repeat everything he said. I only join one hundred percent in his wise considerations in this matter. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e952	The background for the creation of Entra Eiendom AS in its entirety was simply to prevent State Building from entering an unfortunate dual role, both as advisers in the selection of local and as providers of the same local. Hence, a state-owned company was created. And, in order to go to our conclusion, the Christian People's Party believes the same thing today as we meant when we dealt with the ownership message in 2007, that we want to give the Government the power to exchange Entra Eiendom AS at the hall of axles or by share issue, so that the state's owner can be reduced to a minimum of 34 pst. This allows us to bring professional private owners into the company's administration, while at the same time maintaining the state's objectives with ownership. On this basis, I would like to make our proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e959	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e962	From our point of view, this big message demonstrates that Entra has been a success for a long time. Entra currently represents a highly competent property management environment. It has contributed to significantly improving the efficiency of office use in the public sector. Furthermore, we have received a significant value creation and also a significant return on the government's hand. It is difficult to see that some of these elements represent a major problem for Norwegian society. Criticism comes from the opposition, and it comes primarily in the form of allegations of unequal conditions of competition. To that it is to say that Entra operates in a free market. They have no priority over contracts with the public. There's no binding at all. When they win terrain, it's because they're the best and offer the best product. Thus, Entra contributes to strengthening competition in the market and, according to all parameters, it should be positive. Furthermore, criticism has been raised about the existence of a property portfolio that also contains types of property other than that of state tenants. For our part, we believe that the Government argues well why a diversified property portfolio is important for the main purpose of the company. It is important to have areas to play on in order to offer a good product. It is also important to be present in a private market in order to be able to access the competences and challenges it presents. I am pleased that this communication and the Committee's comments almost eliminate some of the restrictions on the development of the company so far. Let us clarify, among other things: in the majority of the observations that renting to other public undertakings becomes part of a perfectly legitimate purpose. The opposition has a desire to sell Entra – preferably immediately. There are several proposals to this effect today. To that I would like to say, everyone sitting in this room has a responsibility to take care of the values of the community. Now, if you were to even choose to sell these properties, this is definitely not the time. There has been a significant decline in the value of property. I would consider it very unwise to dispose of property in today's property market. Furthermore, the question should be asked: why privatise the ownership of public buildings throughout the country and provide private capital with the return on the stable rental income that state or public tenants will always represent? I'm not of those who are convinced that 100 pst. State ownership of this company should be taken into account for the future. It will be part of a debate that we should constantly meet and take. But there's no reason to conclude the way the opposition is doing here today. I think it's an unwise policy to make the whole state a borrower and tenant without any ownership or management of the properties that you always depend on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e977	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e981	First, I would like to draw the attention of the representative, Ola Borten Moe, to the fact that what we are proposing in the setting is a power of full or partial sale in Entra Eiendom. Of course, there's nothing about the time. It's just a warrant. We have had that in Norwegian industrial policy for many years. No time indication is added, as Borten Moe claims. What I'm going to ask is this with a level playing field. I don't know what the representative Borten Moe can do about the property market. But I think most people see that property investment is very capital intensive, and that one of the most important things there is what kind of loan conditions you get if you're going to borrow money to build new office properties. Does not the representative Mr. Borten Moe see that the government's offering a loan to one player of DKK 1 billion in today's property market is highly distortive?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e988	Of course, the Great Government and the Great Government could have chosen not to contribute Entra to this capital. This may and probably would have resulted in a decrease in the rating and a substantial increase in the price of capital. There are costs that the government would have to take back in the form of higher rents, because it is essentially the state that owns these buildings in the next round. So this is very sensible policy to ensure a reduction in the cost of renting housing in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e993	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e996	I guess most things have been said in this case, from different points of view. I'm going to promise to be short, even though I can't promise to be as short as Ryan's representative was. But I'm not going to talk that much anymore. He pointed to an excellent post from Steinar Gullvåg. I would like to point out an excellent contribution and a good work from the case rapporteur, the representative of Torbjørn Hansen. I agree fully with what he said. I have a few comments. It is true that on several occasions the Riksrevision has asked whether the strategy and development of the company are in line with and within the framework that has been drawn up. I'm recording that the majority, after input from the Council of State, finds that this is in its greatest order. There are very few critical reflections about it. I agree with those who believe it is inappropriate for the State to be the sole owner of Entra Eiendom, as long as the company will compete with private operators and the operation will be entirely based on market and commercial conditions. It is a difficult balance for the public to operate in the private market. As several have been involved, it may be unfortunate, in part very unfortunate, to have a rich state in reverse in the case of equity. It may distort competition with others operating on the market. That was the short comments I had. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the proposals that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1007	I am tempted to take as a starting point what was said about the representative Gullvåg and the urgency of how to assess the issue of state and other public ownership. At least it will be useful – sometimes when one argues on the basis of more ideological principles, I often experience that the government and the red-green parties are accused of having some sort of ideological mantra and not seeing the reality of the matter – turning the issue around and asking: What is the background to want to privatize now? What are the good arguments for this today? Isn't it just as much related to ideological leadership – without me drawing it so far that I name it as obsession or its like? Going to the step of doing what the minority here is asking for, in this way, will require good reasons – at a time when we see the company operating in the way it does, and based on the benefits the owner has in this case. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade sees it as an important task to ensure that the management of Entra is in line with Storting’s assumptions – that is the basis for this case – and that is it, in my opinion, today. Entrea’s activities are highly focused on the main purpose, which is to meet the country’s needs for office premises. I also believe there is reason to conclude with – as several speakers have done before me – that the establishment of Entra as a separate company has been very successful. This is explained in more detail in the Storing Communication. Entra has shown a solid value development since its inception. Analysis shows that the company has reduced costs measured per year. square metres, increased revenue per square metre. square metres and reduced number of vacant premises in the portfolio. So to some points. The majority of the Committee considers that the development of properties and rentals to other public and private tenants should contribute to the fulfilment of Entra’s main objectives. This is in line with what is expressed in the Storing Communication, and it is important that this is clear. Entra was established to create greater flexibility in meeting the country’s needs for premises. The company should operate under normal conditions in a competitive market. The core business at the time of establishment was related to the rental of government and public tenants. As long as Entra is able to offer the state premises in the rental market, I do not see reason to place any concrete leads for whom the company will otherwise rent out. Firstly, private competitors in the rental market do not distinguish between properties of State tenants and those of other tenants. And secondly, by working towards a private market, Entra can gain useful experience that the state users can later benefit from – which the representative Borten Moe was also involved in. The main objective, however, is that as long as a State customer is willing to pay the rental that Entra may require, the State customers should have the first right. The use of property development funds by the company must also be used in such a way that Entra is best equipped over time to meet the needs of state enterprises for premises. In this context, I do not ignore the fact that it may be necessary from time to time to sell some properties with a dominant share of private tenants. As I was in place, the results of Entra so far show that the company has been competitive. My assessment is that the company has a good basis for continued profitable development, and that Entra's interest in providing office solutions to the state is anchored in a business logic. Government and other public tenants are attractive in the market because of their secure ability to pay. Entra, for its part, has a special competence to understand and meet the needs of this type of customer. I also want to show that Entra Eiendom is of course affected by the turmoil in the property market. In order to strengthen the company’s soundness, the Government has therefore proposed in the revised national budget that Entra should not pay dividends for 2008 and that a framework of DKK 1 billion should be allocated to the company in charge of loans. Such loans may be granted under market conditions. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade proposes in the Storing Communication that Entra should be able to develop further without special obligations, as long as the company is based on a clear and long-term business idea to serve the State market under competitive conditions. The State will serve the further development of Entra, in line with the needs of the public sector to rent premises. I also agree with the majority of the Committee that there is no need to impose additional restrictions on the type of property Entra engages in. The observation from the majority of the committee that it is important that Entra continues to be a full-time public limited liability company, of course, I fully agree. This is in line with the content of the message. State ownership ensures that the company operates according to its purpose. Many state institutions have Entra as their main provider of office facilities. It has a self-interest in the community – which several people have been in – and in the state to deal with such an important supplier, even if the company operates in a competitive market. Not least, it counts that the company is facing clear ownership expectations of contributing to the development of good solutions for public sector premises. I see it as natural that Entra continues as a full-time public limited liability company. Finally, it is no disadvantage that the name of the public – and community – helps channel some of the profits we see in a part of the market, into the community – to benefit the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1042	State Council Storberget called for a justification to reduce the state ownership of Entra. Then it's just to point out the elements I took up in my post: Entra is in full competition with private property companies, and Entra has no specialty with public tenants either. The rationale for reducing state ownership is that the State funding of one actor is distorting competition. Then I can just point to the answer from Ola Borten Moe on my line instead. He said that the state lends liable loans to Entra, so Entra will get cheaper funding. Entra doesn't have to increase the rental costs for public tenants, so they don't have to pay higher rent to Entra. But, as you know, Entra also rents out to private tenants. Does not the Council of State not see that lending $1 billion to Entra in the middle of the financial crisis, and when Entra then addresses the private property market, obviously distorts competition with private property developers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1049	As for Torbjørn Hansen's argument about privatisation, I did not see it as a justification, but as a description of the situation. The representatives of the red-green parties have just done in connection with the fact that one will hold these values in public ownership, precisely on rational arguments go up against the administration of the lease money that is, after all, needed in the public sector, but not least the need for sometimes to reap and absorb some of the profits in the public sector. There is no uneven thought that as owners we have the opportunity to reap this gain to the community. That must be good arguments. As far as debt financing is concerned, I believe that what is shown in the documents is that this should be addressed in the context of the revision and that this should be done in accordance with market principles. After all, there is no outsider in the market to collect loan capital from its owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1058	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1077	Only a brief comment on the subject: the private companies in the fishing industry have a major need for operational credits for the time being. It is therefore important that Innovation Norway, which receives 97.5 million. kr at the disposal, acts quickly, so that the credits get where they are going, and so that we meet the needs that arise, primarily in connection with cod fishing outside the Finnmark coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1082	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1095	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 3-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1105	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 15 May 2009 [[(see section 4.4). Deep. O. No 67):]] Remove the abbreviation of the basic pension for married/cohabiting pensioners so that everyone gets 100 pst. basic pension regardless of marital status. Increase pension benefits from 3.00 to 3.50 for unpaid care. the introduction of service provision for a defined obligation of protection; Establish a scheme in which the minimum pension is curtailed by 80 pst. of accrued-income pension. Increase the minimum pension to 2G, increasing the special supplement from 74 pst. [[low rate]] to 100 pst. [[high rate]] by G, and from 94 pst. to 100 pst. by G. introduce flexible withdrawals of pensions from the age of 62 and facilitate the combination of labour income and pensions without leading to a curtailment of pension payments. Ensure the practice of the coordination law, so that no loss is made of having earned pension funds in the social security system. [[negative power]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1145	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Presidential Member Carl I. Hagen proposal No. 2, by Mr Inge Wohnung, Member of the Presidency There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from Inge Wage. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: The following new third paragraph is added to Section 11: Parties not having members of the Control and Constitutional Committee may accede to the Committee for the consideration of a given constitutional or supervisory matter one week after notification to the Presidency of accession. The person dealing with a matter has the same rights and obligations as the members of the Committee in respect of the matter in question. The notification to the Presidency shall indicate the representative who will take part in the proceedings. If, after notification, the representative has been granted a permit, the group may submit a new notification that another member will take action.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1173	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from President Carl I. Hagen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Rules of Procedure of the Storting shall be amended as follows: The following new third paragraph is added to Section 11: Parties which do not have members of the Control and Constitutional Committee may, after notifying the Committee, accede to the Committee for the examination of a given constitutional or supervisory matter. The person concerned shall have the right to participate in the meetings, hearings and inspections of the Committee relating to the matter in question, but shall not be able to take part in voting or to submit observations or proposals in the Committee's position. The notification to the Committee shall indicate the representative who will take part in the examination. If, after notification, the representative has been granted a permit, the group may submit a new notification that another member of the group will take action.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1243	Here the Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1266	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they subsidly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1293	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1373	The Progress Party has announced that they wish to vote against the referenced changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1435	During the debate, Mr Sørfonn put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that responsibility for accounting law, including the statutory auditor, accounting law and accounting law, as well as company law, including the share law, the general share law and the company law, is brought together in one department in order to strengthen the importance of value creation and simplification.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1460	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 2, from Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision authorises the Government to sell in full or in part in Entra Eiendom AS.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1483	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is authorised to exchange Entra Eiendom AS at the sale of axles or by a share issue in such a way that its ownership interest is reduced to a minimum of 34 pst.» The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left will now support the proposal of the Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-04.ana.ud2113e1539	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
