ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e72	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e81	Odelstinget treats today Ot.prp. No 41 on the Law amending Law 17 July 1953 No. 29 on protection. The amendments consist mainly of a proposal for a new two-part session arrangement, as well as a amendment to the compulsory session obligation for women in line with the current male session obligation. The Government stresses that the general protection obligation should be maintained but adapted to a new period of time. The needs of the defence shall be taken into account throughout the process. Under the protection obligation, the defence is provided with a stable supply of well-suited personnel and contributes to the operational capability of the defence through the essential role of the protection obligation in the defence structure. In addition, the protection obligation also contributes to maintaining close links between defence and society. The protection obligation ensures a broad recruitment to the Defence, across social and cultural lines. The lack of guardians is important, not least in relation to the legitimacy of defence and the anchoring of society. The government has in St.prp. No 48 for 2007-2008, in order to improve the current selection and recruitment tools in the Defence through the further development of the session scheme. Ot. pp. No 41 adds up to a two-part session. Part I is a self-declaration, primarily web-based. Part I is intended to provide information on the health, assumptions and interests of individuals. This information will then form the basis for further selection and follow-up. Part II will be the selection of the most qualified to serve the protection obligation. The defence is in dialogue with the Data Protection Authority to facilitate this new two-part session scheme with regard to the satisfactory processing of personal sensitive data. The government has long been eager to get more women into the defense, without it having worked. In an attempt to increase the proportion of women in defence, the Government is now proposing to introduce a mandatory session also for women. The introduction of the mandatory session for women requires that women be subject to an obligation to write out in line with men. The Committee is integrated in the evaluation of Ot.prp. No 41, and support the proposal for a law amending Law 17 July 1953 No. 29 on protection. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that the general duty of protection for men should be maintained. The amendments to the above-mentioned law do not apply to the protection of women. It concerns only the proposal to legislate the obligation to print out to women. Simply explained, it means that if the woman who has been called to a session does not meet, there will be a violation of the law. This will make women and men equal in terms of the obligation to print. The Committee considers the session duty to be a means of getting more women to serve in the Defence. The total annual budget for women and men is about 60,000. Of this, the called number of first-time services will only be approx. 8 000. This means that competition to serve first-time services will be tougher and that the chosen soldiers will be better because of greater competition. This will benefit the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e113	The next speaker is Signe Eye. Then Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e116	By imposing a mandatory session for women, as the Storting will today go in for, when we're the whole youth school with information about the defense, not just the one half. This I hope will increase the proportion of women in Defense. The Government also wants to improve the session scheme itself and will introduce a two-part session scheme. Part I implies that the printing agent must complete a self-declaration, primarily on-line, without physical presence. It is intended to provide information on the health, assumptions and interests of individuals. The aim is to use Part I as a basis for further selection and follow-up. Part II will involve a detailed selection of persons considered to be most qualified for service meeting for a qualitative session at one of the Defence Sessions. In this way, we can reach the women and men who are most motivated and fit to serve in Defence, and use the resources more focused. We also want to improve the quality of the session day itself. The introduction of the mandatory session for women requires that the obligation to print out under the protective obligation law be made gender neutral. The obligation to discharge implies obligations to be allowed to be integrated into the principal role of the Swedish Defence Agency and to be classified in order to determine the merit of service in the Defence. Finally, the legislative proposal equates men and women with the obligation to print out, but the proposal does not impose a duty of protection on women. I am both proud and pleased that the Storting is now in favour of introducing a mandatory session for women. So far, it has been up to the individual woman whether she wants to meet at the session or not. I hope that the amendments to the protective duty law will help to strengthen the recruitment of women to the Defence Service, because it is important for both sexes to be recruited. The obligation to sit is a step on the road to compulsory protection. I hope the session duty will help to increase the interest and proportion of women in Defense. Several women in Defense will once again contribute to maintaining the legitimacy of the duty of protection in the people, and will strengthen the links between women and Defence. In particular, increased female participation will contribute to enriching the organisation because women affect the structures, methods, training and attitudes of the defence. Today, the defense has female officers of all ages and degrees. In theory, there are no military positions women do not have access to, and Norway is among the few in the Western world that allow women in conflict. Nevertheless, at present there is too low a proportion of women associated with the Defense, only 7-8 pst. Today, the Committee delivers a unanimous opinion on the mandatory session of women. Three to four years ago, it wasn't like that. Many parties in this hall were actually opponents of such a change. But this has matured over the last growing-up period, and today everyone is too. That there is a need for more women in the defence sector also shows the media release of the last week on UN Resolution 1325, which we have adopted in the United Kingdom, and which commits us to a great deal. With more soldiers of both sexes, I would argue that you can avoid episodes like what happened in Afghanistan. By imposing a mandatory session for women, we are taking a new step towards a larger proportion of women in the Defence Sector, which in turn will provide Norway with an even more modern and attractive organisation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e137	As the representative Heikki Holmås has signed up, the President will make a little correction. The next speaker is Heikki Holmås – then Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e140	As an old soldier's trust vote for the Marine Protectors, I'm very happy to be able to participate in these changes in the law, which means that we get a much wider session, where women too are drawn to a much greater degree than before. I think there's two major reasons why this is very good. One is that it's good for the defense, because choosing protection becomes a real alternative for many more women, and I think that's good. There's no doubt that it makes a good part of our best people of youth able to go in and do first-time service in a different way than before. That's a good thing for the Defense, because they get more good people to choose from. The second, which is two-part, is that one strengthens democracy in two different ways. Firstly, one strengthens the democratic anchoring. I have no doubt that, for example, getting into a police station and seeing that there are both men and women there, to a very different degree than before, making both sexes feel that this is neutral and is something that reflects their interests differently than before. There is no doubt that one gets several women into the defense by conducting the session in this way, making the defense not exclusively male, but becoming something that both men and women identify themselves with much stronger. I note this when I am at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. There may well be no arenas in the international context in which I participate, which are as extremely human-dominated as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is, and I think it is precisely that Norway is going through and making sure to draw with women and have clear objectives of moving with women to a greater extent, actually acts as an inspiration for other politicians elsewhere who look to Norway to try to do the same: to attract women more closely in defence. But it also works democratizing in that way that there will be a lower threshold for women to participate in the defence debate, which is one of the debates that is very humane. I think that's good for both of these reasons. The second part that is democratizing is that there is no doubt that the military and defence are one of the two fields in Norway that own the state monopoly of power. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of power attached to military forces, to the right to exercise violence – even if we want it to be as small as possible. Then it's important that this power is equally distributed between the sexes, and it's important to bring women forward in positions within the defense, and there's nothing better than to make sure that the threshold is lowered just to recruit women into the defense. That's why I think this is very good. I am a member of a party that wants to go even further in the next round – by changing the duty of protection to become even wider, not only covers 8 000 but the whole year's budget, and also by ensuring that a mandatory duty of protection for both women and men is imposed – more as a community service. In this context, the second time I'm on the pulpit today, we're more in agreement with the Christian People's Party. I think that's very all right, because I think that debate is going to go on in the time that's coming. But we have come this far – this is the first time, this is something we can agree on so far. I think that if we had stood here 30 years ago and discussed whether we should have a session for women, I think quite a lot of people would have thought of it as completely unimaginable. In this area, too, society and equality are moving forward. I'm glad. Therefore, congratulations to all those who have participated in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e153	Since we are not in the committee, I am told that the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of the proposals for amendments to the protective duty law, so that the two-part session can be introduced and the obligation to protect women can be imposed. We are excited about how the two-part session will work, assuming that the development and experience of the new system are closely followed. As far as the obligation to sit for women is concerned, we believe that it is an important measure to provide girls with insight into the educational and professional possibilities of the proposal. The Christian People's Party has long been concerned that the session for women should be made mandatory, so that even more girls were given the opportunity to discover the opportunities that actually exist in the Defense, including for girls. In addition, we believe and hope that the obligation to sit will increase the proportion of women in Defense, because it is necessary. Fortunately, a part has happened on this front in the last few years. The defense now has several capable women, including female officers of all ages and at different degrees. It's moving forward, but the proportion of women is not high enough in the Christian People's Party's opinion. We can ask the question: why is it so important to increase the proportion of women in defense? Yes, it's on equivalency and equality. Defence is an important part of society, and women make up a large part of the same society. Then it's quite natural for women to come. The defence needs competence and should pick out its compulsory employees and recruit them from the entire population and not just from parts of it. Besides, I think it's an important point that defense needs women's competence in international operations. Women and children are often victims of conflict. There is a great difference in the possibilities of contact and trust building between a male soldier and a woman in Afghanistan, in relation to the possibilities of communication and trust that could become between a female soldier and a woman in the same country. However, women's needs also apply to the Defense at home. The defence will meet the whole community, both sexes must be represented, even within the different defence sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e160	The left is not in the committee, so it's natural to mark what we mean. What's happening today is a position that the Left has had this whole period, that we're going to have a mandatory session for women. But the Left is not too general a duty to protect women. There's someone who wants it in the direction of a community service. The obligation of protection is not a general social service. We are deeply concerned also for another reason, namely that we risk the success of those who are actually against the duty of protection and want to erode it towards building a professional defence. The position of the left is perfectly clear, and I need to repeat it here now – not because there is a fight about it in the hall, but I have seen too many silent struggles in different parts of my life. I want to be very precise: the duty of protection, including the duty of the session that hopefully will give us many more capable women in the defense, we must have, both to recruit people to departments based on protection, and on that basis also to recruit people for employment. That's both of them. I would like to say it very strongly here, that I am deeply concerned, after we put down the Home Protection Training on Guards, to see how large parts of Home Protection are not practiced. There is a risk of undermining the duty of protection, loss of protection in areas of the pig-grown country. Finally, you get those that come from the largest cities, those that are then produced within the educational institutions you have. On behalf of the Left, I would like to point out that ensuring a duty of protection means using it where we are going – it is not contrary to the units we are going to have. But it also means having a serious protection system. I also need to say the following because the head of defense needed to have a pass in the media to the Vice President of the Left: around our national meeting, Ola Elvestuen went out and did something like I did the time we had the long-term plan for treatment here last year, that is, to say that it was the Left's goal, beyond the current four-year period, to get a new earned battalion to strengthen the Telemark battalion, a kind of Alta battalion. I noticed that the Chief of Defense commented on it as a strange play in national meetings. Even I would have seen it so that it doesn't get rid of people who want to fight with enthusiasm for more military units in this country. Norway is a very peaceful country. I had assumed that one would follow Luther's catechism and take his next in the best sense and interpret this as it was. It was interpreted as if you were going to have a diffuse protective force in North Norway. On the contrary, it was presented as it was supposed to be, namely to strengthen the crews we have in the world, on which I know there is considerable wear and tear. I'm going to pick out the Great Council chair because that's where you have to report it. I assume that the Minister of Defence thinks it is good that defence is increasing in different parties, and that it increases the strength of the whole of the Great Britain and of the people. Because it's not like this in a country like ours, where it's easier to get money for well-being, that it's just as easy to get money for something as long-term as investing in Defense. Building such a willingness to defend, especially with the welfare expectations and the entire social development that we have in our country, is important. Just in that context, I also fully agree with the representative Heikki Holmås that having a session duty for women, reinforces the defense, with the assumptions I have now said, in the population. It reinforces the defence of recruiting capable people, and it enhances the skills we have at our disposal. I'm also glad that we have women in high positions in the Defence that stand out as good role models. I also hope that what happens now will lead to more. I'm not so sure that women are always best in all parts of the world, but I think it will in any case be an enrichment for our defense wherever the service should be. I'm assuming that if you have a favor out there, you'll also have a training that is proportionate to the tasks you're going to have, which makes this as real as it should be. I chose to use this post not only to say what is obvious, namely to say that I agree with the setting, but also to say something general about the duty of protection, and then to make my faint wonder that it does not arouse a certain enthusiasm that there comes spontaneous and unexpected defence from the team where it usually does not come. But it is possible that one no longer accepts such with enthusiasm. Even I am in so many contexts across party boundaries, where I think fighting for the will to defend is a matter in itself. I feel that what is happening today, both in the cultural matter we had and also in this duty of protection we now have with the duty of women to sit down, is to strengthen the anchoring of defence in our time and in a modern society. Therefore, the Left votes for the current setting, with joy and strong conviction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e179	The duty of citizens to protect their homeland is, for me, an equally self-written part of Norwegian democracy as the right to participate in the public debate. I am pleased to note that the development of the duty of protection is a topic that engages a great many in the Norwegian population, and that the duty of protection also has a great deal of upsurge in the population. I am pleased with the commitment that is also shown here in the Chamber of Defense. It is quite true that the debate is not always very active, but I am very pleased with the commitment that is, and that has been through several things today. As has been said here, the Government has proposed to make changes to the Protection Obligations Act, introduce session obligations for women and two-part session arrangements. By imposing a mandatory session for women, we are implementing a major and important social reform. In fact, there have been no more than a few years since we introduced a voluntary session for women – that was also in this period. So now we're going a significant step further. I have a clear goal, which is also expressed from others here, of recruiting more women to the defense. We are actively and specifically working to increase the proportion. It is absolutely right that it will give us a better defence, it will make us a modern organization, and it will make us better able to do the tasks we have to do – not least, as the representative Sahl is involved in, international operations, where it is absolutely necessary to comply with UN Resolution 1325 that we get more women out of international service. If we are to get more women into international service, we must recruit them through duty and command school. I am concerned that we should improve the Defence Selection and Recruitment Tool, so that more men and women are motivated to serve first-time service. Because it's not just to introduce a law, you have to actually do a lot of things to succeed in implementing it. The Government is committed to maintaining the obligation of protection. I have a great deal of understanding that more can be sought for protection, but it has always been a prerequisite for a meaningful service, and it needs to be adapted to the needs of the defence. I also want to stress that this is something we constantly focus on. What's the need? What would be right to recruit at any time? Luckily, when we have a system, we can scale up if it turns out that there was a need for it, also what the representative Dørum is concerned about, namely recruitment to the Home Office. The protection obligation ensures a broad recruitment of the Defence across social and cultural lines. This diversity is important, not least in relation to the legitimacy and anchoring of defence in society. I agree with the Committee that it is important to carry out good information and recruitment activities in order to ensure such anchoring of the population. I am also fully convinced that the way we recruit makes us have a good defence in Norway, and that we have soldiers who enjoy great respect precisely because they represent the entire population. The introduction of the session obligation for women and the two-way sharing of the session are based on existing arrangements and procedures for the session. It is expected that the defence will need to develop new data tools for the implementation of Part I of the session. For the current financial year, the costs of organising an increase in the number of members of the session and the increase in the number of women in the session are covered by the given defence appropriations. The government will return to the economic consequences of the bill for the next financial year. It is proposed that the session obligations for women and the other legislative changes can enter into force from 2010. I am very pleased that the Defence Committee, and also the other parties on the Stortinget, have, by this vote together, been behind the bill that we have presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e200	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 703]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e217	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e226	As rapporteur, I would like to refer to the examination of case No. 6 in the Storting where we treated St.meld. No 34, «From protective duty to veteran». There was also a setting for Ot.prp. No 67, which we now have under consideration, debated. There are some people who have minority proposals that they need to address during the debate here, but this should be a contribution to making this evening a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e233	Odelstinget treats today Ot.prp. No 67, on the Law amending the Law of 2 July 2004 No 59 on Defence personnel, strengthening the rights of veterans following international operations. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen the rights and the protection of veterans after international operations. The proposal is based mainly on the report of an inter-ministerial working group, the report on financial rights in the event of personal injury, and on a report on the responsibility of the defence as an employer towards the veterans and their rights. A new paragraph is proposed in the Defence Personnel Act on objective liability for personal injury during international operations. After amendment of the law, the State shall, irrespective of its guilt, replace losses incurred by civil or military personnel due to injury or disease caused by service in international operations. In the past, the state has, through actions – or rather a lack of action – treated groups such as the military sailors and the pioneers in the North Sea very badly. It took too much time for the state to take hold of the rights of the military sailors. For divers, claims are still settled with the individual. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is now promoting changes in the Defence Personnel Act, so that veterans from international operations are compensated for damage caused during foreign missions by the State. Veterinary organisations have long fought for the necessary legal remedies to enable veterans to receive satisfactory medical and replacement treatment. The government adds differentiated claims, depending on the years in which the service and damage occurred. This discrepancy will be opposed to the Advance Party. We want good protection for our civil and military personnel after the end of service. That is why we see no difference between those who have served previously, those who serve now, or those who will serve later. The Progress Party will grant the same rights and follow-up to all those who have taken part in a foreign operation, irrespective of the time of service. The defense has a great responsibility to follow up the veterans even after the end of the service. The government's proposal for a one-year follow-up of personnel from international operations considers the Progress Party to be far too short. The Progress Party agrees with those organisations that required five years of follow-up in the consultation round and proposes five years of follow-up obligations under Section 12a of the Defence Personnel Act. The Government adds to a special compensation scheme from 1978 until the law enters into force in 2010. This is the Progress Party's strong opponents, and we propose that those who served from 1978 be given the same rights as the Government proposes to apply from 2010. In relation to Norway’s size, we send many out to international operations. In total it has been sent about. 120,000 since 1947. Most of those who have participated and are still participating are young men and women of their best age. The tasks have been and are partly very demanding and dangerous. Some have received and will get lasting but. This involves both physical and mental damage. In worst cases, a foreign residence can end in death. Fortunately, this does not happen often, but the dangers are present in most operations. With this as a hindrance, it is difficult to understand that the Government adds up to a differentiated maximum amount of compensation, depending on the years in which the service was performed. The Progress Party strongly disagrees with the Government at this point and proposes the establishment of a system of maximum compensation of 65 G at 100 p.m. long-term acquisition disability. The substitution is proposed to be reduced proportionately with the resuscitation capacity. Although the Progress Party is promoting other proposals in this matter than the Government, we will nevertheless give the Government credit for the work covered by the bill. Finally, I would like to address the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 from the Progress Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e261	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e264	I just want to briefly refer to our remarks in the vote, where we present our views on the Right, and address the Right proposal, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e269	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e272	I will just briefly express the vote of the Christian People's Party in this matter. We took the debate in the previous round. After listening to the hearing in both cases, the Christian People's Party has decided that we will vote against Section 12(a) and vote in favour of proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. At the same time, we will vote against Section 19, which sets a distinction in 2010 with regard to the follow-up of soldiers before and after. At the same time, I would like to stress that the intention behind this proposition is good and important: a desire to strengthen the rights and liability of veterans after international operations. We would like to commend the proposal to amend the provisions of the Defence Personnel Act to clarify the responsibility of Defence for veterans before, during and after the end of service in international operations. But the Christian People's Party does not agree that the defence's follow-up will only last for one year, nor do we agree that the objective liability should not apply to those who serve before 2010. That is why the Christian People's Party is voting against the two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e283	We have had the debate before. I also think it is good that we have had these changes to the law on the table. But it's like there's a difference of opinion here, and it's also expressed in the left's vote. We are of the opinion – like the Government and the Party Right – that we will support Section 12, first and second paragraphs. We believe that one year should be good, given that we are following the assumptions made by the Left in the debate earlier today, namely that the defence is sitting in the driver's seat in such a way as to create good relations with the civil auxiliaries on the health side or where it is. That's the prerequisite for this to work, but I don't believe that you don't think so in the government. I'm just repeating a well-meaning, practical advice I've given before. In terms of objective compensation, we are pleased that that responsibility is known and implemented. We believe for the sake of thinking about veterans that there should not be a distinction, so that 65 G should apply to all. In practice, it means that the proposals No. 2 and 3 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and They're going to the Storting. In order to be neat in relation to what I mean, I can do nothing but vote against – as the representative Sahl of the Christian People's Party also said – ‘§ 19 new third paragraph shall be replaced by:’, which is just going on the 65 G boundary. I guess, since no one from the Right and the Advance Party has said anything else, we obviously mean the same thing, that we're going to have 65 G without any distinction. To sum up, we've gone some important steps further, and I'm not going to make the difference of opinion any different than leaving it the way it is. I think it's wise to find one arrangement for the sake of everyone affected by this. But it would be totally wrong for me – just as the representative Skumsvoll said – not to acknowledge that we are now moving forward some important steps. I also agree with what the Council of State said before today, that we are rusting up in many ways. But that should not conflict with the fact that we are going to do as good as possible. With these comments, I have prepared the left's vote when we get that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e300	The examination of this bill is a milestone in a long process towards strengthening the rights of veterans following international operations. Until this government put extra focus on the veterans in 2006, in my view, there was too little focus on the rights of the veterans, and it became important for me to put extra emphasis on the care of those who came home after the end of the service. As part of the strengthening of the rights of the veterans, I also propose a statutory right to follow up from the Defense for one year. Our intention behind the proposal for a year's psychological, psychological and other follow-up from the Defense is to ensure that everyone is given the opportunity to follow closely on the Defence's side after returning. A minority in the Committee has proposed that the follow-up obligation should be imposed five years after the end of the service. The government’s proposal for a one-year follow-up obligation is based on recommendations from the competent authority of the Defence Agency, which concludes at best professional judgement that one year will be sufficient. The health of the defence states that most service-related mental damage will have manifested itself within this timeframe, while there is also a natural time frame in relation to being able to make a proper diagnosis in connection with subsequent specialist treatment. Although the follow-up obligation is proposed for one year, I would like to stress that it will at the same time be stipulated that follow-up beyond this one year will be characterised by great flexibility. No veteran shall experience standing without an offer, or shall be rejected by the Defence. In addition, the Government proposes to strengthen the protection of the group’s compensation by legislating an objective liability under the Defence Personnel Act for damage or disease arising from service in international operations. With the amendments proposed, our soldiers will have a good and predictable protection against damages. The Ministry of Defence has received an increasing number of claims from former participants in international psychological damage operations. These are requirements that fall outside the current protection against occupational injury. It has been important for me in the process of strengthening the rights of the veterans to also meet these veterans. I believe that the proposed solution of a separate compensation scheme is a better-suited scheme for this group – that is, for the old cases – involving personnel back to 1978, than the objective liability bill. I would also like to remind you that, from 1 January 2005, there was a general right of appeal for international operations. It also suggests that a distinction is made between the older claims and the protection of claims in the future in time. The scheme is also proposed to be established at a level which, in the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, will replace the average financial loss for this injured group. Although there is a somewhat different opinion in the committee related to the concrete proposals of the Government, I am pleased that a joint committee expresses their great satisfaction at the fact that the Government has promoted a proposition that strengthens the rights and the protection of veterans after international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e317	In the consultation round on this matter, the Veteran organisations – I believe everyone without exception – expressed that they were very sceptical of having only one year's follow-up of psychiatric and psychological assistance from the Defense. When it was said earlier in the debate tonight at the main hall that you were going to be flexible, you didn't have to look at a year as an absolute limit, we think the government could agree to five years in order not to go against the veteran organisations. It is clear that support from the Defence and the help they can get in this area is what they want more than anything else. So I hope you can at least consider extending the flexibility very far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e322	As I also said in my post, we should of course be flexible in relation to not looking at one year's follow-up as a date stamp. At the same time, when we have fallen down to one year's follow-up, it is because this is a recommended period of time from the health of the defense, where it is said that we are able to diagnose within one year and follow-up also in relation to specialist health services. I would also say that with as many soldiers as we have out every year now in international service, there are a number of soldiers to follow up, and it is important that the defense does so in a good way. And then it's also important to think that the defense personnel are part of the rest of the community, and they're also going to be entitled to specialist health care. However, it should also be the task of the defence to help further with treatment if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e329	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e334	As stated, Norway has contributed soldiers to foreign missions over many decades. Unfortunately, our veterans have not received the necessary follow-up in the matter of sensitising. Post-traumatic stress is a psychological trauma experienced by too many people, with the consequences for the individual and for the relatives. Even if you are more selective today in the selection of teams, we will never be able to opt out of some major psychological sensitivities. It has a price to have soldiers abroad, and when we have it, we have a duty to care for them in a worthy way. The Minister of Defence said in his speech earlier today that, based on an overall assessment, it ended up that the Government was in favour of two separate solutions. Then I have to ask the Minister: What were the assessments that came after – and from whom – that went to the degrees across the principle of the Ministry of Defence's own consultation note on a system supported by all the other hearing bodies, including most of the tone-setting department, including the Justice Department's law department? The submission obligation argument is completely incorrect. It was introduced in 2005, and then the point of intersection must be 2005 and not 2010, as proposed by the Government. The Progress Party wants a system of payment of a maximum of 65 G at 100 pst. long-term acquisition disability. I have to ask the Minister: has the government calculated what 35 G will give a 23-year-old girl who is now in Afghanistan, whether she is following normal life and injuries with psychological damage? As a 32-year-old, she will have earned a supplementary pension of NOK 15 700 in addition to the very naughty payments of the population. Does the Minister of Defense think this is a worthy way to take care of this girl and all our other veterans abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e345	From 2006, we have been working to strengthen the rights of veterans and to make better arrangements for the veterans. Now that we're implementing this change in the law – usually we're making changes to the law in the future in time, and so are we doing with this law, then we're taking an objective responsibility in the future, and that's going to apply from 2010, and then we're clearing up old cases. We're actually cleaning up things that are over 30 years old. There have been many governments in these 30 years that could have taken a thank-you to the veterans, but I record that it happened from the beginning of 2006. We've spent this time getting to a good order. When we have stated that we take the old matters with a separate compensation scheme, it is in the light of the matters that have been before. It's also based on the fact that we have to look at this completely in relation to other groups as well. But we're taking a big responsibility for the veterans, there's no doubt about that. And there's no doubt that those we're sending out, we're going to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e352	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 705]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e369	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed to the Council of State for up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e382	Today, we must take the necessary legislative decisions to give municipalities a holistic responsibility for the kindergarten sector. This year we have introduced the right to babysitting for everyone who wants it. Once we have achieved full needs coverage, funding should be transferred to the municipalities. In the proposal, the Government proposes that this be done from 2011. Today’s legislative acts provide the necessary guidance for the careful financing of the non-municipal part of the kindergarten sector. In the setting, the proposed changes to Section 8 on the relationship between state and municipal council members and Section 14 on municipal council members are proposed. The Committee suggests that the municipalities should be financed by approved non-municipal kindergartens. In addition, the Committee proposes to maintain the legal status of today when it applies to the equivalent treatment of municipal and approved non-municipal kindergartens in relation to public appeals. In addition, the Committee announces a step-up from 2010, with a view to completing the sector’s financing over a maximum of five years. It's very nice to be able to present such a stepping-up plan. Equal treatment is already regulated in § 14 of today's law. However, due to differences in the cost picture between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens, equal treatment has not been practised so far, except in a few of the country's municipalities. The majority in the decision stipulate that equivalent treatment should be defined as ensuring that the municipality provides cost coverage in all approved kindergartens. I would also like to stress the importance that we now legalise quarterly advance payments of municipal contributions. This will help to ensure that operations are streamlined and more liquidityd for the non-municipal kindergartens. All these changes are important for non-communal kindergartens to deliver a good childcare provision to young people and for adding to them good pay and working conditions. We know from several studies that this is the case already today, that they are added are competent and dedicated, and that parents with children in non-municipal kindergartens are very happy with the offer. But we also know that some non-municipal kindergartens are struggling financially. With this setting we try to make some positive progress. It's thanks to the non-communal kindergartens that we have as good babysitting as we have today. More than half of the kids in kindergarten go to a non-municipal kindergarten, which is a strength for the sector's shortage. The final points in the lack of alternative childcare services are found in the non-municipal part of the sector. In order to allow municipalities to manage the kindergarten sector in a holistic manner, it is necessary to give municipalities free discretion in relation to whether to finance non-municipal kindergartens established after the sector is financed. This to my great amazement has been criticized by the opposition. If the freedom of establishment were to be as it is today, it would facilitate chaos around the municipality of Norway. This would mean that municipalities would have to accept over-establishment of kindergartens, and thus that the municipality would have to spend more money on kindergartens than necessary, or that all kindergartens in the municipality would be underfunded – with poor quality as a result. It is important that it is taken care of for approved non-municipal kindergartens that the municipality has free discretion in the financing issue after framework financing. The alternative proposed by the opposition is, in my opinion, alarmingly poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e399	We're about to break the finish line, in a short time we'll be in the harbour with full babysitting. We thus have the greatest welfare reform in place in recent times. The red-green government has built kindergartens so that the brakes and clothes can hold. About 97 pst. of the children who start school in the fall have gone to kindergarten. From being a good thing for the few, kindergarten has become an offer to the large majority of children between one and six years of age. In 1975, 7 pst. of the children a nursery place. Today, 87 pst. of the whole age group one to five years in kindergarten. The 2003 and subsequent massive expansion of kindergartens is a major reform that means a great deal to young children’s parents. Newly-baked parents are now free to lose their night sleep because of the lack of childcare facilities for the small person. There is no small reform that has been implemented. Since 2003, more than 60,000 children have been accommodated in kindergarten. Today, we spend SEK 13.8 billion more on kindergartens than we did in 2003. This implies an increase of 170 pst. At the same time as the massive expansion, the price of kindergarten has been reduced. We have introduced a maximum price of NOK 2 330. In municipal kindergartens, the price of a kindergarten is reduced by 37 p.p., while in private kindergartens, the price is almost halved. These price reductions have resulted in parents now able to afford to have their children in kindergarten, which has led to a significantly higher demand for kindergarten than we oversee in 2003. The nursery arrangement is not yet in place. Now it remains to ensure that private kindergartens receive funding as well as municipal ones. It was one of the prerequisites of the kindergarten agreement, namely that we should have an equivalent treatment for the municipal and private kindergartens. Telemark research demonstrated in its January report that employees in private kindergartens have lower wages and pension conditions than employees in municipal kindergartens. In addition, children receive a lower offer because there are fewer adults compared to children in private kindergartens. This report and the fact that we have already received a financial clarification that the Government will propose a phased phase-in of equivalent treatment of municipal and private kindergartens in the 2010 budget mean that the government parties in the UK have chosen to change the Government's proposal. We have chosen to amend the bill, so that equivalent treatment is included in the new legal provision, and that there should still be national regulations that provide for the understanding of equivalent treatment. In this way, we ensure that private kindergartens, both legal and economic, are guaranteed equivalent treatment with municipal kindergartens. The phase-in phase-in will take place from January 2010 and will be completed within five years. At the same time, we maintain the ambition for kindergartens to enter the municipal framework transfer from 2011. We also assume that there should still be earmarked state subsidies until full child-care coverage is achieved. By the fact that the municipalities are now legally obliged to give to all parents who want to do so, a nursery place, the government parties believe that it is important that the municipalities are given full responsibility for the sector. We believe that municipalities will have a strong interest in ensuring balanced development and thus a more efficient use of economic resources. In a fully developed sector, the red-green parties believe that it is both important and right that municipalities have control over the start-ups. Municipalities must have the power to govern, so as to avoid over-establishment. Free municipal discretion ensures that municipalities are not obliged to finance kindergartens that will just lead to over-establishment. Many unoccupied kindergartens will be expensive and little efficient use of resources. This may also mean that existing kindergartens have to operate with free capacity. Economically, this will be the worst for private kindergartens, and the consequences for them can be closure. As kindergarten services have been expanded and prices have fallen sharply, more and more parents have asked for nursery facilities. In a situation where the great majority chooses to have the very least of their children in kindergarten, I think we should guard ourselves well to bring the moral index finger. Despite a unanimous increase in support of the massive kindergarten expansion, the opposition, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, continues to moralize over the use of kindergarten for the smallest. Through their rhetoric that children live their entire childhood in an institution, and that they sow uncertainty as to whether it is good for children under the age of three to be in kindergarten, they create the impression that this is a big social experiment. What is the motive of the right hand side? Do they regret joining the kindergarten arrangement, or do they disapprove of parents ’ choice? For the Workers' Party, it is now important not to give your parents a bad conscience or, above all, a bad conscience – because that is what this is about. Our task now is to ensure high-quality childcare facilities and at the same time to accept that when parents are given the opportunity to choose, most of them choose kindergartens rather than other care solutions. The working party sees kindergarten as an important social arena and an important learning arena. A new research report from the Ministry of Knowledge and the Institute of Public Health shows that children aged 18–36 months who go to kindergarten have a better language. Particularly large are the estimates for minority children and for children with low-educated parents. Other Norwegian and international research say the same. Children aged 18 months to 3 years can have a high and positive benefit from kindergarten if quality is good. In addition, the Divisional Committee concludes that bets on kindergartens are the most important medicine to reduce social differences later in life. Even the OECD believes that the Norwegian nursery is important in order to smooth distinctions among Norwegian children. After five years of massive expansion of kindergartens, we are now moving into a new phase. We are now focusing on the quality of kindergartens, and tonight's decision to ensure that half of the children in private kindergartens receive equal funding as children in municipal kindergartens will be an important contribution to ensuring the quality of kindergartens in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e440	The party of progress is of the opinion that the family is one of the most important pillars of today's society. It is our opinion that an active and proper family policy will bring significant social benefits both in the short and long term. It is very important to give families considerable freedom in everyday life, freedom of choice and the right to have their own family situation. The Progress Party will strongly warn against those who try to weaken the role of parents in relation to children, including the desire of some politicians to make kindergartens mandatory. The public can never fully replace parents in creating safe frameworks and belongings for children. We would therefore strongly warn against the increasing number of family tasks being passed on to the state or other public bodies. The Progress Party will also point out that the Government should launch an evaluation of the childcare provision, while at the same time considering the consequences of very small children spending a lot of time in kindergarten. Is it so that at least it might be good to be home a little longer with Mom or Dad, and should we perhaps facilitate this by improving the cash support model? The Progress Party will note that, in order to give parents full freedom of choice, various measures will have to be taken to ensure full childcare coverage. When we talk about full babysitting, we define it as space for anyone who wants it, at a price they can afford. In addition, it is necessary to facilitate a market that provides educational options through diversity. The compromise adopted by the Stortinge in its time on kindergartens, if properly followed up, could provide a basis for full childcare and lower parental pay. The effective non-discrimination of public and private kindergartens ensures the development of multiple places, lower costs and educational options. It is precisely a genuine non-discrimination that provides a cost-effective and viable childcare sector. The party believes that the best non-discrimination system is a state price model, where the individual kindergarten is paid by the state per year. children — of course corrected for some children with special needs, or in the event of disability. It may also be assessed whether there should be a separate basic grant in order to ensure minimum childcare facilities. With real non-discrimination, all kindergartens will be motivated to operate cost-effectively, while focusing on the quality of the service. I notice that the Progress Party is alone in its basic vision, and that the other parties believe that the municipalities should be interconnected between the state and kindergarten. The Progress Party has therefore also been a constructive contributor to the Kindergarten Agreement and the Kindergarten Agreement in order to ensure development, low price, freedom of choice, equal treatment and quality. The party notes that, while the previous government – Bondevik II – was talking about phasing in the non-discrimination of public and private kindergartens, the current government has stopped talking about non-discrimination, until the press conference on 27 May, when it suddenly became the subject of genuine non-discrimination, and this was to be phased in over a period of time. I don't trust the government parties' promises in this field. I think it's a pure election campaign bluff to rock some of the voices among parents and employees in private kindergartens. I think a lot of people will see through them. When you're against equal treatment for almost four years, and then claim that you're too right before a big shot, it's not credible. For a long time, there has been discrimination between local and private places and differences in how municipalities calculate grants for private places. This has created considerable uncertainty and economic challenges for private kindergartens. In addition, the majority of the parties will have a legislative formula that will make it up to the changing majority of local authorities to decide whether to start new private kindergartens. This policy has led to the need for private kindergartens to shut down their business or to the expansion of fewer new sites. This has contributed to the lack of places that are still in a few municipalities. Finally, some brief comments on the previous articles. In particular, I noted with satisfaction the claim made by Mr Trond Lode that this non-discrimination should be phased in over five years. I have to say that more non-obligatory is it hardly possible to stay in politics. Otherwise I also noticed his claim that freedom of establishment would lead to chaos. Now we know that the Center Party has been moving strongly to the left in recent years, but that freedom of establishment within a market leads to chaos, I thought in and of itself it was just those that Red, and similar parties, that were in charge. Nor will it lead to, as the representative Lode said, that the municipalities will spend more money. There won't be any more children even if it becomes a free right of establishment, and even the non-socialist parties have intended to pay some private kindergartens for children who don't exist. It's relatively obvious. You shouldn't from this pulpit characterize colleagues in this room, but as I understand it, there are obviously some mathematical skills lacking in the majority parties. In the case of the representative Gjul, she made a flaming post, as she used to in matters like this. What neither she nor the representative Lode was interested in when, among other things, praised private kindergartens are the fact that they go to elections with a party that has programmed that they are opponents of private kindergartens. It may be a challenge that they have to solve if they are to have a majority after future elections, but fortunately that is not a great chance. With this I address the suggestions that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e474	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e477	After pondering the Government's proposal for almost one year, the government parties in Stortinget – fortunately, I am told – have come to the conclusion that this was a very bad proposal, which in itself did not take all the time for us others to find out. They have met a bit on the road furious – as I say is justified – parents in the private kindergartens across the country. This hustle and bustle is strongly influenced by the impending election campaign. The promises that have been made satisfy, first of all, the parents of today, while the parents who are going to have children in kindergarten after 2011, in themselves, have not come so much longer in terms of security for the framework of creating and running a private kindergarten. Right, it's important that we have a fairly large share of private kindergartens. There's dynamics in the offer. It gives an increase where it is needed, both in terms of the number of places and the location of these places, and it gives a short and better offer to parents by having a corrective to the municipal places that are usually well planned and located where they are, and with great inertia in relation to how the population else develops. It also provides a broader educational offer, and thus also a quality in the totality of kindergartens, giving parents a short and good choice in both practical and qualitative and educational terms. Government policies will make driving and establishing private kindergartens much harder. The municipalities that want it, and there is reason to believe that the red-greens do, have all the cards on hand for more or less to phase out the private offer. If you want to squander and stop private from establishing yourself, you will have the full opportunity to do so after 2011. The right of establishment is an important point here, as well as funding. In it lies also the main criticism of the Right. The right grip on kindergarten policy is clear. We're going in for a municipal price. That means that the cost per cent. children must be the same within a municipality, whether in a municipality or in a private nursery. When we are not in favour of the state solution that the Progress Party is doing, it is because we believe that there are great differences in Municipality-Norway, and that we do not believe that it is easy to find a state key to govern after, regardless of the municipalities. Before we go in to move this into the municipal framework, there's a clear premise from the right that we're going to have a system that ensures non-discrimination. These are central regulations, with a key for calculating this. It is absolutely central for us to have a statutory right to equal treatment. The term ‘equal treatment’ is important in contrast to the Government Party’s proposal for ‘equal treatment’, which for us appears simply to be wool. Of course, there's an upgrading of the key that at least applies to many places, namely 85 pst. coverage to private kindergartens in relation to 100 pst, which is the starting point for the public. That work has started on the right. In the last two budgets, we have made additional appropriations and proposed an increase of some percent each time. It is of course a work we are prepared to continue and work up to a full 100 pst. coverage over the coming period. It was said from here – I think it was from the case rapporteur – that freedom of establishment would lead to chaos and great difficulties for the municipalities. I think that might be taking my mouth a little bit too full. The reality is that we're about to have full babysitting. We're supposed to be happy about that. That means that it's quite marginal to what extent there'll be room to create new kindergartens. If you want to maintain the quality and breadth of the private kindergartens, we depend on the flow of new ones. There will always be someone who turns out for different reasons. If we don't give good room to get started and secure to invest and invest in running kindergartens, we will slowly but surely step down the private initiative, which will have a negative impact on public kindergartens, both in the work that municipalities have to do to ensure that they have a good educational offer and the breadth that private people represent in terms of quality and pedagogical approach. We have noticed that the government has come up with a little better thoughts, but not as good as they should have been. Otherwise, I'd say it's thoughtful to see how the government parties in this case now need to flag how high they set the private kindergartens, how great it is to have a rich grasp of private kindergartens, and what value they think it has that we should also have private kindergartens in the future. It is perhaps striking to note the inconsistency that lies in this very thing, in relation to all the other care tasks that the Government does not think it is so very good to have private offers for – not to talk about the question of fresh oils, which are controlled with beaks and claws. What's really the principal difference between a private kindergarten and a boarding school? It's not that easy to see. But this is probably part of another debate, starting with school. Now we get to stick to the establishment and operation of kindergartens. There's a right more than a two-year perspective. We want to ensure a wide range of childcare services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e496	Finally, we treat Ot.prp. No 57 for 2007-2008, About the Act amending the Kinderhagen Act [[financing of non-municipal kindergartens]] To the representative of the Progress Party, I would like to say that I support the representative that it is important to research on child care measures, on child protection, school, kindergartens, etc., but I have no understanding that we need to research that it is good for mother to be at home. We know kindergartens are good for children and parents. Kindergartens are a good care offer, a good common arena and a good educational offer. Kindergartens also provide exposed children with a necessary supplementary care provision in parallel with parents and other caregivers. Kindergartens are also a good linguistic arena and are important for the integration of children with a multicultural background. Developing languages and a common platform through kindergarten before schooling is important for all children in Norway. For parents, kindergartens are also good. I have worked with parents in the establishment phase for very, very many years as a midwife and know that many children in this country had up to four-five day-old mothers a year. This means that both mother and father have the opportunity to be active, and then they are sure that their children have a good care supply. We now have another important part to play in today's welfare reform. I have worked as SV's child care spokesman since the Progress Party and SV promoted the proposal for full child care coverage at a maximum price, which led to the large child care agreement in Stortinget. It's one of the most important things I've been working on, and I've been very happy to be able to join this incredibly long journey towards having full babysitting in this country soon, and at a low price. Young people are given legal rights to kindergarten, and this is a predictable operation for both municipal and non-municipal kindergartens. There have been many laps, but I feel that I have now concluded on enough. In the proposal, the Ministry proposes that municipalities be given financial responsibility for the kindergarten sector through the 2011 framework funding. The municipalities are thus given the overall responsibility for the kindergarten sector. In order to ensure the continued operation of the non-municipal kindergartens, the Ministry proposes that municipalities be subject to a financial obligation vis-à-vis existing non-municipal kindergartens. Detailed rules for the financing of the non-municipal kindergartens are proposed in local regulations designed by each municipality. Newly established kindergartens will not automatically be eligible for funding. This is what SV believes is very good because we would have had an unpredictable situation for both children and parents in the event of over-establishment. The consequence of an over-establishment could be bankruptcy and lead to unforeseeability also for private kindergartens. The government will now facilitate the achievement of the objective of equal treatment for all approved kindergartens. SV supports an amendment to the legislative proposal to include the principle of equal treatment in the new legal provisions and so that national regulations continue to guide the understanding of equivalent treatment. We believe that national regulations are necessary to define more precisely what is laid down in the legal provision on equivalent treatment and require that the general rule of equivalent treatment be defined as providing the municipality with cost coverage for all approved kindergartens. SV also expects that the change now being made will lead to equivalent pay and working conditions also in the non-municipal kindergartens – we know that many of those working in the non-municipal kindergartens do not have this in place. Finally, I would like to say to the representative of the Progress Party: SV is not against private kindergartens. We've actually been involved in the proposal that led to the big nursery agreement. This we believe will make the offer even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e522	When the government parties came in with their partial spin on Monday 27 May, they produced it as a big victory. I ask: Win over who? Yes, over the Governments. They celebrated a great victory over themselves, for there was no one else but those themselves who had proposed the changes in Section 14. It was these changes the private kindergartens called catastrophic, and so the government parties finally, after many months, managed to get away with it again. But okay, the government has to celebrate the victory over itself, we're not going to take from them that joy. The problem is that the winner is not complete, only partially. For the changes we are adopting today, there is no better framework for all private kindergartens and for the children and parents who will use the private kindergartens in the future. So if someone wants to start a kindergarten after 2010, they depend on the municipality seeing the value of their starting up, that the municipality is not concerned about competition for the existing kindergartens, and that the municipality can afford to finance another nursery, although there may not be any need for more places in the first place. This isn't quite easy. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's proposal for free municipal discretion means that the right of establishment is not entirely real. It is not just the Christian People's Party that fears this – several hearing bodies are concerned that free municipal discretion will give little predictability, less diversity, discrimination and more administration, and that legal certainty may be threatened. The government's solution is that they say that the freedom of establishment should be maintained, but that kindergartens should not automatically be entitled to grants. Freedom of establishment is valueless without entitlement to operating grants. The Christian People's Party fears a 'Danish' development in the kindergarten sector. That is why our proposal for the new Section 14 is different from that of the Government and Government Parties. The main difference is that we believe that municipalities should not only provide grants to kindergartens that were approved before the framework transfer, but to all kindergartens. The Christian People's Party wants a public funding obligation that applies to all kindergartens and will ensure a genuine right of establishment with government grants to all approved kindergartens. We believe that Section 14 should contain binding legislation on how municipalities should grant grants to the non-municipal kindergartens. The State must provide clear guidelines for the calculation of the costs of kindergartens, national guides ensuring equal financial treatment. That is why we want a government-defined funding system that ensures this non-discrimination. All officially approved kindergartens must receive a basic allowance, irrespective of the size of the nursery, to ensure the survival of the smallest kindergartens. With a better funding system, kindergartens can provide better pay and working conditions for their employees. We know that there are significant differences in working conditions. It is unsustainable that employees in private kindergartens should have worse working conditions than employees in public kindergartens. Also in the Christian People's Party, we have had as our starting point that responsibility for the financing of kindergartens should be transferred in the long term to the municipalities. However, we do not want framework funding until full coverage has been achieved and full non-discrimination has been introduced. The Christian People's Party fears that the framework transfer before these requirements are met will result in the framework grants not reflecting the real cost level. Then the municipalities are left with the responsibility and with the costs, and it is without the actual cost level being known and has stabilised in advance. The Christian People's Party fears that the municipalities are now facing an economic challenge. Therefore, we ask the Government to defer the transfer of financial responsibility for the kindergarten sector to the municipalities until the full needs-based objective has been achieved and full economic equality for private and public day-care centres has been established. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to have clear and clear rules on the withdrawal of dividends from kindergartens. The Christian People's Party knows that some private kindergartens are running short, and there are very few who are going in profit. Therefore, it is a pity when large media outlays about a few players that make large dividends give the impression that this is a sector in which money is easy to make. Because we know it's not like that. The Christian People's Party believes that a person should consider the need for measures limiting unfair profits or remuneration. Finally, the Christian People's Party's starting point is that we want diversity in the kindergarten sector. We want many different types of kindergartens, kindergartens with alternative pedagogics, outdoor children's gardens and life-vision gardens. We fear that the government's long-term arrangements will bring less diversity and fewer private kindergartens. Today, the Christian People's Party is voting against the majority's proposal for a new section 14. We are voting in favour of our own proposal for a new Section 14 and for the other minority proposals available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e541	Now I've been pondering for almost four years what would make this government turn around, and finally I found out what it was. It was that one of the smaller parties was tricked by one of the other smaller parties – that's what was going to happen. Because here it is clear that the centre party has not quite managed to join the turns, when we have a government party responsible for this sector that is opposed to private kindergartens, which has a programme formula that it actually wants to work against – sail if they denies their own program from this pulpit. Kindergartens shall, in the view of the Left, be a good educational offer to strive for good quality. But it's actually an equally important point that there should be a voluntary offer. The government should actually have boasted in one area here, and it's that it's managed to build as many kindergartens as it's done during the period. The problem, which makes the children's gardening effort of the Government a belly pad anyway, is that when the list is added so high – you should both bring down the price so much, and you should build so many – you can do something that you could actually boast about, that is, the construction, to a small defeat, too. The maximum price to be introduced, I remember the front page of Dagbladet, I lighten it today – $1,800 for everyone – has shown itself in practical politics, when it is put into practice, to be quite unfair and quite unsocial. In the city we're in now, that means that most families with an average income of 600 000 to 800 000 kroner have been able to travel on two extra South trips, while the municipality actually had to sponsor in order for a single mother with less than 150 000 kroner of income to continue to have its low price. The municipality had to go in and pay extra. So the maximum price can be heard fine on the front page of Dagbladet, the maximum price can also be very nice to sell as a social measure, but in practical policy I have just as much faith that good municipal politicians are able to find the good social grips. And then we're back to the position of the left in this case. We believe that transferring responsibility for this area to the municipalities can actually lead to something good. It's actually so that it's not the state that's found in a single nursery. It is largely driven by municipal politicians and small municipal entrepreneurs who are active in it with social entrepreneurship. They're the ones who've driven these kindergartens. Building a community in Norway is believed to be a state and municipality that has done from scratch. But I can't actually come up with any of our social community actions that haven't started with either social entrepreneurship or voluntary work — and kindergartens. Kindergartens are primarily created by industrious housewives who would make a good offer locally, by industrious sanitary associations that would make a good offer locally – it is not the state that has made kindergartens, they are just made by the drifting ideas. I'm a little startled when you say that it's going to be wasted on municipal money if you're going to have the right to freedom of establishment. The freedom of establishment means that it's really the children who decide, and it's those who decide with their legs which kindergarten they actually go into. And I think that the wit is quite well distributed in the country. Therefore, I believe that if we had done as the Left has now done through a number of budgets, tried to reduce the gap between private and public kindergartens in relation to government grants quickly, we could have used the municipal sense to create the good solutions locally. Then we could transfer responsibility to the municipalities. I believe that the reason for all the chaos that has been in some municipalities and that many private people have been mentioned above has come from the fact that they have made too detailed legislation and have not allowed municipal discretion to have the opportunity to find the good solutions. So until the end of the day with a profit, well, that sounds good. I was among those who were really eager to get this in when it came to fresh oils. It has shown us that there are many gaps in such legislation, and I do not think it is possible to implement them. It's at least very easy to find holes, and then we get headlines about kindergartens we don't want to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e559	The issue we are dealing with today has some main points. First of all, we have to transfer the responsibility for financing or operating the nursery sector to the municipalities, i.e., he has a framework fund. At the same time, we need to ensure adequate funding both for municipal kindergartens and for non-municipal kindergartens, and to ensure a real, equivalent treatment. Thirdly, we have to finance so that the equivalent treatment can actually be put into practice, and we have to ensure a good, practical way of doing it, through national regulations, and through a local system of e.g. advance payment to the kindergartens. This is the end point of the greatest welfare reform we have implemented in Norway in recent times. Because in the decade we now have behind us, we have carried out an extensive escalation of the whole kindergarten sector. We are now in the process of reaching goals with full child care coverage – a goal that we have been talking about in Norway for decades, which we have been far away from, but which has been a massive expansion effort in recent years. So we've done that at the same time we've reduced the price, so that's now a coverage of about 87 pst. - and about 95 pst. of all children of elementary school age have been within a nursery provision. We have introduced a legal right to kindergarten that comes into force from August 1st – the first time proposed in the Stortinget 20 years ago – and now the last point from the old nursery agreement. This is the largest welfare reform in recent times, but it is also a major equality reform, a knowledge reform and an inclusion reform. It's interesting to think that here in the hall there are the people who have been fighting for kindergartens in Norway for many decades, for example. The representative Hildeng and the representative Hansen, who was also one of the proponents behind the kindergarten agreement in Stortinget in his time. First of all, they have experienced the discussion about it in general is good for families, for equality and for society that we have kindergartens in Norway, with the resistance of several of those who are now for kindergartens in Norway. They've been through the discussion about whether it's good for society and for work, whether it might have a greater meaning than just a social good. They've been through the battle for giving priority to money and space to it in politics, and now, last but not least, the battle to show that this is actually also a hugely important measure for children's development and learning in early childhood. Every once in a while they have won, along with them, after all, many of us who also think that kindergartens are an important and great good, which is fundamentally positive. So it's like this with a big welfare reform that even though we're talking about it, we're done with it, it's really just the beginning. What we are now facing is the beginning of a time of a fully-fledged kindergarten sector, where kindergarten is the voluntary beginning of the education cycle, and new challenges, not least quality challenges, how to raise skills, recruit even more, develop the content of kindergartens, how to ensure that a pedagogical offer before school starts is a one that can reach everyone, and how to ensure that parents who are going to be more occupied with what is happening inside the kindergartens get more influence and ability to influence it. With the danger of becoming polemic at the end and extending the debate, however, I cannot avoid noticing in the Progress Party its remarks about the important role of the family, which I fully agree with, and the connection to the problem with kindergartens, which I may not agree with. Because it's the irony of fate that the biggest changes in babysitting in recent years are that the youngest children have come into kindergartens. If the worst predictions in the minority comments, which I've discussed with the Progress Party in this room many times, would strike, it's the irony of fate that it was the Progress Party that, together with SV and others, helped to advance the last feature of the kindergarten expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e572	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e575	The Christian People's Party is concerned with parents' freedom of choice, and we are very concerned with good kindergartens and good offers for all children. There is no doubt that the last few years have been marked by an important goal for the whole Storting, namely to get full child care coverage. It's a big project, on which this government has had a very big focus. This project did not come into being without the help of the private kindergartens. That's why it's a little weird for us who've been working on this for a long time, that you now see the private kindergartens almost as a threat, that it can just be a problem if there's too many kindergartens. Wouldn't it be very sad if full child care coverage became a short-term goal because the private kindergarten providers withdrew due to the turmoil associated with the financing of these?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e580	I'm just saying that that's the mess that's now gone. I know well that that turbulence has been there. But I assume that what the representative is looking for is the freedom of establishment, and what the minority is suggesting, is that it should have an automatic obligation to fund new kindergartens. At that point, I just have to say that I'm completely disagreed. I also have a big problem understanding the position. For it will be a great advantage for the existing private and municipal kindergartens that there is no automatic release of new funds to a kindergarten, the same who, because one then, risks leaving existing kindergartens. I don't think parents, children or children will appreciate it. Nor can it be in society that it is a right to get money to start building up, for example. a new nursery or other welfare community institution. It is precisely the municipality that, in a developed sector, should be allowed to assess it for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e587	The left and the left have been united in the fight for more kindergartens, so the conflict line that the Council of State put forward in its statement, that you are either for or against kindergartens, is probably not the big conflict line right now. The conflict line is, of course, an ideological distinction between whether it is considered that it is best for the public to own kindergartens or whether it should be private actors. My question then is whether the Council of State agrees with what is in the SV's programme, that it wants to reduce the number of private players in that market, and that it wants to convert them into local authorities. Or does one stand for another vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e594	I noticed that the representative Skei Grande said from Stortinget's spokesman that SV is against private kindergartens, and it was claimed from another that SV is a party that would ban them. So find that program, read where it says it. It's not there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e599	It's on page 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e604	Yeah, fine, get rid of it, because it's not. On the other hand, we're concerned that we're going to have both of these. Another thing is what a developmental move looks like in the future. But it's clear and clear, from SV, that we want to have both municipal and private kindergartens. That is why, in the Soria Moria Declaration, we have also said that we should work for equivalent pay and working conditions, and we have, in our time, concluded the kindergarten agreement which also had equivalent treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. So now we're in the process of finding a solution to how to secure it in the future, which will provide a safe environment for both municipal and private kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e611	I want to follow up the line from the representative Tørresdal, because, in response to her, the Council of State says: How would it be if new establishments – he used the term – appeared to children from the existing kindergartens? Yes, what if the new kindergartens were perhaps a better offer? Maybe they gave an offer that some parents actually wanted. Maybe they're better because a building block or something makes a municipal nursery turn out to be unmoveable, for reasons I don't have to get into. Perhaps it is quite reasonable that some kindergartens win that competition, and that competition would actually provide a better offer. Is not the Council of State concerned that a situation where new ones will not actually be able to escape will, in fact, also make a worse offer over time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e620	This may happen, and that is precisely why each municipality should be able to decide for itself what the structure of childcare should look like in a fully developed sector. One then has the full opportunity to finance what seems to be the right thing to do, and to expand to the desired size of the sector. But it's a very different matter if it's going to be so that you have the right to get a municipal allowance when you set up a new nursery, completely independent, and if you don't mind, maybe a political plurality in the municipality would want to. There I have a big problem with understanding that the parties that usually place great emphasis on the municipality's significant influence and ability to govern welfare policy, now in reality say that there is a right to receive benefits, which gives less room for action for each municipality to control the sector, and which in my view makes it harder to feel secure about the possibility of thinking about the long-term future of existing kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e627	Let me get quoted SV's program page 15. It says: ‘SV will work for a much larger proportion of kindergartens to be publicly owned and operated’. This weekend I was visiting the municipality of Lier. Lier has three municipal kindergartens and 26 private kindergartens. Then I will ask a question to the Council of State. If you are running a private kindergarten in Lier, and the Council of State intends to continue in its position as Council of State – I know that he has black belted in explaining SV decisions: This decision cannot be seen in any other way than that as a private kindergarten driver in Lier, one must expect the Government to intervene in order to have more municipal kindergartens, and that the private must be laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e638	On the other hand, this was a good illustration of the fact that the representative Skei Grande had to read what she was doing, as she now does, and not say anything entirely different from the Stortinge Chair, as she did instead, where she said that SV was against private kindergartens. Because that's not what's in the program. So I think she's known for years what's in the Soria Moria statement. What it says is that we need both municipal and non-municipal kindergartens in Norway, that we should work for equivalent conditions for them. She is also aware of the pediatric agreement, which SV has concluded many years ago, among other things. along with the Left. It says we're going to work for equal treatment. Now it's done. Once we've done that, we're going to be on the front line, securing safe and prudent funding both for municipal and private kindergartens in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e645	I'll try another one, I will. If you have three municipal kindergartens and 23 private kindergartens, and there's going to be a much larger proportion of public property, how are you going to get the private to become municipal without shutting them down or taking over the operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e652	Excuse me. – First of all, let’s just clean this up first, so that we don’t talk about what the representative Skei Grande said instead that SV is against. Then we've cleared up that the Soria Moria statement is crystal clear on this, and that the policy we're now putting forward, we're going to stand by. Then, of course, what we decide today is to transfer the responsibility for that problem to the individual municipality. So then SV and Left in Lier municipality can disagree about it, discuss it in their local government, and then I'm going to speculate that SV in Lier will go in order for one in the future to give priority to building up the municipal supply in Lier, while the Left in Lier might say that it is more important to strengthen the private supply. What do I know? It is precisely what is involved in transfers to municipalities, that each municipality should take responsibility for the development of its childcare facilities. What we have now done in the government is to ensure that, regardless of whether each municipality should give priority to municipal or private development, or both, we have a safe and sound funding within the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e663	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e666	With the decision today, we are finally in the process of realizing the nursery agreement. The kindergarten agreement was also historic because it expressed a political consensus that all children should have the opportunity to have a kindergarten. The road here has been long. Positions and arguments have changed over time. In an annual report from the municipality of Christiania from the last century, the purpose of kindergartens was described as follows: «The children's asylums form shelters for children of the poor Population where they could spend the day with play and appropriate employment under the supervision of the women's employees. [[...]] The asylums have a double purpose: both to facilitate the mother's access to work outside the home and mainly to get the children accustomed to obedience, cleanliness and order and to keep them from spending their time in the streets." [[...]] This was a long time ago. But it is also when I think back on my time as politically active. As a young feminist, I collided with like - minded people who wanted to start a family and at the same time have a professional career. We had three months of maternity leave and kindergarten places that were distributed according to social criteria. We wrote political programmes and studies that socio-economically building kindergartens would pay off, because women too could go out to work and contribute financially to society. The views were ridiculed by the male municipal government members, who argued how expensive this would be, and how expenditure would burden municipal budgets. Today we know better. Our investigations have proved to be consistent. The well-being we have today would not have been without women in the workplace. With the women's coup at the municipal elections in 1971, kindergarten expansion was seriously put on the agenda. But it was many years of good intentions before real expansion began, which we who began to have children experienced. My son was born in 1969. After three months' leave from work, I got a place for him in kindergarten because at the same time I finished my main job. Poor, as small as he is. Don't you have a bad conscience? That's what I was met with when I delivered him to the kindergarten. Of course I had a bad conscience, but three months' leave was what we had. After I finished my studies, we lost our nursery. There were many of us who were desperate and standing without any nursery space. Fine words about multiple kindergartens didn't help us. It had to take action. We occupied an old house. In winter it was cold and damp and not proper to have children there. Because many of the people who took part in this action were linked to the same job and threatened that they could no longer be in work, we got a temporary loan of some unused premises. This lasted until my son started school. The road from the women's cabin to today has been paved with much goodwill, many promises and little action. But the last four years have been different. It's a trick when this government can now set the finish line and say that for the autumn we have full babysitting. Any child who wants kindergarten can have it. It's just to rejoice. It's just congratulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e684	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e687	Many of the representatives have been concerned about this with the freedom of establishment. I think it is extremely important that the municipalities get that responsibility. That's because we're going to have a predictable operation ahead. It is the municipalities as the local nursery authority that know how to assess the future. When SV is attacked because it says in our work programme that we are not for private kindergartens, it is wrong. That's not what it says. But we say that in the future there may be several municipal kindergartens that become established in the municipalities where we sit in power. If I had been a municipal politician in Oslo, I know what kindergartens I would have wanted the municipality to take over, and that applies to all the kids who are in apartments, where they have used dirtholes in this law and established family kindergartens that go on dispensation from having a pre-school teacher. That's the kind of kindergarten I'm going to be municipal in future. But because we say that there should be no freedom of establishment in the future, all the private kindergartens that are now established, that have done a great job and that are qualitatively good, have a security in the future for the municipality to finance them. I believe that this is very good for the whole sector, not least for parents and children, so that there is no bankruptcy because competition is becoming too big. We had enough of it a few years ago, when it wasn't lucrative to build kindergartens in the municipalities. I even came from a municipality where SV said yes to all the private establishments of kindergartens because it was so poor funding that we knew that this was not possible, and the municipality had to take over these kindergartens. Now it is possible for private kindergartens, because of the good financing arrangements we have, to establish themselves until 2011 and to have predictable operations in the future. In terms of maximum price: the maximum price has been extremely important because so many more have been able to afford to use a kindergarten. The pre-requisite of the kindergarten agreement was that the municipalities should continue with graduated rates and free places. There are many municipalities that have done, but there are also some municipalities that have not done so. Then to Danish states. We in the committee were visiting there just now. The reason why private kindergartens have gone so badly in Denmark is because they have a national price finance, which the Progress Party wants. That's not what we're saying. Kindergartens cost different operating costs, and therefore we must have differentiated, equivalent treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e700	It is very important to sum up this debate by saying that there are no parties against full child-care coverage. There are no lots in this room that are against high quality and a maximum price. It's great that you're in the process of achieving these goals. The concern expressed in this debate has been about the uncertainty created. We need both private and municipal kindergartens to maintain both quality and diversity — and full coverage. This debate has been very much about it being a real, free right of establishment when you haven't secured the funding. I will leave it to point to a few things that have not been mentioned so much in the debate. It is very important for the Christian People's Party that it is arranged so that one can have children when one is a student. Then it's important to have a good student children's garden offer. The Christian People's Party wants good framework conditions for the student children's gardens and asks the government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals that ensure this very thing. Furthermore, it is important that you look at the family gardens. They are not mentioned in the proposition, but also for this sector good framework conditions, predictability and non-discrimination are important. In the view of the Christian People's Party, in order to ensure the quality of family gardens, it is appropriate to limit the use of exemptions from the requirements of the standard of living, living room in inhabited homes and, in particular, pedagogical supervision. Children in family gardens should also have a high quality offer. Finally, the Christian People's Party wants all parents to have an opportunity – and economics – to send children to kindergarten if they want to. Unfortunately, not everyone can afford it today despite a maximum price. The Christian People's Party is concerned that all municipalities should have an income graded parental allowance for kindergarten places, so that no children are prevented from going to kindergarten because of their parents' financial situation. It was good with the maximum price, but the challenge with the maximum price was that there was less difference between those who have poor paying skills and those who have very good paying skills. This may be corrected by securing a graded parental payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e718	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 706]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e735	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e744	The case is about a concrete bill from the Progress Party that is about allowing the right to expel students from education, that it can be delegated to teachers. The matter has been dealt with in practice in the Grand Meeting as a document proposal earlier – yesterday – and I have not intended to say anything more than that all the arguments in the case were then put forward. The Committee setting here repeats the arguments, but the Progress Party has a proposal that they themselves would like to make. I don't intend to say anything more about that exactly at this point in Odelsting's meeting. I would like to give the following case information: the Progress Party will take up its proposal, which I expect will be done in due course, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Left subsidiary will vote in favour of this bill, because it can be seen as a continuation of what we wanted to achieve when we voted in the Storing meeting, on the proposal for a document on the same reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e751	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his work. I would also like to point out that in this case, the balance between the Left and the Advance Party is considerably less than in a previous case, in the main meeting yesterday. I just want to give a few very few comments. The debate has taken place in Stortinget, so I'm not going to retake it. In Stortingen, the Council of State stated that the proposal sent to the hearing goes beyond the proposal in Odelstingen for consideration. The reality of this proposal is that it can be implemented in such a way that, when teachers go to school for the autumn, they have the right to expel students. Following the procedure laid down by the Council of State, this could best be implemented from 1 January 2010. Since the Ministry's proposal goes beyond this, it might be an idea for the government board in the meantime, pending the government's sending a case to the Stortinget, to support today's proposal, so that the teacher's authority does not go poorly half a year in meeting the first part of the next school year. I recommend to the Council of State to support the proposal. Rather, the proposal could possibly be extended when the Council of State returns to the Storting with an outrageous proposition. With that, I would like to mention the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e762	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e765	On a direct request: I believe that the robust authority of the teachers in the Norwegian community tolerates that we carry out a listening round in a normal way in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e770	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 707]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e787	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be five lines of reply given by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e796	This is a proposal for a bill of representation from the Progress Party. The proposal is to amend the Training Act §8-2, which will open up to enable students to be divided into groups by professional level. The legislative proposal shall be subject to only the support of the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party in the Committee's term of office. The members of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, consider that the right to adapted training is provided for in § 1–3 of the Training Act and that current § 8–2 does not preclude this. The members of the Progress Party consider today's Training Act to be a barrier to adapted training. That is why they are promoting the proposal we are now considering. I expect the proposers themselves to justify their proposal. Adapted training is an important objective for the school and is one of the main areas of action in the Knowledge Lift. Adapted training must include all pupils, and schools can become even more attractive in adapting training to individual students. Paragraphs 8 to 2 of today’s Training Act replaced the previous classification division and was adopted in 2003. The paragraph provides for local adaptations and flexibility in the organisation at local level, but at the same time states that permanent group divisions are not open on the basis of professional, gender or ethnicity and not groups that are larger than those that are educationally or socially sound. A Joint Committee stresses the importance of ensuring the social membership of all pupils in a group, and everyone, except the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, considers that the proposed amendment may be contrary. We have a good Norwegian school today. But then we also have challenges we have to take seriously. The promise of knowledge, which was widely agreed in Stortinget, has now worked in school for three years. Today’s government parties have followed up and further developed the actions of the Knowledge Lift. Adapted training measures are also covered. An example is the choice of education, where young people can test different courses from higher education. I understand that it is frustrating for the opposition when there is political consensus, and that other ways must then be found to vent their frustration, among other things. through accusations of party speeches. Right, it's now late in the evening, but this is far from any celebration. The Government Parties follow up and further develop the Knowledge Lift through, inter alia: Adapted training measures, focus on basic skills and early efforts, increased teacher density in first to fourth stages, new and improved teacher training and new screening tests, to mention something. The amendment proposed by the Progress Party is a very bad idea and is clearly ideologically and politically motivated, and not based on knowledge. Research shows that the distinction between groups by professional level does not promote school learning, either for the overall learning environment or for the individual — rather, on the contrary. A review of 300 studies of student capacity classification shows that this has an effect on approximately zero on average. Research is clear that pooling by capacity increases the inequalities of learners and enhances social inequality. Low expectations for students in groups with lower professional performance, the quality of education, low self-confidence among students and the fact that students seem to have a positive learning effect of associating with more highly skilled students are highlighted as some cause-for-effects. The fact that the Progress Party does not seem to care about research results is something we also recognise from the climate debate. I think that political is more perceptive, that the Progress Party advocates a policy that creates greater differences, more social inequality between students – without improving the overall learning outcomes. The working party believes adapted training within a group, which ensures social inclusion, is the best for each student and for the student mass as a whole. Here's the law of the day. The possibilities are there, and they are used. So you can always stretch even further and get better. Then it is a matter of building up under the teacher's role, giving the teacher confidence and the ability to be a clear person in teaching and, not least, of ensuring increasing teacher density. The trend we saw – more students per year. teacher – has now turned around. We've got 4,000 new teachers in school. This will be an important challenge to continue working with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e815	When discussing Norwegian school policy, many concepts are thrown into the air – integration, social inclusion, early intervention and adapted education, to name a few. The challenge is to fill these concepts with real content and not least that all actors – from legislator to individual teachers, the pupils involved and their parents – have a common understanding of what is in these concepts. For the time being, there is no majority to introduce free schooling in Norway, so schooling is done by postcode. Putting a little on the top means living one in the slum and your community school is lying there, one should go to school in the slum. Fortunately, we don't have direct slum in Norway, but this issue should be more than the Progress Party when we all say that we want to balance social differences. Norway has the most integrated school in the world. It is largely the student’s age that is decisive for which class he or she is going to attend, and what curriculum he or she is going to follow. A framework funding at the bottom and a number of statutory rights for many weak students in many cases suggest that the good students almost have to deal with themselves. I am convinced that this is part of the cause of the fighting and the turmoil we see in Norwegian school today. When children and young people do not face professional challenges at their level, they may in some cases be exposed to undesirable behaviour. These behavioural abnormalities span the entire spectrum, from detachment and fractions to containment and detachment. All of this is really a call for help and a need to be seen as the individual each. For too long, Norwegian school has focused on the collective and has been designed for an average student who does not exist. The unit school mindset has to take a lot of the blame for that. Through the Knowledge Lift, a focus is on learning goals and on better adapted training. However, we continue to experience discussions on how to measure learning outcomes and, not least, on how early it is to provide students with feedback on their achievements and in what form such feedback should be provided. Whether it is the government’s inability to put the measures adopted through the Knowledge Promise into practice, or whether there is a lack of understanding and culture in the sector to take the signals from the Stortinget, should not be said, but the fact is that there are still many students who have a day-to-day school where they are not allowed to develop and exploit their learning potential. The Children’s Ombudsman stated in 2008 that Norwegian school is destroying the most good students. Although in 2004, high school students were given the opportunity to take upper secondary education, this is far too little put into practice. Some of the reasons are that here we are talking about different levels of government and about unsolved funding. In the case of good pupils at primary school, they have to wait well, even though they are far ahead of their peers in individual subjects. In some classrooms, the teacher sees these students as a resource, while other teachers can perceive them as menacing, professionally speaking. If a student is going to go for two to three years without getting any progress in a subject, it goes without saying that this is devastating for the student concerned. In reality, there is a waste of society's resources. In the past, the Progress Party has put forward proposals for real-time adapted training for students who are more practical than theoretical, we have proposed that students throughout the primary school cycle should be able to take courses at a higher level than that recommended by age, and we have proposed a seamless transition between levels of government, so that municipal responsibilities do not hinder the professional development of pupils. Government parties have voted in favour of these proposals, without providing alternatives to ensure that all students are able to raise themselves professionally from their individual positions. The amendment we are discussing here today can open up the possibility of dividing students into groups as needed, based on a pedagogical assessment. We believe that today's legal formulation is a major obstacle to being able to provide individual adapted education. We point out that attempts have been made to divide students according to their professional level, and that this has resulted in major improvements in the student's professional benefits. Strinda high school went from 10 pst. Delete to 0 pst. delete after introducing differentiation. Obviously, the majority does not want such developments in other schools. The PISA study, with results that we can't exactly turn our chest off, also suggests that Norway is the Nordic country that uses at least professional differentiation across class steps. We are used to the other parties moving towards proposals like this from the Progress Party. However, what is frightening is the argument used, the fact that students lose social affiliation through professional differentiation, and that professional differentiation leads to a lasting division of groups. I would like to remind you that we are talking about individuals – not a gray mass. It is clear that even within differentiated groups, the individual will be able to develop professionally with different progressions and with different professional widths, which will have to provide for a new breakdown after a time. We therefore think it would make sense to get this amendment to the law in place. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e843	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 708]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e862	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e871	The size of this case will adopt a number of changes to the Training Act. Most of the legislative changes are adopted with broad consensus within the Committee. I would like to explain the legislative proposals and expect the various parties to clarify their position. I would first of all like to thank the Committee on good cooperation in the process. Being able to read and write and have a good understanding of numbers is almost a necessity to be able to cope with life and to get a good job. There are too many students today who do not have enough knowledge to read and write, and who do not have enough sense of numbers in the early years of school. Too many go out of school without being able to read or write well enough. The dropout in high school is too high, and it is a major and serious social problem that one in three young people does not complete high school in five years. Many of them do not have good enough writing and reading skills or good enough numerical understanding. The apostasy starts early. Therefore, early — as early as possible — intervention is important. It is therefore a special day that the Storting decides today to introduce early intervention obligations from 1 to 4. class steps in Norwegian, Sami and mathematics. The proposal for early action shall not be special education and the introduction of the obligation shall not affect the right of students to special education. Early effort is required as a further strengthening of the adapted training of 1–4. class steps in Norwegian, Sami and mathematics, and shall be aimed at students with poor reading and accounting skills. Increasing teacher density is a key instrument in meeting the obligation of early intervention. Increase in teacher density from 1 to 4. class steps shall not be at the expense of teacher density in other subjects and in other stages. The budget provided funds for the introduction of early response obligations from the autumn of 2009 and funds for full-year impact will be put into the 2010 State budget for approximately DKK 1 billion. This will mean about 2,000 more teachers between 1 and 4. class steps in primary school. Social affiliation and a good learning community are necessary for all students to learn and thrive. It is necessary to learn to cooperate with others, discuss and resolve conflicts when they occur. The Committee considers it necessary to make it clear from the law that the students in the training are to be divided into classes or basic groups to meet their social needs. The amendment of the law means that the class/base group is connected to the contact teacher scheme. The Act provides for the class/base group to have one or more contact teachers who are specifically responsible for the practical, administrative and social educational tasks relating to the class/base group and the pupils there, inter alia. contact with the home. Contact teacher responsibility is extended to include responsibilities for the class/base group. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, subscribe to this amendment. The Advance Party wants the law to be opened in order to be able to divide by professional level. Today, we will adopt an obligation for the school owner to produce an annual report on the state of primary and secondary education, and it will be linked to learning outcomes, non-responses and the learning environment. In the opinion, the Committee stresses that each child has the right to a good school environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. The Committee believes that the annual report must include how schools work to combat bullying. In its opinion, the Government asks that the annual report cover how the school meets universal design and accessibility requirements. The Committee considers it important that the school owners and elected bodies have a clear responsibility and commitment to the development of the school. The Committee proposes to legislate for the annual report to be discussed in both local and county councils and followed up by school owners and for the adoption of a legislative amendment in this respect, today. It is also proposed to clarify the right of minority students to extended training. The Committee supports the proposal of the Government. The Committee supports the Ministry’s proposal to clarify the obligation under the Training Act and the Private School Act to identify the skills of minority language students in Norwegian to ensure that they are granted their rights if they need specific language training. School-home cooperation is important, and the Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to clarify this in the law. The Committee also stresses that the guidelines to be developed are to be drawn up in cooperation with the Parental Committee for Initial Training. In the end, I just want to make some comments about the new subject of physical activity, which is not established in school today. The introduction of this subject is extremely important for both physical and mental health, for the learning environment and for learning outcomes. Proposals have been made for the regulation on physical activity in initial training, which has been sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e911	It is very worrying that 20 pst. by Norwegian students leave school as functional illiterates in the sense that they cannot read, write or calculate well enough. Once again, Stortinget is presented with a case in which the intention is good, but the whole and the instruments do not exist. The concept of ‘early work’ is again being developed, this time for 1–4 students. class steps – the legalisation of the right to customised training for pupils who are weak in reading and billing, municipal obligation to increase teacher density towards this student group without special education. Who could disagree with the intention? Whatever the political stance, I think everyone in this room is sincere when they say that they want the individual student to get the highest possible learning outcomes. The only way to achieve the goal is to identify the way in which you are willing to use it. As former municipal and county politicians, I have repeatedly experienced the cross-political frustration that has spread locally when a person has been given new legal orders from the Storting that have not been followed up with financial resources and resources to solve the problems. The promotion party is very much afraid that the municipalities that school owners now see themselves forced to move trained teachers from other disciplines and other stages to meet the legal requirement for enhanced training at the first four class stages. Had it been enough teaching resources to take off, this wouldn't have been a problem, but we're not in that situation. The size granted funds for 1,600 new teaching positions, but the municipalities were able to get eight in the course of the last year, was the message we received in February of this year. The government's parties produce several other figures in this setting to decorate the picture, but the fact is that municipalities have serious problems recruiting more teachers, both because the overall economic situation is very difficult and because they cannot pump teachers up from the North Sea either. I have noticed that the government parties express concern that there is so much increase in the number of teachers without approved education. Well, for someone who has 30 years of seagoing service in the public sector, the last few years before I came to the Storting also with great economic and personnel responsibility and responsibility for hiring people, I know how framework funding works in practice. And I know what it's like when the money doesn't stretch. Unskilled workers are cheaper than skilled workers. When one needs hands and heads, municipal leaders are pushed to the extreme to lower the qualitative offer in order to get a sufficient number of annual works in place. This is the reality out there, and in it also finds the main reason why the undersigned in his time joined the Progress Party, which, after all, accounts for a completely different method of funding the school and health services. With regard to the proposal on the organisation of groups, I have been discussing it earlier today during the examination of the proposals of the Progress Party. Therefore, I do not see the need to comment on it further, but I would just like to inform you that if the Progress Party's proposal on case No. 5 against assumption should not have a majority, the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal to amend § 8-2, which, after all, is an improvement in relation to today's law. For a number of years, Norwegian businesses have complained that they are drowning in the form field. The same situation is in the process of getting into the public sector. Nevertheless, today we are going to go in for further reporting. This is a status report to be used as a school owner management tool. While supporting this reporting, the Progress Party would stress the need for a critical review of all forms and reports to be completed by teachers, principals and school owners. This reporting steals time that could have been used for teaching, and we have to get away from having fun and over to having to know. It must be the pupils’ learning outcomes that must have a primary focus, and important elements here are also home-school cooperation and the student’s working environment. With regard to the last aspect, I would like to draw attention to the proposals made by the Progress Party to combat bullying, while I am pleased to note that the proposals put forward by the Progress Party on home-school cooperation, which was voted down two years ago, will now become a legal reality. Otherwise we notice that the government does not have an overview of the total support from the public to the landlines. We have repeatedly heard why it is so important to have a governance structure that is adapted to a population of 47 million people rather than to 4.7 million people. But at least one has to be able to demand, the department has an overall overview of how much of the taxpayers' money goes to fund different school offerings. We can't have it so that the government looks like a three-headed troll where one head doesn't know what the other two are doing. I would also like to note today the votes of the government parties on matters relating to NTG and Wang. For someone who comes from Eastfold, I'm afraid we get a reprisal of what happened in the vote on the passenger roof of Back. Of course, it gives the Advance Party good arguments in the election campaign, but I fear that the treatment the Government exposes these schools to will lead to a reduced offer coming school years. Otherwise, it is worth noting that the government parties, which before the 2005 elections promised hot food to all the students now struggling to put in place cold food in the form of fruit and green. We are sincerely hoping that this government will be replaced soon, otherwise we will end up with frozen food. I shall be allowed to take up the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e939	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e942	The previous speakers have explained well the proposals in which the Committee agrees to support the Government's position. I just want to mention briefly that it is gratifying that we have a debate in the Chamber today where there seems to be full agreement on the concept of early action and that early action is important. There are many of us who have been thinking for many years, and it is good that it has now become a general political community. So I would like to make a comment on the issue of reporting, because it is clear that the reporting obligation now being introduced has different sides. This can lead to more red tape and may lead to more work for teachers and for all those in the school administration to do so. But I think it's important to stress that no matter how we do it, it has to be more than a duty exercise. It has to be reworked, it has to be informative, and it has to focus on results and be accessible to all interested parties. When it comes to physical activity, I don't think there's any disagreement here in the hall that it's important. It is an important part of school life, and it is important for children to be able to concentrate over a long day. But what happens to this bill is that you actually introduce a new subject, physical activity, alongside the regular exercise, but in the new subject, you don't have to have the right skills. On this basis, for its part – and also for other parties here in the Chamber – the Right will vote against the amendment proposal in the third paragraph of Section 2-3. Both the NTG of Norway and Wang are currently in a very difficult economic situation, and there is a great danger that they will have to reduce their school offer from the 2009/2010 school year. It has been underfunded over a long period of time, and today it is the case that schools receive a top-notch grant only for 810 out of 1,380 students. There is a clear discrimination between private and public top sports services, and, as the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn pointed out, there is a great danger that the offer can be so severe that many students will stand without a top sports offer next school year. In the case of fruit and vegetables, there is no disagreement in the hall that good nutrition is important for good learning. However, I would point out that what is about to happen with regard to the legal paragraph of the Training Act on the obligation to provide fruit and vegetables is that many municipalities become offenders if they give priority to recruiting a teacher instead of, for example. to offer fruit and green to students. It's a situation I think is unsustainable. Earlier in Stortinget this evening we discussed a proposal from the Progress Party on a new funding model for initial training, which all other parties voted against, bearing in mind the importance of municipal autonomy. This must also be emphasised in this debate – municipal autonomy and the need for municipalities to be able to assess what is most important. If it is that it is more important to employ more teachers than to offer fruit and vegetables, I believe the municipalities should have that freedom, just as they should have the freedom to assess whether they, for example, are. will offer more hours than fruit and green to students. There are many municipalities that nevertheless want to offer fruit and green – and that’s fine – but then it’s because it’s a municipal priority, and not because it’s legally imposed by the state. I think that in the future we will also see quite a number of examples of what at least the Right Magnification Group and several others have also been told in the latter period, namely that the fruit and the green system are not working very well. It costs the municipalities somewhere between 220 million. NOK 250 and SEK 250 million. kr a year, which many municipalities could wish they had been allowed to spend on other things that are important for learning. The right voted against when this was required by law in the Training Act, and we are today promoting a proposal to repeal this law. At the same time, I am addressing the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e963	The representative Ms Soreide has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e966	As many have said, this bill brings the Committee together on most points. On some elements even the government parties have come to meet us, something we are pleased about. It should also be in a parliament. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposal to legislate for early intervention in the subjects of Norwegian or Sami and mathematics of 1–4. year-end. The reason is that we're skeptical about lawmaking without any tools being given when something doesn't work. Then the result is a quick shift of responsibility more than a problem solution. A law will have no value if it is not followed up with e.g. increasing teacher density. We know that in that process the municipalities are now involved, there are tough priorities, and in the budgets they are dealing with, it is now cut in the number of posts in primary school. We are therefore proposing to introduce national standards for teacher density. The reality in school is that many students experience being put into classes with up to 28 students. This may indicate that there are sometimes cuts in the number of apprenticeships because of the tight budgets. It gives an unsustainable learning situation. In order to succeed in early and adapted training, teachers need sufficient time for each individual student. This requires that we actually manage to get more teachers at school. Social affiliation is important in order to achieve good learning and well-being. It is therefore good that the concept of class is included in the Training Act in order to avoid misunderstandings as to the no longer being permitted for class organisation. It is also positive that contact teachers are given legal responsibility for the class. This will include, inter alia: be important to meet the needs of pupils for social inclusion. At the same time, it is important to point out that contact teachers may need to be freed of time for this important part of the tasks, and that this again could require additional resources and greater teacher density. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal to oblige municipalities and county councils to produce annual status reports, but at the same time there is already too much of the teacher's working time going to tasks other than being a pedagogist. It is therefore important that this report does not add up to all the red tape they are going to do, but replaces some of the reports already to be made by teachers. It is also important that the report be debated at the school owner, so that there can be a tool for school development locally – we are pleased with the clarification that government parties are now making. The reports must also assess how the purpose, home and school cooperation and the fight against bullying have been followed up in each school. Awareness of the role of home, both at school and at parents, empowerment of all parents and knowledge of the benefits of good cooperation between home and school, could lead to a greater degree of social cohesion in school. It is therefore essential that both the Government and all schools again focus on combating bullying. It's no use with a lashes in the fight against bullying. Only through constant focus and continuous work will we be able to combat this problem. Children who are bullied deserve a safer and better everyday life. We agree with the clarification of the obligation to cooperate with parents in primary and secondary education. It is important that, as soon as the legislation is adopted, regulations are put in place to guide cooperation between home and school at different stages of primary education. I am therefore pleased that the government parties have supported the proposal to draw up regulations on how school-home cooperation is to take place at the different levels, and that this will be done in cooperation with the Parental Committee for Primary Education. Private schools for disabled people need to be given a clearer recognition basis. Many of the schools for disabled people provide unique services based on special competence developed over the years, some of which also provide education for unaccompanied adults. The provision of these schools is often not available at public schools. There is a high value in maintaining schools that can provide children and adults with a specific need for organised training an offer, and a number of private services have been established that have been good to this group. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is promoting with others and what we have alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e987	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e990	In St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, Early efforts for lifelong learning, we saw a number of shortcomings in Norwegian schools. Some of the most important thing was that we in Norway put in the necessary help measures for students too late. It is important to strengthen early efforts to maximise learning outcomes for each student and to close them in school. The sooner the actions will be inserted, the more effective and less resource-demanding they will be. There are too many elephants today who don't learn well enough to read and write, or who don't have enough sense of speech in their early school years. In St.meld. No 31 for 2007–08, quality in school, there are many good tools to improve schooling. There's one of these things that we 'arrange' with the laws that are being introduced today. In the message on quality at school, it was said that there would be proposals for a statutory obligation to early effort in Norwegian or Sami and mathematics at 1–4. the steps and resources for the implementation of the obligation. Today, we can see that it has been followed up. Means are set aside to introduce early intervention obligations from the autumn of 2009. There will also be funding for annual impact in the 2010 State budget, which will amount to approximately DKK 1 billion. Increased learning density is a central tool for fulfilling the 1–4 early response obligation. steps. The owner of the school has the freedom to choose how to align himself to comply with the law. But it is important that the school has teachers with competence in reading and computing. In addition, it may be appropriate to use specialised professionals with such competence. But of course, it is also important to stress that the increase in learning density between 1 and 4. Steps shall not be taken at the cost of learning skills in other disciplines and at other stages. In St.meld. No 31. Quality in school, as has also been pointed out earlier, the Ministry has notified adjustment of the training law §8-2 on the organisation of pupils in groups, so that the social membership of a group is strengthened. It is important that the law clearly specifies that the students in the training should be divided into classes or basic groups to meet their social needs. The legislative proposal means that the class/base group is connected to the contact teacher scheme. The proposal provides for the legalisation of the class/base group to have one or more contact teachers who are specifically responsible for the practical, administrative and social educational activities of the class/base group and the students there, among others. contact with the home. A statutory obligation was also notified to the school owner to draw up an annual report on the state of elementary school education and further training in the named St.meld. No 31. Under the Training Act, municipalities and county councils and private schools are obliged to have a defence system to assess whether the requirements of the Training Act and the regulations of the Law are being complied with. But there is no reporting requirement in this field. It is perfectly reasonable, in the view of the Centre Party, that Norway legislates a requirement for the school owner to draw up an annual report on the state of the training school. The aim is to better implement the measures needed. Physical activity other than physical exercise is not established in the basal sphere today. The centre part is one of those who think that the introduction of two veketiams to physical activity at the child’s stage other than physical exercise will give positive effects as a better learning outcomes for the pupils, while there will be a health promotion for the individual. Physical activity shall be part of the compulsory elementary school training and shall be part of a more holistic day of schooling, which shall facilitate a more varied and active day of schooling for the pupils. Physical activity is beneficial for both mental and physical health, for the learning environment and for the learning outcomes. In addition, municipalities have a statutory obligation to keep students with free fruit and greenery in their school days. The scheme applies to all pupils where there are youth levels, 8th to 10th steps, and combined schools, 1st to 10th. steps. Extra funds are allowed for municipalities to use for fruit and vegetables in the school. The center party believes it is important to ensure that the municipalities follow up the scheme of fruit and greenery. This is an important measure that can contribute to good dietary habits for children and young people and provide the basis for more learning, since diet and nutrition affect concentration and attitudes towards good learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1013	It is not time for the long comments, but for the short messages. The left votes like the rapporteur has explained, but as I will clarify. The left is for an early effort law. We think it's important. We've clarified that it requires resource supply. This is reflected in the budgets and in the budgets discussed in the Grand Duchy. We are opposed to legalizing a physical activity that is not related to the physical exercise itself. That's a position we've had before, and that means we're going to vote against § 2-3 third paragraph of the Education Act and a corresponding paragraph of the Private School Act. We also agree with the Right and Christian People's Party in canceling the obligation to fruit and green. We do that because, in general, we believe that the school, when you have limited resources available and have to give priority, gets to focus on the primary tasks in school, which are training and having enough teachers. We know a series of municipalities where the economy has been so demanding that you have chosen to spend money on teachers. You have not been allowed to do that. We don't want to put school in such a situation that fruit and green go first. Of course, we have nothing against a sensible nutrition policy. This may include, inter alia: ensure that we have professional qualifications to teach in all disciplines. The sitting government has not been willing to do so. We know, for example. that a large proportion of teachers in some small subjects lack competence, including: in the case of food care and health. When it comes to making professional demands for all teachers at school – whether they are to be newly admitted or to be so today – the Left believes that it should apply regardless of when the teachers are there, both those who are there today and those who are coming later. We link it to our general commitment to systematic further training for all teachers in all subjects. In addition, we have some wise words that the great colleague Line Henriette Holten Heimdal was told in her time when she asked a teacher in Eastfold about what she was going to do with her 8-year-old. She was then told that the school expected three things, that the child was rested, that the food package was OK, and that the child could say good day. So the school would take care of the rest. It is an attempt to reconquer what in its time was called Protestant duty, but which in other ways can be understood as a mutual understanding between school and home of mutual rights and obligations. In the case of other aspects of this case, these are set out in the proposals. Perhaps the most important thing, which I will comment on, is the proposal that we are making, together with an overall committee, to draw up a state report on the content of school. We don't see it this way in the Left that it will be a bureaucracy. We see that this will just be an opportunity to discuss the content of the school locally. To put it another way: the school owner, by decision in Stortinget, does what has already been agreed between the social partners. In fact, the KS-Training Organisations Agreement states that targets should be set for school activities before adopting local working time and working time agreements. It's my impression that it's happening to a very small extent, so that when you make it clear that you're making such a state report and it's being discussed, in the Left's view, it's a very important measure to ensure that we have discussed the content of the school. It's also linked to a debate we had a few hours ago, about how we can act to combat and ward off bullying and keep a good social environment, while, of course, it will focus on what quality we have on the learning environment. With these comments, we'll vote as we've explained. There is an explanation at this time of the day through the proposals that have been taken up by others and where the Left is included in the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1031	I think I can say very carefully that I am pleased that there is such a broad majority behind most of the legislative amendments, and that I think that when it comes to the proposals that are otherwise inconsistency, the government has done well for its views.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1039	If a student with a minority background needs special education and needs extended training time, this law ensures that an extended period of up to two years is available. This is because the government parties and opposition in the Committee believe it is important that as many as possible be able to complete higher education. However, there is one group of these students with a minority background who need an extended opportunity, namely those who attend private schools, because today they do not want to be allowed to have the right to an extended training period. Will the Council of State take the initiative to also apply to this group of students, so that these students do not have to switch to a public school in order to complete their education?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1046	I think I need to get back to that question when I have looked at it more closely. That's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to tell you how we're going to follow up that problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1051	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor have any more people asked for the word on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 708]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1061	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1337	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1350	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Mr Skumsvoll, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from the Olemic Thommessen on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘A derogation relating to the limitation period shall be introduced in the context of the establishment of a new entitlement for soldiers who have served foreign operations, in order to be applicable from 1978, and to make the rights of those who have served from 1978 equivalent to those in force from 2010.’;» Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘A system with a maximum compensation of 65 G shall be established at 100 pst. long-term acquisition disability. The substitution is proposed to be reduced proportionately with the residual segregated capacity.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Right, sounds: ‘Promote objective liability for injured veterans under new Section 12(b) of the Defence Personnel Act shall apply to all defence veterans, including those who served before the entry into force of the Act.’; These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1453	Alternatively, between the recommendation from the Committee to the first and second paragraphs of Section 12a and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first and second paragraphs of Section 12a are replaced by the following: Personnel who serve and have served in international operations have, if necessary, the right to psychiatric and psychological follow-up from the Defence for five years after the end of service. The defence has an obligation to provide such follow-up and to ensure that the transition to the civil health system takes place in a manner that is reassuring to the personnel. The defence shall be obliged to offer other follow-up for five years after the end of service to the extent that it is reasonable in view of the health and financial situation of the personnel concerned, the duration of the service relationship and other circumstances.’;» The Christian People's Party has warned that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1473	There will be a vote on the I, Section 19 new third paragraph. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1486	It's going to be over the rest of I and over II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1495	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1504	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1511	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4 and 5, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case of full economic equality between private and public kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to facilitate the predictable and stable further operation of the Student Children’s Gardens.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to defer the transfer of financial responsibility for the kindergarten sector to the municipalities until the objective of full needs coverage has been achieved and full economic non-discrimination for private and public kindergartens has been established.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party, says: ‘The size asks the Government to propose guidelines that require all municipalities to have income graded parents’ payments for kindergartens.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1595	There will first be a vote between the recommendation from the Committee to Section 14 and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 14 is replaced by the following: § 14 Municipal grant to approved non-municipal kindergartens The municipality shall grant grants for the ordinary operation of all approved non-municipal kindergartens in the municipality. Approved non-municipal kindergartens, cf. the first subparagraph shall be treated in the same way as municipal kindergartens in relation to government grants. The king may lay down detailed rules as to what is meant by equal treatment. The municipality shall pay grants to approved non-municipal kindergartens to receive grants after the first or second subparagraphs in advance of each quarter until the municipality takes final decisions on grants. The decision of the municipality referred to in the second subparagraph may be appealed to the county.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1619	So it's going to be written over the sixth paragraph of Section 8 and the sixth paragraph of Section II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1628	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1637	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1644	During the debate, Mr Anundsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law 17 July 1998 No 61 on primary and secondary education I [[training law]] In Law 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: [[training law]] Paragraphs 2 to 10 shall be replaced by the following: Deportations from individual hours may, notwithstanding the above, be made to students who otherwise do not comply with the school’s rules of procedure. In such cases, disfellowshipping by the principal's authority may be adopted by the teacher. Paragraphs 3 to 8 shall be replaced by the following: Deportations from individual hours may, notwithstanding the above, be made to students who otherwise do not comply with the school’s rules of procedure. In such cases, disfellowshipping by the principal's authority may be adopted by the teacher. Section 4A-9 the following fourth paragraph is added: Deportations from individual hours may, notwithstanding the above, be made to students who otherwise do not comply with the school’s rules of procedure. In such cases, disfellowshipping by the principal's authority may be adopted by the teacher. II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1676	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:100 [[training law]] Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they will support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1697	During the debate, Mr Gåsvatn has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law 17 July 1998 No 61 on primary and secondary education I [[training law]] In Law 17 July 1998 No. 61 on primary and secondary education is amended as follows: [[training law]] Paragraph 8-2, first paragraph, is replaced by the following: Students can be divided into groups as needed. The breakdown must be pedagogical. Groups must not be larger than what is educationally and securityly defended. The organisation shall meet the social needs of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1719	Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:101 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1738	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: proposed no. 1 and 2, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 5 and 6, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7 and 8, by Mr Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 9, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that specially organised schools for disabled persons can apply to the Ministry for rent compensation.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up as soon as possible an overview of the subsidies received from the government, both the State, the counties and the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the school performance in the national tests is a compulsory part of the annual report on the state of primary and secondary education.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, Right and Left, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to ensure that all private schools providing secondary education in combination with top-level education are treated in a non-discriminatory financial way in relation to public schools with similar offers.’ Proposal No. 5, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The Government is asked to present a case in which the challenges of inactivity and lack of physical activity are monitored and analysed. This review shall be the starting point for the competence requirements to be set for the management of physical and physical activity in the school.’;» Proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for national standards on school teacher’s density.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1790	The proposal No will first be voted on. 7 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The new last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 13-5 of the Training Act shall be replaced by the following: it shall ensure equal rights to fruit and vegetables for all pupils in primary school.’ Proposal No. 8 reads: «School Act § 7-1 (c) new last sentence shall be replaced by the following: The regulation shall ensure equal rights to fruit and vegetables for all pupils in primary school.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e1815	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 6, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 13-5 of the Training Act and § 7-1(c) of the Private School Act shall be repealed.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2095	There will be a vote on § 1-3 and II new § 3-4a. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will speak against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2108	It is contested in the third paragraph of Section 2-3 and the second paragraph of Section 2-3. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2121	It shall be weighed over the rest of I and II and over III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2130	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2140	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-08-lower.ana.ud2532e2226	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
