ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e86	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the evening meeting be set at 1 p.m. 17. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e101	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e118	In spite of the fact that it is in the Committee's position, I should like, for the record, to state briefly that the questions raised by the proposers have been addressed by the Government in connection with the proposal for a new nature diversity law. On that basis, the Energy and Environment Committee has concluded that it is most natural to take the debate on this issue at the Odelstingen meeting later today at the Innst discussion. O. No 100 for 2008-2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e128	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e155	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e164	The proposals in Document No. 8:46 for 2008-2009 and Document No 8:49 for 2008–2009 addresses both issues of increased wreckage in order to stimulate the replacement of the car fleet. The emissions from road traffic are 19 pst. of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore obvious that emissions from the car fleet must have a high focus on meeting the objectives of the climate agreement. As is known, by 2020, the climate agreement has a national emission target of 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent compared to the reference track when forests are included. This requires clear action in several sectors. I expect the government parties to explain their views on the matter. The Minister for the Environment has also deliberately set the deadline for the EEAA Climate Change 2020 post-election review. We see this as a poor follow-up to the climate agreement. In this case, we see another example of the fact that government parties are most concerned about explaining what measures they think are not effective enough, rather than supporting new measures that could bring us closer to the goal. The majority point out in their comments that it is a more targeted climate action to influence the composition of the cars that people buy now and forward, as they should be on the roads for about 20 years on average, rather than shortening the lifetime of today's cars. Yes, there is a great deal of consensus in the hall that charges should be used to stimulate people to buy environmentally friendly cars. However, it is difficult to see a contrast between this and going in for a temporary increase in the wreckage of the oldest cars. Norway has among Europe’s oldest car parks with an average age of more than 10 years. Statistics from the Road Traffic Information Council show that by On 31 December 2007, almost 200,000 passenger cars were over 21 years of age. More and more EU countries are increasing their wreckage in an attempt to save the car industry. Germany has gone the longest with EUR 2 500 in a wreckage for cars over nine years of age. For those countries that are now increasing the wreckage as a means of strengthening the car industry, a payment is conditional on the purchase of a new low-emission car. It is the Christian People's Party's clear belief that the financial crisis must be used constructively to shape the low-carbon society of the future and more sustainable development. It is a challenge that environmental issues are easily overshadowed by the financial crisis. It is important to pay off for consumers to choose environmentally friendly solutions. In addition to increasing the wreckage, it is important to focus on measures that can facilitate lower emissions from road traffic in the future. There is reason to point out that the Government of the State budget for 2008 temporarily increased the wreckage to NOK 5000 for some 30,000 older diesel vehicles with particularly high particulate emissions. I would also like to show that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have voted for an environmental car premium of NOK 25 000 for car buyers who buy an environmentally friendly car in Norway. It is precisely the combination of higher wreckage, lower charges for environmentally friendly cars and environmental car premiums that will together increase the proportion of low-emission cars on Norwegian roads. This will therefore have a significant impact in total in achieving the 2020 climate agreement objectives, and therefore the Christian People’s Party supports these two representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e197	I would like to deal most with the representative proposal from the Right, Document No. 8:49 for 2008-2009, although the Progress Party also has a proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:46 for 2008-2009, which contains largely the same thing, but it is more concrete in relation to the sum of the wreckage. We find red-green not to be able to support any of these proposals, as they have tried this before, and the results were not as expected. Norway increased its savings deposit from DKK 1 000 to NOK 6000 in 1996. It helped, but the evaluation carried out by the Transport Economic Institute concluded that the environmental impact was transitory and small, so that this was not socio-economically profitable. We also had a temporary increase in the 2008 wreckage for older diesel vehicles with particularly high particulate emissions. Only 10 pst. was rejected during the period. That's good, but not good enough. We'll see what the evaluation of this says. It is important that after a wreckage period we can say that this was a good environmental measure, and that it is not just a help for car dealers to sell more cars. It is important, but in these times of financial crisis, we need to help them in a different and more appropriate way. Once again, we sell more cars, we also produce new cars, and this is not done without having greenhouse gas emissions. We have to input into the climate accounts the percentage of CO2 that comes from production, and not just calculate the difference in fuel consumption between old and new cars. I believe that the most important thing now is to think in the future. Technology and development are moving fast, and more and more will be driving with zero-emission cars in the future. But we're not in the big rush yet, and then I think it's time to wait with the big measures until we have the most in place in terms of the zero-emission vehicle. Then we have to add carrots. It doesn't help the climate that much if you switch to a little more environmentally friendly cars today. I think it is right for Norway to wait for developments in many countries in this field and not to create schemes that are not safe to work optimally. If we are going to go for wreckage solutions in addition to the NOK 1500 it is today, there must at least be temporary increases that give us plus in the climate accounting. With a permanent increase, even with large sums, many will probably postpone the wrecking of the car they have. This government has, among other things: started a conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. The one-off vehicle registration fee has been changed and we have been differentiated according to the environmental characteristics of the vehicle. We red-green will always work for an environmentally friendly car park, but the effects of measures must be measurable in terms of better environment and climate. That's why I think it's important to look across borders and learn from the other country will eventually succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e221	I know myself so well that I know I can forget to promote our proposal at the end of the post, and that's why I do it right away. This is about several things. It's about the environment, it's about safety and it's about car sales. I'll mention some other things as well. We have statistics that show that in Norway we have 200,000 cars over the age of 21 and 400,000 cars over the age of 16. This, along with the rest of the car park, makes us in the world's richest country have one of Western Europe's oldest car parks. Despite the fact that the debate in this room sometimes suggests the opposite, the environmental debate is about more than climate. It's also about the air quality in Norwegian cities, and that's where a large part of these 400,000 cars that are older than 16 are actually running today. I then react a little to what the representative Torny Pedersen from the Workers' Party said. We've got charges in place. The Labour Party and the Government are often the answer to all environmental challenges of charging. When other batches try to say that it might be a good idea to combine fees and whips with carrots and tax relief, there is little response to pick up from that edge. So the representative Pedersen said that we have to wait until even more environmentally friendly cars arrive before we can implement such an action. Then I think you deliberately choose to do the best for the good enemy. In this context, action could have been taken which had greatly improved the situation, not only in terms of emissions of CO2 but also in terms of emissions of substances that actually cause disease and, in part, serious health conditions in those who already have asthmatic challenges, for example. in big cities. I also react to the Workers' Party's representative talking about emissions outside Norway, that there are emissions associated with producing cars. So it's from a government party that's very busy talking about the cuts having to come to Norway. What is happening outside Norway is not so interesting when the Progress Party otherwise promotes environmental and climate action that has an impact outside the country. This is also about the safety of those who drive these cars. I note that in its letter to the Committee dated 30 April, the Council of State considers that due to the EEA verification, this proposal will only have a limited safety impact. I don't agree with that. I believe that we must all agree that a car 21–22–23–24 years old has a completely different starting point in terms of safety requirements and safety standards than a car that is of more recent date. There can be no doubt about it. Then, of course, one should never argue with the cost and price of life loss, but it is that the Transport Economic Institute has estimated the cost of life loss at 25 to 30 million. kr. Then we have put forward a proposal that is quite specific. We went into this debate with open eyes. We wanted a debate. We could have discussed how old these cars should be, if it were for petrol or diesel cars. We could have discussed the sum as well. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity to take that debate, because the government would immediately just reject the whole thing. That is why we concluded that we wanted to show action and promote a concrete proposal. At the end of this debate, I would just like to urge the Council of State to take another look at the management of the wreckage here in Norway. In my opinion, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that it is in the process of slipping out of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e243	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e246	The increase in the wreckage in 1996 resulted in the average age of the Norwegian car park being reduced by half a year, from 10.4 to 9.9 years. 211 000 cars were scrapped. Nevertheless, the Government refuses to lift the wreckage, despite the fact that the Council of State has stated the following: ‘Resilient wreckage of cars can bring such environmental benefits, especially if it can be targeted at older vehicles with very high particulate and NOx emissions.’ Norway has one of Europe’s oldest car parks, with an average age of over 10 years. We have 400,000 cars over the age of 16, and we have about 250,000 cars without a catalyst. It's a big problem, not just for the environment, air quality, in our biggest cities, but it's also a safety problem that we have so many older cars. That was also why the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on the basis of environmental criteria, agreed on an environmental car premium of NOK 25 000 for all car buyers who bought a new environmentally friendly car in Norway. However, it is the combination of higher parcels, lower charges for environmentally friendly cars and environmental car premiums that can contribute to a greater share of low-carbon cars on Norwegian roads. Norwegian climate emissions are too high and road traffic accounts for an excessive share of total emissions. If we're going to do something in this area, we don't just have to facilitate increased collective use, but we have to make sure that those who actually need a car get the opportunity to use it as environmentally friendly as possible. In Germany, it has gone so far that EUR 2 500 has been spent on wreckage for cars over nine years of age, as long as you buy a new car that meets the Euro 4 emission standard, or if you buy a car that is less than one year old. Nevertheless, the representative, Torny Pedersen, refers to other countries and wants to push Norway further behind and clearly out of the field of vision. But let me just refer the representative's attention to the United Kingdom, to Austria, to France and Italy, all of which are countries with a wreckage significantly higher than the Norwegian one, precisely because they see a value in getting older cars away from the roads, wrecked and preferably recovered. It is also possible for the representative Pedersen to learn from what is happening internationally. Maybe we can also get a state council that sees the same thing, and thus wants to build up under its own quote from earlier. The financial crisis can and must be used in the service of the environment. We have a unique opportunity to act now and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from car traffic. But that's how the representative Tord Lien also thought, that we have a security aspect here that we should never forget and never have to quantify in dollars and ears. The sum of better roads and newer cars means that more lives are also saved in traffic. So here's a potential to do something for both the environment and safety. That should make things better. I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e267	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e270	The representative, Torny Pedersen, has explained the majority’s view, and we have received a thorough letter from the Department that says something about why this is not a precise instrument in an environmental and climate perspective. I want to problem one relationship, and it's about what are environmentally friendly solutions. The representative of the Christian People's Party, Mr Holten Hemdal, who is the author of these motions for a resolution, has spoken on this matter, and the representative of the Right, Mr Gitmark, has also spoken. The two parties have agreed on a proposal to provide so-called cash support to people who want to buy environmentally friendly cars. Then I would like to problematize what it is. What is an environmentally friendly car? The Christian People's Party and the Right have defined it as cars that emit less than 120 grams of CO2 per person. Kilometres. The Christian People's Party has at least said that they want these so-called environmentally friendly cars to also have the opportunity to drive in collective fields, park for free and drive free in the bombing. This is today goods that only the electric car and the hydrogen car have, and that's a good reason for it. Nor will such a proposal take into account issues such as energy efficiency, which will become more important and important in future debates. Because we have to save on energy. What is also very special, especially with the electric car, is that it is extremely energy efficient compared to all other alternatives. It is completely unsurpassed – up to 90 pst. Of the energy that we put on an electric car, can be used to carry us around, while for a petrol or diesel car, the corresponding number is between 18 and 25 pst. The petrol or diesel car is terribly old-fashioned and inefficient compared to, for example: The electric car. Therefore, it is so important to ensure that we have some extra carrots for the alternatives that are very best in terms of energy efficiency, but also in terms of emissions directly from the car. We are unable to clean the emissions from each car, but we can, for example, clean emissions from a power plant or we can ensure that electricity comes from renewable and environmentally friendly sources. So the electric car in some variant -- whether it's an electric car or a plug-in hybrid car -- is going to be part of the solution in the future also because of energy efficiency. The wreckage proposal is also a question of success security, and it is a question of how we are going to use the community's resources. Is this a proposal that it is worth using, for example: one billion kroner — an amount mentioned in the response from the Ministry? Well, if it doesn't work according to purpose, I'd say it's waste. It can even work against its purpose, because it can be better to use a car for a longer period than to stimulate us to constantly make new cars, which also requires an extremely high amount of energy, especially if there are no electric cars or other types of cars that are very energy efficient and have no local emissions, nor necessarily have CO2 emissions. The Tord Line of the Advance Party is predictable. He's giving in to charges. That's what the Progress Party always does. I don't think that's very wise. Differentiated charges designed in a sensible and thoughtful way can be very effective in directing people's choices in a direction that benefits the community. What can be annoying charging policies for each of us can be important to achieve goals greater than our seas, which are about the community, or future generations, having some needs that we need to take into account. Removing all charges and all bombings deprives us of tools that can speed up, for example. to have electric cars, plug-in hybrid cars, hydrogen cars and other unsurpassed cars in terms of emissions and e.g. energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e293	Fossil energy used for transport is a significant part of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. If we are to achieve the climate objectives that we have seen, we need ambitious and powerful instruments in the transport sector. Today's development cannot continue. The annual reports of the Statistical Central Bureau still show a steady increase in emissions from the transport sector, although new cars are becoming increasingly rich in fuel consumption. In the years 1990–2007, emissions from road traffic increased by about 10 %. 2 pst. Every two years. From 2007 to 2008, it was only 0.4 pst. growth is increasing, but the decline in growth is probably the main financial crisis for which it is due. Emissions are expected to continue to increase. This happens even though the average emissions from passenger cars are falling steadily. The explanation is that even if each car drops out less, we run more and more, and we own more and more cars. We need powerful tools to reverse this trend. Introducing higher wreckage on old and impurising cars without any ambition about what type of cars to replace them on the roads is not the right medicine. We must have two thoughts in our head at the same time: on the one hand, we must get good solutions in order to reduce passenger car traffic and develop good collective options. The production of a car leads to almost as large emissions as the car emits during a three-year run. Now we're facing a technology shift. One does not need a crystal ball to see that the solution for the future is not cars that go on petrol and diesel – even if they are never that greedy – but cars that can run on non-emission options. Next generation environmental cars are on the way. Therefore, the centre party believes that it would be totally wrong to stimulate a large replacement of cars and therefore to buy more new cars with today's technology. New cars purchased now will be on average on our roads for 15 years to come. Thus, a major car replacement now, before a breakthrough of zero-emission cars and hybrids, even if the intention is good, could help to dampen the demand for today's electric cars or future plug-in hybrid cars when they come to market for a full time. For the climate, we need to see to it that most possible future cars can run free of emissions. If we get up the sale of cars without CO2 emissions, it will give immediate climate effect. The solution to this problem is not to increase the trash for the oldest and most impeccable cars. We are certain that environmental bombs must be removed from our roads, but they must be replaced by cars that can run on electricity or other emission-free alternatives. Plug-in cars are already coming in 2010 or 2011. We already have electric cars. There are such options with which the leading cars have to be replaced. That's why the Central Party's national meeting went in to give a full-time wreckage of NOK 40,000 if one buys an environmental car instead of a car with old technology. If we're going to get out of passenger car traffic far enough, we can't afford to go anywhere else. Nearly 80 pst. of our passenger car use are short trips, which can already be done with today's technology with electric cars. We have great ambitions for the production of new renewable energy, energy saving and energy efficiency in Norway, while at the same time wanting to reduce emissions from passenger car traffic. Therefore, there should be a large-scale electrification of passenger car traffic, and the means we use as politicians must be aimed at this. Electrification of passenger car traffic will not only be resource efficient, it will also be far more accurate as a measure than an ever-increasing blend of biofuels, which at worst help to distort vital food production and lead to an increase in food prices in a world where too many people are already not fed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e317	I will be directly and directly from the topic of this proposal. When a theme is important in the present, as the climate is, there is a tendency to promote a series of long-standing proposals on different tax changes in different areas of society, and then suddenly a new climate justification is given. These are proposals that make sense to a country with a large car industry, these are proposals that make sense in Germany, that have Audi and Volkswagen and many others, and that want to get the wheels going in the car industry. But as a climate proposal, it's an incredible waste of money. Should you succeed in this campaign, and for example. get half of the cars wrecked according to this, it will cost NOK 2 billion. It is no coincidence that none of the opposition parties have included this in their budgets up to now, with all reservations that there may be some confession I have not studied. But as I see it, no one has promoted it, because the cost of it is not related to the potential environmental benefit. So the proposal itself is to spend an incredible amount of money for minimal environmental benefits. It has also been documented by the study carried out by the Transport Economic Institute on a similar proposal in 1996, in which it became clear that there is a lot of money, very little demonstrable gain, and that is socio-economically very unprofitable. At the top of it comes that the time is the worst possible, because the cars that would now possibly be bought new will at least go on Norwegian roads for 15 years. If they go as long as those who are being rejected, they go on Norwegian roads for 20 years. This means that in 2009 the car fleet will be tied up until 2025, perhaps up to 2030. One then binds to cars that are not electrical, and are not plug-in hybrid cars, just before they come to the Norwegian market. Then you have to do this, it has to be at the time when there are ordinary family cars that are electrical, that people can easily go over to. It may be the time to assess these types of arrangements, because it will then have a significant environmental impact in relation to the cost. One must also bear in mind, as Mr Sande and several others have been involved, that 15-20 pst. the climate emissions of a car come from the actual process of creating it. And that's also going to have to be included. So let's review this proposal again in two to three years, when the environmental cars, the electric cars where you can have three children in the back seat and full luggage rooms with suitcases, are on the market. Then the time may be right in. So ask the opposition, what are we going to do instead? Well, let me say three things. We need to reduce the need for transport. A brilliant example, which I've been to Stortinget before, is the Norway Group, Norway's biggest chain, with Kiwi and other brands, if I don't remember wrong. They say they should be able to reduce their emissions from a giant car fleet of hundreds of cars by 40 pst, just using better logistics, better packaging and transition to another fuel. Then we're going to have a transition to public transport, and it's an area where I also want to give parts of the opposition honor. We're getting our way to Bergen, I hope we can get together to get to a city track in Stavanger, and in Oslo we've managed to get the share of collective travellers. All three of these three are municipalities where the right has a large share of the board. They've needed pressure from the opposition all these places to get it to, but they've been able to work together to do it. Of course, the third is that we have to make a transition to a better car park. But we must not prejudge the big environmental revolution that comes with electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars, maybe also with hydrogen and other fuels. So how do you get the electric cars in fast enough, when only the factories make them? Remember that Norway is a leading country in this area. Think, Buddy, Umweltbil Grenland, all three are important producers. One of the reasons why the international car industry is interested in Norway as a precursor country is that the collective fields are reserved for electric cars, on which Inga Marte Thorkildsen was involved. If we reserve the collective fields for all other cars as well, it is no longer a collective field where buses arrive quickly, and for electric cars. Then the buses get slower, the benefits of an electric car get much smaller, and the reality is that the gain you had is gone. What was two fields on the highway suddenly becomes three, pretty much the same. So what we have to do is get a fast introduction of charging stations for electric cars, and when mass car production comes, we have to change the charging system so that we get in as fast as possible. Finally, let me comment on Tord Lien's thoughts on more dialogue with the industry on how to improve waste management and scrapping in the car industry. I very much want a dialogue both with Lien and with the industry about this. That dialogue is in progress, but we can do more in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e337	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e340	Let me express my appreciation for the very short constructive input of the Council of State at the end. He talked about the good examples from Oslo and Bergen, who are the Right Party and the Advance Party. The examples from Trondheim, which are run by the Workers' Party and SV, are not as good. But let's hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party for the sake of the climate will also be taken over there in 2011. Governments call this measure expensive and poor. Helen Bjørnøy did not agree. She said several times that if it wasn't necessarily numerically attached, then this could be a good idea just to get the car park replaced faster. Governments are responsible for the costs. Then it could be timely to ask if the Council of State has calculated the costs of a ban on petrol cars, which he intends to introduce in 2015, because that is what SV and several of the other parties have said they want. I simply want to ask the Council of State: when are we going to introduce something in line with the proposal that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e351	Let me just first say that in a sudden attack of kindness, I also tried to praise some areas in Norway that have been driven by the opposition. Trondheim is, of course, even more effective in this area. A comprehensive plan has just been presented, in which the Government is also involved, on how to speed up the transformation of the entire traffic through various forms of charging system, which is certainly opposed to the Progress Party, but which will have an even better impact than I mentioned. But it is nice that good things can also happen in right-hand and bourgeoisly overthrown cities. Nor has it always been the Progress Party that has been the driving force in these places. In the case of car scrapping: The new problem that has come up and that has not been adequately addressed is of course, among other things. the large data content of new cars. If you scrape a 20-year-old car and a one-year-old car that has been in an accident, then there are two completely different worlds. What we need to have a new dialogue with the industry about, and new tools for, is what we do with all the data components in new cars, which often contain pollutants, but which today are not an effective system for dealing with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e358	The Christian People's Party wants to make it easier to choose environmentally friendly cars. It's important when we're going to approach the low-emission society. That is why we have a package of lower taxes on environmentally friendly cars, we have an environmental car premium, and we also have a temporary increase in the price of wreckage. The councils had three examples in their article, one of which goes on with private carism, and that's where we have focus today. The council says we should have a transition to a better car park, but we should not prejudge this. I think it's a little passive, so I'm going to challenge the state council on the following in the line change: What package does the state council and government have in terms of facilitating environmentally friendly cars today, when people today are going to choose which car they're going to drive tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e365	As the questioner is well known, the charging system has been systematically reformed over this four-year period to anticipate the more environmentally friendly alternatives currently available, at the expense of the less environmentally friendly alternatives currently available. I also notice that the questioner goes all the way around what was my main concern: when you're going to take action to get people to buy new cars that they're going to sit with for 15-20 years, isn't it stupid to do it one or two years before the really environmentally friendly cars get on the market? That means that Mrs. Hansen or Mr. Solheim buys a car that you're going to have until 2025, and continues to run on fossil fuels. So if Mrs. Hansen waits for two years, you can get an electric car that you're sitting with by 2027, which is a completely different environmental benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e372	In an incubation, the Council of State did not answer Lien's real questions, which went a little bit on what the Council of State itself believes would be a time for possibly establishing a system in line with what the Right has proposed. The government's argument is that it would be wrong to lock people into old-fashioned technology instead of letting them switch to hybrid electric cars. Does this mean that the Council of State is open to such an instrument use once in the future? And if so, when will SV support such an instrument use? I refer to SV at his country meeting saying that from 2015 there would be a ban on the sale of cars that only use petrol and diesel as fuel. In today's debate, the Council of State does not mention this year, he says it will happen when the market makes this possible. No one in the car industry believes in 2015. Many believe in a few years later. Does this mean that the Council of State is willing not to introduce a ban on petrol in 2015, but let it come when the market can actually offer such cars, at prices that consumers can afford to pay? For it is always possible to impose a ban, and say that everyone has to buy one or two products that are on the market, but they can quickly become very expensive. I would like to hear the State Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e379	I have put forward two important arguments against doing this now that no one has really contradicted in the debate. One is that it's socially extremely unprofitable. So you'll be able to throw away billions of dollars that should have been spent on other climate action, on a measure that has no real climate policy justification. The second is that it's very stupid to do this now, when you might get the really environmentally friendly cars in a few years' time. I am willing to discuss this question again then, because then there is a completely different situation. Then there's a drastic environmental gain by going from the old cars you're sitting with today to brand-new electric cars. It may even be thought that it is socio-economically profitable because the reduction in emissions is a drastic difference, and not in the same way as today, where there is a small socio-economic gain. So let's discuss this again in 2011–2012, when it might be socio-economically profitable. Let's not do it at the wrong time, and at a time when we're just throwing a lot of money out of the window.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e388	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e393	I will not extend this debate, but I will show that it is right that the Christian People's Party has made proposals on the environmental car premium, a premium of NOK 25 000 for the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. We have so far set a ceiling for emissions of 120 g CO2 per. kilometers travelled. We have also said that when we see that the cars are becoming more and more environmentally friendly, we must constantly look at where we are going to put this roof, because we are going to introduce the environmentally friendly cars and get the industry to go that way. But it has also been important for us to present a slightly larger package, because we have been the drivers of this with changes in fees for environmentally friendly cars, given that we also now want to increase the wreckage temporarily. As the representative of Thorkildsen picked up, an electric car is a good alternative. There is no disagreement between SV and the Christian People's Party on electric car. That is why we have also been impatient and challenged by the Government about this with charging stations, which were now included in the crisis package. We have also challenged the Government to support the conversion of both cars and buses that can go on biogas, which we have produced around the country. We know that this conversion costs 500,000 kroner for a bus, and it is a financial burden for many bus companies that they cannot carry. This Christian People's Party has taken up earlier in this Chamber. Today, this Tuesday, many homes are discussing changing cars. Then I think it's environment, it's security, and there's room considering how many of them are in the family, which is crucial. And then we know that it's a lot of luxury. But I think it's these three things I mentioned, which are crucial to many. We also look at the statistics that the few cars purchased today, or tomorrow, will be in use with the same one for over 15 years. It's a much shorter horizon for changing cars, and that's why I think it's important to have a slightly more nuanced view of that part of the debate. I also note that the Central Party will vote against its own national meeting proposal, which was to increase the wreckage to NOK 40 000, because they will wait and see, wait until a later time when they think it is more accurate. But it's just to record that there's a programme for a new period that's going on, and not leading this debate that the Central Party is taking with it from the national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e416	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[See page 3465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e433	We're going to deal with a similar case in Odelstinget later today. The content of these matters is so similar that the committee has actually chosen to take one debate, and then we take that debate in Odelstinget on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e438	Since I am in Lagtinget, I have no opportunity to say what I think about motorized travel in Odelstinget, so I thought that I could keep the post now in Stortinget, since the matter was dealt with. From time to time, Stortinget deals with a type of matter that is very suitable for producing contradictions between central bureaucracy and power apparatus and district Norway. Motorised travel in the field is one of the best. Here one gets the impression that one centrally believes that every resident in District Norway loves horsepower, rowed engines and will release this completely free, unless some peace-loving central bureaucrat holds his protective hand over development and protects District Norway from itself. Motorised driving must be one of the most investigated and discussed issues that this government has handled. It says mostly about the government's paralysis of action in the matter and little about the importance and size of the matter. The matter is important to many in District Norway, but it can hardly be said to be vital to the country. There have been many remarkable things. It requires good, central bureaucratic imagination to prohibit the farmer from driving tractors on snow-covered land, as a draft law would have resulted. Now everything has to be postponed after the elections, despite the fact that more district-based politicians in all government parties have come up with clear views that authority has to be delegated locally. Or maybe that's exactly why? With respect to reporting, here you are at the central level very far away from reality. This is a kind of administration and responsibility that local democracy will manage in an excellent way. The pilot projects launched in the last government period show precisely that. Getting responsibility locally also gets legitimacy locally. Without legitimacy locally, a policy and a law will not be able to succeed. Local trials just show that delegating authority locally reduces the number of illegal driving. It'll be self-discipline also in the engine environments. There is an active local debate on where to open this up and where to give priority to other values such as peace, the environment and peace. Turning the whole engine environment in Norway into a paria caste will also alienate a large proportion of the population for what most understand well: Motorised outlanding must take place within a sound framework. Let me also remind you that the sales of snowmobiles and quadricycles are increasing quite sharply. Somewhere they're driving. That the centre party has not been able to resolve this matter during the period, must be flat for the lot. Being able to manage its own field and its own values is a lot of District Norway close. I don't think the Center Party has completely left it. Pushing the decision to post-election is only a rail manoeuvre so as not to clarify the contradictions inherent in government cooperation at this point. Finally, a small reminder of what kind of motorised traffic management in outland we are not going to have in Norway. It is the central bureaucracy and the county council's assessment capacity that comes into focus here. It should not be completely unknown to the government parties that we have had a few rounds of rally World Cup in Norway – the President knows it very well at least. The Prime Minister is one of its biggest sponsors and supporters. During the first round of the rally World Cup, several operators wanted to be allowed to use snowmobiles to run out supplies to customer arrangements they would have along the way. It was connected locally, but was immediately stopped by the county. In this case, rally cars were supposed to be milling around Norwegian forests, while a businessman could not use a scooter to try to earn a few kroner in connection with the event. Even worse, the Prime Minister was allowed to land with a helicopter in the middle of the nature reserve in Åkersvika, Hamar. It was important for the Prime Minister to be able to participate by providing room for the opening event in a busy calendar. I think everyone understands that. But it helped put these questions in a strange light. The management of this will be well done locally. By requiring it to take place within some national frameworks and stimulating local debate, this will be done in a good way that creates legitimacy. The Council of State spoke in the previous case of cost-benefit ratios with measures taken around the car and the environment. He should transfer the arguments to this theme. This creates centralisation, no gains, just abstinence and distance to many communities that are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e461	Will the representative Gundersen address the proposal from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e464	Yes, then I take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e469	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e472	As the rapporteur explained, the Committee on Energy and the Environment had an intention to take this debate in Odelstinget. When the Right nevertheless chooses to hold its post in Stortinget, I would just briefly say that I shall argue for our proposal, which we promote in Odelstinget, in the debate in Odelstinget. But I have to say, even for the record, that regardless of whether the Right's proposal today had received 169 votes in this room, which I don't think it's very likely that it gets, it wouldn't have led to any change in the law on motor travel. The rule of law would have been exactly the same. I am of course disappointed that the Right has previously communicated that they do not support our proposal for a new law on motor travel that we are promoting in Odelstinget. Then in Odelstinget I will come back to our argument for our proposal to the Right and the Government Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e479	The case leader has said that we will come back to this matter in the debate in Odelstinget. Now it was that the representative Gundersen and Right chose to raise the debate here, and then I thought it was right that I take the floor on behalf of the Center Party, as the attack in the first row was directed towards the Center Party. This debate agrees with the predatory debate that the representative Gundersen is high on the ground both in attacks on the Central Party and also by communicating a policy and rhetoric that others in the Right do not always stand behind. I will return to the centre party's position in connection with the debate in Odelstinget and also show that this is a matter with which the government is now working. Then comes the conclusion of the debate in Odelstinget and also the conclusion of the Government's work as the basis for the further debate relating to motor travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e488	The representative Lien is wrong if he says that it does not matter whether the Right's proposal in this case is adopted or one. Of course it does. If the Right’s proposal receives a majority, the Government is required to present a bill in line with the political principles we base here. It is problematic that the Progress Party in this matter, without consultation and without a thorough review in advance, makes almost a complete proposal for law and wants the Storing with blindfolds to vote in favour or against the proposal. Fortunately, Norway has a democratic structure that makes it the government that has the political initiative to make major legislative changes. That principle should not be overlooked in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e497	It is a lovely exercise by the representative Sande to try to claim that I am making proposals that are not supported by the Right. As far as I know, all the proposals put forward by the Right in the Stortinget are approved by the Group Board in the Right. It's the right behind them. In the light of your own bad conscience, you don't have to try to insinuate that I am doing something that the Right does not support. It is Right that has promoted this Document No. The 8 proposal, and that should also be dealt with by the representative Sande.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e504	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[See page 3466]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e521	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e530	In Document No: 8:68 am asked the Government to reverse the application to allow full-year oil transhipment operations in Bøkfjorden/Korsfjorden. An important premise in this case is that Stortinget has established Bøkfjorden as a national salmon fjord. The decision provides for a specific protection regime for the watercourses and fjords covered by the scheme and there shall be no permitted activities with a risk of serious pollution likely to damage the wild species. The size has provided details of the exercise of authority and updated the protection regime through the treatment of St.prp. No 32 for 2006-2007 on the protection of the wild species and the completion of national salmon and salmon fjords. In the case of the re-loading of petroleum products, it is necessary, in the light of risk analyses, to consider in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis whether the activity presents a risk of serious contamination likely to affect the wild species. Salmon will be particularly vulnerable as smolt between June and September, and protective measures are particularly important during this period. When assessing whether to authorise an establishment under the pollution law, the SFT or the Ministry shall pay attention to the pollution disadvantages of the measure in conjunction with the benefits and disadvantages that the other measure would bring. In this context, the risk of damage to the wild species and other natural values in the area is a central disadvantage, which must therefore be assessed against industrial development and value creation. This assessment is now under consideration in the Ministry of the Environment, and it is therefore not natural for the Storting to take a final position on this matter at this stage. In May 2006 the Ministry of the Environment granted a temporary permit to ships for the transhipment of Russian gas condensate in Bøkfjorden/Korsfjorden in the municipality of Sør-Varanger. Transhipment between 1 June and 1 September was not permitted for salmon meal in the spring. At the same time, the Ministry said that alternative sites had to be assessed in the event of future transhipments. SFT rejected on 6 December 2006 the request of the Church Transit for further re-loading in Bøkfjorden, while at the same time allowing transhipment from ship to ship in Sarnesfjorden/Kåfjorden in the municipality of Nordkapp. The Ministry of the Environment decided on 29 June 2007 to convert the decision of the SFT to refuse re-loading in Bøkfjorden, and the Kirkenes Transit was granted a temporary re-loading authorisation from 15 October to 1 June. The deadline was in accordance with the request from the Church Transit, and it is therefore not right to say that the company was refused the application for full-year reloading. On 31 July 2008, the SFT authorised Ship Cargo AS to re-load petroleum products in the municipality of Bøkfjord in South Varanger by means of ships and ships to ships. The permit was limited to the winter season – from 15 October to 1 May, for heavier oil products, and from 15 October to 1 June for light oil products – in order to protect the salmon during the most vulnerable period of melt. The decision has been appealed by the company and the nature protection association, and the complaint is now pending in the Ministry of the Environment. I further point out to the Council of State that it is therefore not correct that the Ministry of the Environment has rejected the application for full-year activities since the decision has not yet been taken. On this basis, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e558	The representative proposal from the Progress Party on the oil loading of Russian oil in Bøkfjorden at Kirkenes is not a new issue. This was discussed extensively when the Committee raised the issue of the completion of national salmon river and salmon fjords for consideration in 2007. The conclusion was that this was too risky compared to the fact that Bøkfjorden is a national salmon fjord, adopted at Stortinget in 2003 through Innst. S. No 134 for 2002–2003. In 2007, the majority of the Committee, all but the Right, said in the context of the finalisation of national salmon waters and salmon fjords, Innst. S. No 183 for 2006-2007, that the consideration of the wild species must always weigh the most heavily in salmon fjords, but that different activities which do not hinder the development of the wild species must be carried out in national salmon fjords. We might say that a reloading of oil from ship to ship could be a threat to the environment in general if an accident occurred, especially for the wild axis of this area, as the salmon population in Neidenelva is in the influenza area of Bøkfjorden. I am pleased that a large majority in Stortinget agrees on this matter, and that it is a precautionary principle. Here both the Red-Green, Christian People's Party and Left are united, and one agrees that reloading is difficult compared to salmon. There have been many rounds of both the State Pollution Control Agency (SFT) and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in this case, and the case has not yet been concluded. But I believe that in any case you should stick to the facts, and it is not right that the matter has been dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment for three and a half years, as the Progress Party and the Right say in a comment. The question to the then state councillor Helen Bjørnøy related another matter, namely the Church's transit. It took the SFT off, and rejected, but was allowed to reload the Sarnesfjord in the municipality of Nordkapp. The Ministry of the Environment also converted this rejection in June 2007. The refusal of the Right Party and the Advance Party re-writes in the setting was rejected by the SFT – not by the Ministry of the Environment. What is right is that there is now a complaint in the Ministry of the Environment regarding this case sent over from the SFT on 22 August and 30 September 2008 respectively, but it is from Ship Cargo AS. In this house it is allowed to be honest in its claims. But what history says is really immaterial. What is now important is that there is a complaint in the Ministry of the Environment from the company on the one hand, and from the Nature Conservation Association on the other. I take it as a matter of course that in the work on the complaint both the wild axis and the natural values are balanced against the development of industry and value creation. Actually, this case should not have been in Stortinget at all, as it goes without saying that the Stortinget should not make a decision in a complaint case that is being dealt with in the department. This is also known by those who are proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e575	It is amazing that you want to talk about the procedure and procedure instead of dealing with a specific matter. It would be thought that most people understand the importance of robust communities in Finnmark, but unfortunately we experience that today's government does not take seriously its task of expanding workplaces and communities. There are far more arguments in favour of an oil reloading at Kirkenes than there are arguments against. The reason why the fjord system in the municipality of South Varanger was chosen after thorough professional assessments for oil transhipment was precisely that this is the region's poorest and safest waters. The state losers are raining Korsfjorden, Bøkfjorden, and then Varangerfjorden as ice-free. Boats of up to 350000 deadweight tonnes may arrive without problems. The churches have the necessary infrastructure, and the distance between Norway and Russia is short. The environmental benefits are quite obvious. Oil tanks are drawn into sparse waters under controlled conditions. The need for transshipment in the high seas/space seas is limited. The coastal traffic of oil and gas tankers along the coast of Finnmark is reduced by 40 pst. The preparedness across the region would be increased. Berlevåg, Båtsfjord and Varangerfjorden – Bordere Jakobselv in particular and Finnmark in general – would be introduced with the most modern in equipment, technology and rope boat preparation. The reason is not that the oil and gas transport stop along the Finnish coast if Stortinget rejects all-year oil transhipment in Bøkfjorden. On the contrary, in isolation it will increase by 40 pst. with a background in the rejection. The need to transport oil and gas from Russian oil fields will not diminish with the first. On the contrary, it will intensify. And then I haven't included the increased preparedness we need, for example. Tauboat and bilge capacity related to ship traffic in the northeast, which will shorten the distance from China, Japan and Korea to Europe, the United States and Canada by 40 pst. As I see it, the government does not have the ability to think completely and predictability in the handling of this matter. It seems that preparedness is something we should think about many years after the demand for increased preparedness is actually present. The government justifies the refusal in respect of national salmon fjords. National salmon fjords were adopted by the Stortinget to prevent the mixing of farmed salmon and wild salmon, not to stop oil transhipment or ship traffic. Has no one from the red-greens understood this? Why should it be accepted that fjords such as Trondheimsfjorden and other national salmon fjords are allowed to operate and reload oil and diesel, while the fjord system in South Varanger is not authorised? Then we must remember that both Trondheimsfjorden and Bøkfjorden as such are national salmon fjords. We must not become so theoretical that we believe that oil transhipment is technically a very complicated matter. Oil reloading is taking place every day throughout the world, including in Norway. Northern areas are important, and cooperation with Russia is of the utmost importance, asserting today's government. The progress party agrees, but then it is impossible to understand the basis for the refusal. This one pilot project between Russian, American and Norwegian actors, where the framework contract was DKK 6.4 billion, could have been the third largest industrial agreement in Finnmark. Does the Government understand the scope of this? The decision on a no to oil transhipment does not give the North population positive feedback from the Government. It also does not build good relations with Russian and American business interests. What we are experiencing, on the other hand, is inconsistency, amateurism and an absenteeism – the red-green politicians continue the vocal treatment that the northern part of the country has experienced in the last 50 years, where removal and protection are the main ingredients. Perhaps it is better to distribute crisis packages than it is to set up industry in terms of power policy? I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e594	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e597	There is no doubt that the management plan for the Barents Sea, including the Lofoten and the Western Sea and associated sea areas, will be based on knowledge. There is no evidence that oil transhipment in this case, when we talk about Kirkenes and Bøkfjorden, will cause a strain on the wild axis of Neidenelva. That's what has to be the nucleus. It has always been clear that with regard to the protection of national salmon fjords, the intention has, of course, been to strengthen the wild salmon population. By granting a fjord status as a national salmon fjord, it is not intended to prevent other activities in the fjord unless this would be detrimental to the wild species. On the contrary, it has been established on repeated occasions by the Ministry of the Environment that shipping should be able to operate unhinderedly in national salmon fjords. This can be seen daily in some of Norway’s national salmon fjords — which were also mentioned in the previous speeches — for example. in Trondheimsfjorden, in Sognefjorden or in Wefsnfjorden, to mention it as such, which is handled differently from that of the Churches. The background to the selection of the Kirkenes – with oil activity on the Russian base south of Novaja Semlja – is precisely based on the fact that there are the best climatic conditions there and that the lack of ice-free port in Russia has made it necessary to re-load on the Norwegian side. The refusal to reload the condensate in Bøkfjorden has led to parts of the condensate being transferred to Honningsvåg, with the financial burdens and other disadvantages that may result. So, as previous speakers have pointed out, the transport – as a result of the move – to the port of the Finnish coast has increased by about 40 pst. This is no new matter. I also registered that it was said that one should deal with the facts and behave fairly in this case. I don't think that's a problem. In fact, there is a strong need for one’s practice of managing commercial activities in and around salmon fjords. It is also a fact that these questions have been addressed — which is now the fourth year — and yet some clarification is not available. If this is a normal standard of procedure, I will not comment so much on this matter, but there is a strong need for clarification. What we're going to record is increased activity. We will have increased ship traffic and transhipment activity in locations that are closest and where the risk is least. Greenhouse gas emissions will be much lower than today. The activity could also contribute to the build-up of depots and preparedness, which could significantly reduce the disadvantages and risks. So I just want to encourage the Department and the Council of State to come up with a case – and not wait for another four years – about a common practice for the management of industrial activities in national salmon fjords.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e612	In politics, some things are simple. Normally there are issues where the right is against the wrong, or where all the arguments speak in one direction. Then you have things that are difficult, because good consideration has to be weighed against each other. This is such a matter, in my opinion. There is no doubt that many of the arguments put forward here – both by the Progress Party and by the Right – are highly relevant and shared by the government parties. It is important to provide industrial activities to South Varanger and East Finland, which are an essentially economically poor area and need more business. As part of the Norwegian North Region Initiative, it is important to have an industrial activity in this area. For good reasons, it can also be stated that it is more environmentally sound and better that the transhipment takes place in Norway, with a very strict regulatory framework, than alternative transhipments. So there's no doubt that there's a lot of good arguments to allow oil transfer. I ask that it also be accepted that there are good arguments for not allowing it. It is the Stortinget that has taken plenary decisions to establish Bøkfjorden as a national salmon fjord. The size has said that general shipping does not pose an unacceptable risk, but has also asked for risk to be assessed, especially in cases such as this – as the rapporteur and others have also pointed out. I think that's all reason to assume that the risk of significant accidents is relatively small. On the other hand, if an accident should occur to some extent, it could have serious consequences for the wild. Again, there are good arguments for both views in this case, both those of the companies, who want such a permit, and the nature protection association, who have filed a complaint in the case. If the Government's conclusion is that we should allow a total re-loading in Bøkfjorden, there are also some questions that report: Is this compatible with the status of salmon fjord, or does the Government have to come back to Stortinget and ask that Bøkfjorden cease to be a national salmon fjord? And, of course, in any case, one has to ask: What are the maximum safety measures that can be taken to prevent the re-loading of summer time, during the melt season, from adversely affecting salmon? It can be expected that exceptional measures will be taken in relation to the location of transhipments in the spring, etc.? All of these factors are the reason why it has taken some time to make this decision, although not in as long as it is claimed by the Progress Party – it is, as the case-leader was inside, completely wrong. So this is one thing where – as I see it – very good arguments stand against each other, and we have to weigh them against each other. Even if we were to conclude that reloading should be allowed, further measures need to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e632	I have two questions. One question is: What is the reason why the fjord system in South Varanger, with Bøkfjorden, is treated differently from other national salmon fjords in Norway? So the government is talking about it wanting to follow a precautionary principle. Is it in accordance with a precautionary principle that we have today added the oil transfer to Honningsvåg, which means that we get 40 pst. increasing the transport of oil and gas to coastal areas in Finnmark — instead of recharging oil in Bøkfjorden?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e641	The questions that were raised here – also by Ivar Kristiansen – are precisely what it is important to look at. It is not such that the same can apply to all salmon fjords. It is not possible to have national salmon fjords — and then everything shall be allowed. That's also why we need to take a closer look at this. If one were to conclude that this oil reloading would be allowed, what would that mean for the national protection regime for salmon fjords? Can it be reconciled with the fact that Bøkfjorden is a salmon fjord, or should it then lose its status as salmon fjord? It's not identical to what's going on there, and what's going on elsewhere. It is important to discuss where the protection regime is now to be located. I do not ignore the fact that we should come back to Stortinget and look more at the whole of this. It may need to be in the next period. As far as the precautionary principle is concerned, I noticed with considerable interest that the leader of the Progress Party – the only Norwegian party, and one of the very few international parties – withdrew from this principle at the Bellona Conference last week, with an opinion that we are going to have ample opportunity to come back to in the election campaign, because it is really boring to Norwegian environmental movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e651	The precautionary principle I will come back to later. The fact that there must be safety requirements for any activity of this type is clearly evident. I believe that it must be independent of whether it is a national salmon fjord or not. I hope the Council of State agrees with that. However, the plenary decision on the protection of national salmon fjords has a wording stating that measures that do not threaten the wild species shall be permitted in national salmon fjords. Then the Council of State talked about the precautionary principle. It is very good, but a unanimous increase has agreed that the management plan for the Barents Sea should be based on knowledge-based management. If the conditions are set against each other – i.e. measures that do not threaten the wild species should be allowed and knowledge-based management should be taken into account for the management of these marine areas – what knowledge does the Council of State have that indicates that oil transhipment could threaten the wild species?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e658	As I was in my post -- and it's not just this situation, it's a lot of situations -- it's often a relatively small risk of an accident, but if an accident happens on a large scale, the consequences will be very big. Without me being an expert on this, I think that's what you're facing here. I do not think the risk of large emissions is high, but if it does, it can have very serious consequences for the wild species. That's the balance that has to be made here. The pre-goods principle does not mean that any hypothetical, theoretical, minimum threat of action should be taken. Then you wouldn't be able to do any of the world's things. The pre-goods principle means that you have to have the maximum available knowledge, you have to have all the eventualities on the table and then try to assess the risk of something wrong, in combination with the assessment of the extent of the negative effect if the worst-case malfunction occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e665	To the Minister's notice: I can inform you that when it came to emissions in Bøkfjorden, it was actually the Progress Party and SV that formed a majority against the Workers' Party. So it's not that to understand that we don't have an environmental policy. I want to go back to the question of transporting oil and gas along the Finnish coast. We must all agree that there is a potential risk. When you have an opportunity to carry out an oil transfer in sparse waters, in hundreds of percent controlled forms, the government chooses to place a potential risk on the rest of the coast of Finnmark. How does this relate to an environmental perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e672	I was a little surprised by an item in the post. It is based on the fact that this decision has been taken. The decision has not been taken. I made very good arguments here both as to why transhipment should be allowed and as to why it should not be allowed. I also said that if the Government were to come to the conclusion that a reload should be allowed, it would also have to look at remedial measures. So there's no conclusion. So we can't discuss that on that basis. As I said, it may well be that the conclusion is that we allow this reloading. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, I would say that they have no environmental policy in any way. The Progress Party has – and they should have credit for it – a number of big business representatives with a commitment to the wilderness axis, and that is positive. But the party is not close to having any environmental policies. When the leader of the party can go out and say that the leading commodity-principle is only clothing and customs, it is boring on the Norwegian environmental movement that has spent decades building up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e679	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e684	I thought we were about to have a constructive debate on several issues in this Chamber. Then the Council of State came drawing with VG as a witness of truth when it came to a quotation from the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen. If we're going to have debates in this room about what we've read in more or less serious Norwegian newspapers, I'm fine. In fact, Siv Jensen said that we have now come past the discussion on whether we should act, but we need to discuss what measures are reasonable. That debate we have tried to bring Erik Solheim and other members of the government parties, but unfortunately we are often faced with inaccuracies. If Erik Solheim, instead of reading VG and other amusing things, had read the position on the Natural Diversity Act, which we are going to discuss later today, he would have seen that the party – the Progress Party – for which Siv Jensen is both a member and a parliamentary leader, supports the introduction of Section 9 of the Natural Diversity Act, i.e. lead the var-principle. I hope that that debate will bring back a slightly more factual approach and with quotations from more accurate sources than the Council of State put on the table in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e693	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 7, 8 and 9 are dealt with together – and consider it adopted. [[See page 3466]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e736	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e745	When we submitted the climate agreement in the winter of 2008, there was some concern that the Norwegian climate debate would be put to death. We said at the time that it was incredibly important that consensus on common objectives and measures should not become a sleeping pad. So I am happy for every opportunity we get to discuss climate policy in this room – and that is in itself a tribute to all the proposers behind the three proposals that we have to debate now. We had a good opportunity to do that in the context of the climate policy statement, and I think it is very good that we now receive annual reports on the status of climate work in Norway, and I hope that there will be a well-established institution in Stortinget. The climate agreement shall be reviewed and, in the light of new knowledge of climate change, new technologies shall be made available. This will take place in the light of the kind of commitments we will have in the implementation of the renewable directive, and not least what a new global climate agreement will look like. The job started in SFT in cooperation with the SSB, the State Road Administration, the Oil Directorate and the NVE, with the Climate Health Service, will be extremely important. It will provide a starting point for the new discussions on climate, which a new expansion will have to take place. They have been given a deadline for November, and the aim of the Climate Action Programme is to turn all the stones around, look at all the conceivable and unimaginable instruments, calculate their effectiveness and their cost. It's almost so I get a little envious of those who are going to do that job. In 2010, we will review the climate agreement. Then we're in the middle of the Kyoto period, and so it's a very natural intermediate station. This makes us have a plan, and of course, it's a plan that commits. It is a plan that covers all emission sectors and all underlying agencies, and they naturally follow up the climate commitments that Norway has, the goals that we have set for ourselves. It is done through letters of assignment, and it is done through governance dialogue. If you choose to call it a plan or a master plan, you don't, as I see it, have any other than linguistic interest. That being said, it is essential that we be able to keep the discussion alive on what is going to be revised, what possible new goals should be, and not least what kind of action we are going to take. I think it's important to look at the balance between the use of market-based instruments and more direct governance, between what we're going to do out there, and what we're going to do at home, and how fast we're going to move Norway towards a low-carbon society. A lot is happening in the transport sector – with hydrogen, bio and electricity. We have a historic railway operation. There are things happening on construction, with the intensification of building regulations, the development of passive houses, the use of district heating, energy efficiency improvement. We spend more money on renewable energy than ever. But then it will always be so that you can do more, move faster than we do today. One of the proposals that we are debating today is public transport and emissions-neutral fuels. Of course, we need to do a lot to stimulate the use of the most alternative fuels, for example. in buses. There are a lot of good projects around it in Norway. One of them happens here in Oslo, where you've gradually got a pretty big bus fleet going on biofuels. With respect to passenger cars, it is relatively easy to phase in alternative fuels, for example: on a bus fleet, because you do not need the same infrastructure. It keeps setting up a hydrogen or bio pump in connection with a bus garage. But it is also important to take into account that some of the most effective things we can do to get emissions from the transport sector down is that more people are driving buses and railways and fewer are driving cars. Then we have to be careful to impose requirements on public transport which do not comply with the requirements we impose on private cars, that we do not impose very high costs on public transport, which makes the provision of collective services worse and more expensive. There is a balance we have to find, for a collective offer that is weakened, with fewer departures and with higher prices, will not help us to move in the right direction. It will take us in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e764	The proposals open up a little bit for a climate debate, but I think we should go into the individual themes. Overall, the proposals represent, or reflect, an unprecedented dissatisfaction from the proposers with the government's follow-up to the climate agreement. For someone who wasn't on the climate deal, at least it's a neutral observation. If you listen to people like Jørgen Randers, for example, who run the Low Emissions Committee, that's a legitimate criticism. His review a few months ago of the government's climate policy shows that one little when the goals you have set are met. However, I hope that these proposals that have now been promoted show that there will be more focus on debate on what action is going to take and that less will have a debate on competing for major objectives. The Minister for the Environment is beginning to misjudge and try to blackmail Siv Jensen. What Siv Jensen said at the CC9 conference was that the debate on leadership was, if the need to be led was, we're done. Everyone agrees that we should be leading was, so we don't have to discuss it. What we're going to discuss is action. I have no faith that the Minister for the Environment is going to take that explanation and do not misinterpret the claim of the Progress Party in the future. We also see that in relation to the sulphur-prevalence debate that has been. Governments think it's an honor to be called sulphur preacher. It shows what kind of attitude he has in the climate debate, unfortunately. I am also a little voiced over a debate about who has the best policy objectives in 2020, all the time we have a Kyoto obligation that one in Norway will not be able to meet without large quota purchases abroad. It should be more interesting to discuss how we can actually fulfill the obligations we have, rather than all the way to ignore them and solve them with quota trading, and then take on even greater commitments in 2020, and not least in 2050. I think it is important that we ensure that, in the future climate debate, we discuss what measures can stimulate households and business to make environmentally-friendly priorities. We have to use the index finger to a small extent and believe that it helps. I am very pleased that the Council of State even focused on diet-benefit in the debate on incentives for the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. It also makes it necessary to evaluate the approach to CO2 clean-up in Kårstø and some other such projects, so that we actually spend the money on the climate measures that provide the most benefit. So far, there has not been a single cost-benefit assessment from the Government regarding Kårstø. But I'm glad that the government itself has seen the madness of the project and scolded it in its present form. I also hope that we can have more debate about what kind of market-based schemes work. Everyone at Stortinget agreed that green certificates were a scheme that we wanted, but we have ended up with a bureaucracy-driven subsidy scheme. I hope we can have a debate on how to use the tax system to stimulate people to make environmentally friendly investments in their house, instead of having to be eligible in Enova and fill out a lot of forms. As we have had debates before, and as one of the proposals here goes on, I think it is important to have zero-emission transport. There's one going on public transport. I believe one must see the whole of this, and therefore it would be wrong to adopt the Right proposal. But one should put it in a bigger context to bring the environmentally friendly part of private cars. But I am a little surprised – and really a little excited – because the way I see that SV rejects the proposals to the Right. They argue just as the Progress Party has done in all other matters, but we've just received criticism from SV when we ask if there's enough biofuels to meet the goals of the Government. In the past, the Progress Party has always been rejected by the fact that we are environmentalists who think that idea at all. Now it's being used against the Right suggestion to avoid dealing with it. One also argues from SV that such a proposal would have entailed high costs for the collective sector. But what kind of costs one imposes on industry, business, private households and private car drivers with its other proposals, it has never taken up SV ever. Then I think the argument from SV is really correct. But when SV uses it in this particular case here, it still testifies that they do not want external proposals to really be part of a government climate policy. I hope that SV now follows this line, when they once try to put out the proposal to ban the sale of petrol and diesel cars from 2015. In conclusion, I would like to show that electric cars are not necessarily emission-free. It depends on how the electricity is produced. One knows that by the way the government rains, an electric car in Norway will have a emissions of 60 g per year. km, while a new petrol car has 90 g. One does not get the dramatic reduction suggested by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e784	There are three good proposals that the government parties are now planning to vote. I'm sorry. Fortunately, it is an offensive EU which also contributes to a more offensive Norwegian climate policy. With the climate agreement, we're on the right track. We see, for example: that EU climate policy is now in the process of imposing quite significant emissions reductions on Norway in a short time, as we will also see in the transport sector. It makes me intend to use my time here to talk about the Right's own proposal relating to more environmentally friendly public transport. From 1995 to 2004, passenger car traffic has decreased by 10 pst. in emissions of CO2 per. I was driving km, and at the same time it is seen that the emissions from the total of car traffic are increasing. Again, it is easy to draw the conclusion that the introduction of new, more environmentally friendly and, not least, zero-emission solutions in private cars has been very short. The proposal now being put forward by the Right in Document No. 8:71 for 2008-2009, is just looking at the public responsibility associated with, for example, The bus fleet, which is today largely a public core task in most cities and counties. The proposal is to put an infrastructure in place as quickly as possible and not least at a time when all new buses, among other things, will take place. must be purchased as a vehicle which does not rely solely on fossil energy. This is not an expensive proposal – we are talking about an infrastructure that will in any case come into place. The difference today between a bus running on e.g. wet organic waste – the plan in Oslo is to get 250 pieces in a year or two – or for the sake of electricity or hydrogen, and a bus that is currently on diesel is not particularly large. The environmental quality of a city that Oslo will have dramatic improvements if we have seen this proposal win through. It is particularly special that the State Council's own party so that the degrees go on track in relation to making demands on private car transport, but does not see that the public has at least the same responsibility over its transport fleet. This I had expected a party that liked to call itself an environmental party – as SV – had actually supported, and that it had got the full approval of the Government. It's not dramatic to say that during 2011, all new collective solutions will go beyond 100 pst. fossil fuel sources. Nevertheless, as the follow-up to the climate agreement shows, we know that we are building up, for example. private car charging stations. I believe it should be a matter of course that you had the same opportunities in public transport as well. If we have an international perspective on this, this proposal is not among the most offensive at all. We see that in New York, Mayor Bloomberg said that during 2010-2011, all of the city's taxis, which – if I don't remember correctly – are about 13 000, are going to go on fuel sources other than fossils. In other words, it is political will that should be at the root of political-led framework conditions for the collective sector. As a result, the entire arguments of the SV relating to their offensive and also interesting proposals on private carism are put in a clear light as to their rejection of this proposal now. Finally, let me address all the proposals in all three cases where the Right is with the Proposals or makes proposals alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e802	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e805	There'll be some rehearsals along the way here, and there's a little bit of variation on the same theme. But it's good that there's an active opposition that wants us to get a turnaround towards a more environmentally friendly road traffic. Because that is what we are writing, all except the Progress Party: road traffic is a significant part of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and insofar as other national and international emissions that we have to deal with are also involved. So we have to put in place drastic measures. Now we have started a work by government teams to look at how we can follow up the objectives of the climate agreement to reduce our emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million tonnes, and that at least two thirds are to be taken nationally. Clearly, we will face some challenges in the future in relation to these objectives, because the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change points out that all countries have to do drastically much more than what is actually ahead of us in the Norwegian climate agreement, and which is elsewhere, sail if it is reasonably ambitious compared to much other internationally. We will also see changes in transport policy as a result of EU climate policy, and part of what is happening there is very good – not least in terms of bringing up new renewable energy. The best we can do is electrify most of the car park, and eventually we might see hybrid variants in public transport too, not least in heavy traffic. That's where things are already happening that are very exciting. The majority, consisting of the parties to the Government, nevertheless object to some of the proposals from the Right-wing Representatives. Among other things, we fear that the short time horizon to which it is added here is going to weaken the collective offer and reduce the proportion of collective travel. It'll seem negative, that's the opposite of what we want to achieve if we want to bring down the greenhouse gas emissions from the road sector. We say that if demands are made that are not achievable or that will impose significant increases in costs on public transport without having a plan to compensate for it, it will reduce supply, and that will weaken climate policy. Now we're going to work in the red-green parties to get a still strong increase in the appropriations for public transport. My hope is that the bourgeois parties, too, minus the Progress Party, will, I believe, have an offensive policy for that. But we can't know that, and it will be years to year-budgets that apply. We fear that a general requirement for new vehicles in public transport to be emission-free from 2011 will not work as intended. In the short term, this will mainly require large-scale use of biofuels. It is uncertain whether there will be sufficient quantities of available biofuels that meet the sustainability criteria – there is also something we are working on. It's not like we have a defensive attitude to it. We want to have an offensive attitude to just putting sustainability criteria in place. It is also necessary, we say, with an overall assessment of where the limited quantities of biofuels available are to be used as a priority. But – and that is an important but – we believe it is right and important that public authorities should lead in the development of the most climate-friendly transport by land and by sea, which is another very large source of greenhouse gas emissions. Then we have strengthened, and we want to strengthen, the appropriations for public transport. We want to facilitate, for example: biogas plants around the country. In my own county, Vestfold, they have plans for a biogas plant, where they want to phase out ordinary fossil diesel from, among others. buses and reach biomethane gas. The trade unions have also been very ongoing in order to obtain these kinds of solutions, that they buy environmentally friendly buses under the direction of the public authorities. It is also in line with the policy pursued by the Government. It is important to provide a proper infrastructure and also to facilitate the emergence of public transport. We discussed this instead, where the Council of State pointed out very correctly that we could have major problems with public transport, at least if we put up a policy in line with the proposals of the Christian People's Party, that so-called environmentally friendly cars, fossil cars with slightly lower emissions, can be allowed to use the collective field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e827	We are discussing a proposal from the Christian People's Party that a separate energy and climate action plan should be drawn up that has the climate agreement as a premise. The climate agreement is a framework, but there are few steps in policy instruments. Unfortunately, the instruments are not in line with the objective, but it was as far as we were able to get with the Government in 2008. That is why the Christian People's Party is promoting this proposal, which is today supported by the Left and Right. The parties to the Government will vote against this proposal, despite the fact that the Council of State writes to the Committee that the report that the Government will provide the Stortinget mid-term in the first Kyoto period will be a ‘full energy and climate action plan’. Climate change 2020 shall form the basis for the mid-term reporting in the Kyoto period, which shall also be a sound energy and climate action plan. There are many names for a piece of work. The letter from the Council of State cannot be read in any other way than that the Stortinget will be presented with an energy and climate action plan in a year's time, if the voters will, and if the Government keeps what it has promised. Unfortunately, in the last area, we know that the notified energy message is an example of the fact that all of the challenges facing the opposition for a long time were to be addressed in the notified energy message. Now the energy message was never submitted. Despite the fact that basic material from different disciplines had been ordered and was under production, this message was never written. As we remember, state councillor Terje Riis-Johansen said it was more important to have a clean platter than to have overall national leadership from the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party believes that the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time, and we therefore demand that the Storting both take the overall discussions and that we deal with the specific individual proposals that need to be made. The Christian People's Party does not agree that the climate agreement has been properly followed up in all the underlying institutions, despite the examples that the Council of State has rewritten in the letter to the Committee. If we look at the climate agreement § 6-4, which goes on at the national transport level, which we are going to deal with later this week, we say in the agreement that a carbon budget related to major projects is to be submitted that make visible the effects of the projects and the plan as a whole on national greenhouse gas emissions. When the national transport plan arrived, it was not possible to obtain the answer from the Council of State — also with reference to the work done downwards in the system. We're discussing a lot of things now, but I want to refer to a statement about smoking in Today's Business on June 6, where the headline is: «Taking two billion. on flop’. It is Kjell Inge Smoke's ambition to build on larger oil companies. This case is a good example that we need a climate wash, because, as it says: ‘But the economic success of smoking does not require Aker Exploration to find oil at all. It provides for the taxation of oil.» These include: Here – and certainly some other places – we need an air conditioner. Despite the fact that the SFT does not believe it, this is at least a daily example of a climate wash being in place. The proposal put forward by the Right on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from public transport is a proposal supported by the Christian People's Party. This is a proposal that is in line with proposals we have made in the past, including: that biogas buses should receive a better support scheme when it costs NOK 500000 to rebuild those engines. We already operate such buses in Fredrikstad. That's what we've had since 2001. Now Oslo comes after, and we heard that it's also on the stairs in Westfold. But it requires that we also facilitate financial arrangements, so that it is profitable for bus companies to convert into environmentally friendly fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e851	It is not without reason that the Committee is dealing with so many issues of climate and climate policy. IPCC reports not well read. The UN Climate Panel outlines rather gloomy prospects if we do not take the measures needed to reduce emissions. But in Norway, we have a very good starting point for meeting the requirements that we're faced with. We've put on a lot of unending fossil energy. We have both economic muscles and moral duty to build up honors and take on the work to make a difference in global climate change. At the same time, we have put a solid common platform here in this house through the climate agreement. It's a settlement that almost all of the political parties in the Great Britain have stood behind, and it also makes us well equipped to reach our targets. Even if we have a strong starting point, we're not going to take the problem lightly. The work ahead of us is formidable, and we must be closed. That's why we have to be particular about choirs and how we use our energy. The centre party believes that it is important to have good control of the achievement of the national climate targets, to see if we need to reconsider the impact. This task has already been given to the State Pollution Control Agency, and we believe that their report will be an important and good national energy and climate planning tool. That's why we think that developing another plan that actually shows the same thing as SFT's work is wasted energy. The same applies to the proposal to wash Norwegian legislation and administrative arrangements. The Climate Action 2020 Working Group has already been given the job of reviewing emissions reduction measures and instruments. The state's pollution control department thinks there's no reason to turn down a selection that's about to blow up the law. That's a position that we're supporting. In the debate on wreckage earlier today, we are talking about greenhouse gas emissions from passenger car traffic. In the transport sector, there is much more to be done than that. Emissions from the entire sector must be brought down, both from public and private transport. No running gear is saved from critical climate lights, either on land, in air or at sea. An increase in public transport at the cost of passenger car traffic is central to achieving the climate targets. A more climate-friendly public transport is producing even better results. In order to achieve this, public transport must be as competitive as possible. There's a lot of good examples of what's being done in this field. Oslo Municipality has seen NOK 10 million for hydrogen buses in 2009. Within one to three years, 100 buses will operate on biogas from sewage sludge and food waste. Several places have started to change fuel consumption in the ferry sector. When it comes to reducing emissions from public transport, the principle must be that we seek to use the energy we have, correctly – and that it is used in the right place. Should an optional non-emission-free vehicle be used in all public transport services e.g. 2011, most likely, will result in a need for large amounts of biofuels. This is not unproblematic. Biofuels may, depending on where they are produced, be involved in a shift in food production or in contributing to an increase in food prices. There's nothing we want in a world where nearly 1 billion people starve. If we're going to use biofuels, it's necessary that it's produced according to strict bearer power criteria. Such biofuels are not unlimited in quantities. That's why we have to think carefully about where we're going to use the biofuels that are available, where it has the greatest effect, and where there's the greatest resource efficiency in its use. Some types of precursor are more clumsy than others. Let there be no doubt. The central party also believes that public transport must be made more environmentally friendly. We just don't think that a general requirement is the way to go, as long as we don't know that we have the necessary amounts of certified biofuels, and as long as we can put on public transport costs that make him less competitive. These are problems that have to be solved with other instruments. The use of waste, and eventually perhaps to a greater extent sewage and fertilisers, can be alternatives. In the long term, hydrogen can become its future fuel, including for this type of precursor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e874	We have three proposals to address that can help achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in the climate agreement. It is proposals that will clarify and strengthen the use of instruments in the pursuit of the overall objectives we have set ourselves. I record that the majority, i.e. government lots, having doubts about their own arrangements and their own level of propulsion. The result is less pressure in climate action and a long time is spent on achieving the targets. We have received the same response when the Left has proposed that we have a climate settlement, and join forces with those who were contractual partners last year. The government has agreed to that, but not until 2010. When government parties shade away, reference is made to the climate statement made by the government council for the Storting. I would like to remind you that it was a long and thorough account, but without any new policy. The second reference is the review of the instrument use to be carried out by the SFT. The government has ordered that review from the SFT and they shall deliver their order in the autumn. This means that one has wasted valuable time in this area too. The review of the SFT should have been initiated immediately after the climate agreement had been concluded. So we have another area where there's a bad time and where you spend too much time. The left will vote for the proposals, because they will speed up climate change and make it more concrete. It is now important to get the country's underlying agencies to commit themselves to the achievement of the objectives we have set for climate action. It is important to reduce emissions in the transport sector. I think it is a good measure to get all new buses from 2011 to use more environmentally friendly fuels, and it can be a contribution to achieving the objectives we have to reduce emissions in the transport sector. By 2011, there should be no problem in putting in place the need for certified fuels so that they can be put into service. I think that the government parties are at all overly concerned with problems and counter-conceptions when these proposals are highlighted, instead of putting pressure on creating the space needed to take what is set out in these proposals, and have the available means in place. I also think it is important to speed up efforts to reduce emissions from ferry and scheduled boat services. The use of more environmentally friendly fuels here can contribute to this. In 2006, the then Environment Minister, Helen Bjørnøy, said that one was in the process of climate change washing the law to find out if there were rules that prevent good decisions. It is obviously not followed up and completed, and we hear from the previous speaker that now a start should be made on the review that Helen Bjørnøy told you was going on in 2006. The background for the Left now promoting this is precisely that the Government has not followed up the action where Helen Bjørnøy was offensive. We believe it is important to have a review of Norwegian legislation, and propose changes that would improve climate change performance. I think it is positive that this proposal is supported by the Right and Christian People's Party. But here too, the Government of the Working Party on Climate Change shows 2020. It is too defensive and helps to stop important work. I record from these proposals that the Left, Right and Christian People's Party appears to be more impatient and more offensive than the government parties. I am sorry that the Ministry of the Environment and the majority have taken so lightly on the proposal on climate change washing of the legislation. Originally, in his remarks, he was content to refer to the Minister for the Environment’s climate statement. This proposal was not mentioned in one word. When this was pointed out, there was a new letter from the Ministry of the Environment saying that the matter was, as far as I remember, mentioned in a reply. I think that's quite eye-catching and too thin to be called a straw straw. We therefore feel that the Minister for the Environment, when commenting on this proposal under consideration in the Committee, refers to a climate statement that he is to make. When this is not mentioned there, he shows that it happened by chance in a line change, which he could in no way know and predict when he sent his first letter to the committee. This is easy and arrogant, and it shows a lack of respect for both the rapporteur and the committee. Worse still, it shows that he takes lightly what could have been a good climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e896	The red-green government has represented a complete revolution in Norwegian environmental policy, a shift in pace – or the word you choose to use. After many years of standstill, we started running, and we run fast. This is recognised by the world, except for some opposition parties in Norway. Let me give you an example: a week ago, I was invited to the African Union Environment Ministerial Meeting. I was the only non-African who was invited there, except for the Danish host for the Copenhagen meeting. The reason was, of course, that Africans perceive Norway as a very specific offensive environmental policy that is interesting to hear about. Let me give another example: in Washington a month ago, Robert Zoellick, World Bank Chief – he cannot be characterised as a red-green or left-wing politician; he was one of Bush's boys in the Republican Party and has served all republican administrations in the modern history of the United States – a ‘Bali Brunch’. Three times during his speech, he referred to a country or a government. All three times it was to Norway, no one else was mentioned. When I say this, it's because of course this has taken the opposition a little bit on the back -- not the Progress Party, because the Progress Party stands for a fundamentally different environmental policy and will not really do anything, and is therefore in a frontal opposition to the Red-Green Government. But it's taken the Right, Left and Christian People's Party a little bit on the back, because these three parties want a lot of the same thing as us, but they just don't get it all the way to. When the government puts out in the jump hill, I'm not going to say that we're setting the world record, but we're going to land far down the ground, while the opposition parties are standing on the stand and asking why we haven't jumped one meter anymore – instead of being on the glide and getting something. The proposals presented here are very good examples of that. Three months before we're going to provide a very thorough review of the entire climate policy, so that the Storting gets a thorough material to evaluate this, we're going to do the exact same thing, with the hare lab, without having the material, without having the scientific coating, without having the input of all the floors. That doesn't make sense. The proposal for a master plan that comes here is the same as a climate cure, that's just another name for it. It is a proposal to do this superficially three months early, instead of doing it thoroughly when climate change cures, i.e. Master's plan, coming. I took up the proposal on climate-washing of the law with the Ministry of the Environment many months ago, and asked for an assessment of it. The clear assessment is the one presented to the Storting, namely that there are not a lot of bombs in the law, but there are issues of political will to address the political challenges we have. In other words, what climate cure is going to do: get on the table what we can do, what costs are at it, and how big the emission benefits are, so that we get a real debate about what's more sensible to do, where we can get the most done. So both master plan and climate wash is really asking for a climate cure three months before it comes. I suggest we have patience to wait for the thorough investigation, instead of taking the superficial one. I have much more sympathy for the Right's proposal on public transport measures. I just want to say that when the government parties have been skeptical about this proposal, it is not because we believe that the public and private should not be treated equally. On the contrary, we agree with the view of the Right that greater demands need to be made on public enterprises than on private ones. State, county and municipality have to go ahead, and we have to make greater demands than we can make to the general citizen. The State shall use its purchasing power and the State shall be a model. We are far from it in all areas today. However, what we are afraid of with the proposal is to find ourselves in a situation where public transport is subject to formal requirements that make it possible for them to be faced with a poor competitive situation in relation to car traffic, because the most important thing we do is to get more people into public transport. The better we succeed, the better we manage to reduce emissions. But I share the Right's wish that as much as possible of what is contained in the proposal, that is, the transition to new and more modern fuels, can happen. We should be very careful to try to encourage it in all possible ways, not by supporting this proposal, but by trying to do the same in practice. We share the ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e913	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 7, 8, and 9. [[See pages 3466 and 3467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e930	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, we propose to the President that there be given the opportunity to reply to three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e939	In Document No: 8:51 is a proposal to include small power plants in a green certification market. The establishment of a green certification market has been a lot of discussion in this room in recent years, and I mean frankly, and I believe that the proposers have – let's say – a good starting point and a friendly idea of getting a good result for Norway in the case of green certificates. But it must also be that the result to be achieved, together with Sweden, must be a balanced result for both nations. It will be of little help if we are forced by the Storing into a system or a system that shifts the balance point – balance is absolutely necessary in order to achieve negotiations between the two nations. In principle – in my opinion at least – all hydropower and all power generation should have been included in a certificate market. If we hadn't suggested it as a starting point, we could have moved investments from one technology, or between different sizes within one technology, where one moves the investments from something that's not desirable. Therefore, the starting point of what the Council of State writes in its letter to the Stortinge in connection with the handling of this case is that the technology scope of a green certification market has not yet been determined. It is not a very great advantage to be tied to the hands of a negotiating position, one must consider the different circumstances. The goal of getting a well-functioning certificate market where Norway will get its share of the investment, and Sweden’s share, is crucial. The aim is to have the central principles for the design of this certificate market, completed by 1 October, i.e. it is imminent. I am then a little surprised that both the proposers and now an overall opposition want to bind Norway up in the negotiations with Sweden. I think it's a little bit wise to do it that way. We are in a negotiating position, and it should be the best starting point for one to be included in the negotiations with the possibilities and conditions that exist. Now you could read the proposal so that you would think that you had excluded small force from the negotiations. But I must stress that this is not the case. The only thing to achieve is to commit to the proposal that the opposition is promoting in this matter in the negotiations we are now in, and as a total increase, it is very important that we succeed in. One might also be a little surprised that one of the parties in this room is on a note that is very clear that it is not right to fix the technology choice now, but that one should wait until the negotiations, while also agreeing on the proposal that small-scale power plants should be included. I think that if the Storting had gone for the proposal of the minority, we would initially have begun to distance ourselves from the possibilities of getting to a solution. I'm wondering if it could be a starting point. Because it is now that one in the case also says that it is the consumers who have to pay for the certification system. Yes, of course they do. It is also that our starting point, and the starting point of the Government, is that one should have a broad approach to the technology choices and the solution to be found there. So I hope – and I still choose to believe – that the wish is that we succeed in the negotiations with Sweden, get a certificate market in place. Then it is extremely unwise to tie your hands to our dealers in the back of your back, because it is a achievement if you decide what is the minority's proposal in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e950	The rapporteur's comments seem to me to be very misleading as to what the proposal is about, and one can at all wonder if the rapporteur understands what this is all about. It is obvious that the rapporteur has such a bad case that he wants to create more misunderstanding than to inform the matter. The fact that the proposal becomes a reality is simply that the opposition can read. The opposition has read the Soria Moria statement, and the opposition has seen that the Soria Moria statement states that a green certificate market should not contain small power plants. It shall contain mini- and micro-power plants. Small power is not mentioned. Then more from the opposition over three and a half years have tried to get the government to confirm whether or not small power plants can be included in a green certification scheme. The government has no response ability. The government, now at Riis-Johansen – two previous state councils as well – says that no, they will work for hydropower, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. And the Soria Moria statement is clear: there's not going to be any small force in a green certification system. It is the confusion on the part of the Government that the opposition has now promoted this proposal. That should have been brought to the attention of the President-in-Office. Or hasn't the case rapporteur read the Soria Moria statement himself? It almost works like that. Everyone agrees that we should bet on renewable energy. That's the system choice, the tools here that we want to discuss. It will be quite artificial to make this into a debate that we do not want green certificates – and succeed. Of course you want it. The question is, how does a person get it? That's what we have to start discussing instead of creating a distrust of what the others think. If this debate shows that the government includes small force equal to any other technology, I'm very pleased. But then the government must dare to say it, and then they must dare to say it with SV present, so that SV understands that the fight that they thought they won at Soria Moria, they did not win anyway. The most important thing here is to get a green certification market that's robust and that's going on. The Progress Party believes that there should be technology-neutral arrangements, precisely because it is the market that is going to produce the best projects, regardless of technology, and then we get the bad environmental aspects out of the concession treatment and make sure that the market invests its capital where it thinks it gets the most out of it. We have heard that argument from the Riis-Johansen Council when he explains why we have prioritised a step over wind power. He should also take that with him when he discusses small power. What we've heard from the Government for three years is that small power is so profitable that they don't need support schemes. In fact, there are many small power plants that are as marginally profitable as wind power. Therefore, one should include small power in the same way that one includes the other. So someone would say that the Soria Moria statement is formulated as it is, doesn't mean that small power is excluded. Let's look at the fact of the policy that has been pursued. Minority power is excluded from all the instruments of Enova. If they had been included with Enova, I could have agreed that there is an interpretative element here where the opposition would like to interpret it too strictly. When you look at the fact, small-scale power plants are excluded from the tools that you are now using. It helps to further justify our interpretation that one does not want to have small strength in the scheme of green certificates. Therefore, the Progress Party and the opposition ‘The government includes small power plants in the negotiations with Sweden for a common scheme of green certificates’. It does not state the assumptions that Terje Aasland makes about this, that it should be the only real prerequisite and then we get to negotiate about the others. This should be part of the negotiation package. I hope the Council of State can confirm that the Government is moving, so that even small power plants are included. The reason why one should do that is in two points. One point is that small-scale power plants are good projects in themselves. There are good projects from a regional policy perspective, from an energy policy perspective, from local employment and value creation and, in general, from the least-aided projects to be realised. It is thus the measures that will cost taxpayers and electricity customers at least to get in place compared to much of the other things that the Government is working very hard for and costs the shirt. Point 2: Minor power must be provided to obtain a robust green certification system. The Swedes have included all hydropower above 1,5 MW. The Norwegian Government shall only include them below 1 MW. It goes without saying that Norway excludes the majority of the good renewable projects from a green certificate scheme. If you are going to have a robust system in Norway, a very expensive renewable energy must be included to replace the small energy that a non-political one will bring with it. At that time, you get a cost in Norway that you don't get in Sweden, which means you get this biased burden-sharing, which the government has used to explain why you didn't get into a green certification system before. Our claim, therefore, is that you do not get small power in the negotiations, nor do you get a green certification system. That is why the proposal should be adopted! It's taken up by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e969	Then the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e972	It was quite clear to the case rapporteur that this proposal seems disruptive to a bright everyday life at the blight of the ageing period! I understand that very much, because when we turn the clock back almost four years, we have to allow ourselves to ask the question: how has progress, production and development been in this area? Until now, before the last three weeks, we had, as far as I remember, one case in the past where it was promised by the Government that – after choosing to refuse the certificate negotiations with Sweden – we would have to put in place support schemes in Norway that were to be considered at least as good as those that were outside the borders of the country. We all know that we didn't get this in place. There's nothing to suggest that we get it in place, either – at least not during this big time period. The second is that when we look at progress in small-scale power generation in Norway, the numbers unfortunately show that this is falling. It is right, as the representative of Solvik-Olsen pointed out, that it is half-hearted – to put it mildly – about the government’s attitude towards small-scale power generation. It is true, as Mr Solvik-Olsen also pointed out, that this is not aligned and subordinated to the conditions of support at Enova’s disposal, which have, as a matter of fact, been the answer to all the current government’s political challenges – any energy or environmental policy question is answered by Enova. In fact, if you want to, you have to choose. If you want to follow up the climate agreement, you have to choose. Then you have to select on the top shelf the projects that are closest, which are most feasible, that can provide the most energy for at least invested crowns etc. That is why there is every reason to support the proposal we have on the table today. As many people have been involved in the past, we have already lost time. We have lost several years in development. We have not put in place support schemes to stimulate not only small-scale energy but also other types of renewable energy. It is also important to stress that the approach of a negotiation with Sweden must have technology neutrality as an overall objective and a certification system should be based on market orientation. If you forget it and do not have it as a goal, you do not, first of all, achieve the results and objectives set by the Stortinge. Secondly, the consumer is given a totally unnecessary extra charge. I have also noticed the answer from the Council of State to the Committee where he writes: ‘It is natural that the hydropower has a place in the system, and I will work for it in line with the government’s policy for small power plants in Norway.’ Well, I think he'd rather work to get small power in as part of a coming certification system to a much greater extent than following the government's policies so far in this area. If that is what should be the guide, I doubt that we will achieve the desired result.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e990	The process of investigating and establishing a certificate market for renewable energy production in Norway has been ongoing for about ten years. In 2003, an important principle decision was taken here in Stortinget to start negotiations with Sweden on a common licence market. The red-green government's negotiating break with the Swedish authorities in February 2006 think I will prove to be a historic failure. This breach led to a great delay in the development of renewable energy here to land. The alternative support system put in place by the Government later in 2006 proved to be non-targeting, and for the builders, but above all for the Norwegian climate and energy policy, this has also been a misguided strategy. It is, to put it mildly, less fortunate with such a long period of unexplained instruments as we have had, and therefore it is important that the Government now ensures progress and finds a rapid clarification in the negotiations with Sweden on the green certificate market. We have been promised feedback on 1 October 2009. Since it must be clear a framework. Last week we were presented with figures from the TNS Gallup saying that there is a majority of the Norwegian population who are willing to pay 500 kroner – that is approximately. the same as the Swedes are paying today – to increase renewable energy through a market-driven system. It is also important to stress that for many years the small-scale industry has had expectations of being included in the licence market. So there are positive signals, except when we read the Soria Moria statement, which says that small-scale power stations should have a predictable policy in this area, and then they get into the certification market. That is why the Christian People's Party supports the proposal under consideration. However, we believe that, in a process of negotiation of this nature between the authorities of the two countries, it is not appropriate for constant discussions in the United Kingdom about the solutions and the impact of such a market to end, but for us to find a solution soon and to arrive at a negotiated outcome. On the basis of this article, I would also like to say in the minutes that, by mistake, the Christian People's Party is listed in a note in the Innst. S. No 282 for 2008-2009. We're not going to be in the majority opinion, because we want green certificates to contain small power and the government parties are then alone when the Christian People's Party goes out of that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1001	In the four years when the red-green government has its seat on power, the climate issue has come higher and higher on the agenda. The seriousness has increased as the IPCC reports have come. Occupying comes as known rarely alone. It's challenging enough to meet the climate challenges. In parallel, we have a serious food crisis, and we have a financial crisis going on. Climate crisis and financial crisis affect each other. One of our most important tasks in time is to focus on turning this context into a positive influence. In the Center Party, we are particularly concerned about creating a green business in Norway. Green jobs are future, and the development of new renewable energy is one of the keys to creating a future green working life. Norway should enter a green age. We believe that a green economic development will create thousands of new, green jobs in the years to come. Now it was a lot of green here, but we're also a green party, so it's a good one. Long-term and sustainable solutions are becoming more important than long-term solutions in business policy. The centre party has consistently argued that a green certificate scheme will be an important incentive to increase the production of renewable energy. This is why the Government took the initiative to resume talks with Sweden. Today's renewable electricity production support scheme is not good enough to trigger the full potential we have in this area. At the same time, developments in prices and costs both in Norway and Sweden, as well as a new and stronger focus on triggering renewable energy production, have made cooperation more relevant. The EU's renewable directive, where the EU makes a strong commitment to renewable energy, has also contributed to updating cooperation on an electricity certificate with the Swedish population. Green certificates will be able to provide stable and robust framework revenues to promote profitable investments in renewable energy. Research and development on new energy technologies will be stimulated. The impact of regional policy will also be significant. At the same time, it is gratifying that an investigation recently showed that there is also a majority in the population who are willing to pay something more for renewable energy, for clean energy. The proposal providers are far from alone to be concerned about small-scale power generation. For the Central Party, it is quite central that even small power is increasingly involved in energy production in the future. Stable and good enough framework conditions for small-scale power are important, and we do not reach our climate targets if it is not stimulated for more small-scale power generation. Therefore, the Centre Party has set itself the objective of increasing the production of small-scale power by at least 10 TWh by 2020. Increased case-handling capacity and stable and robust framework conditions are important elements for development. Talks with the Swedes are now taking place. The aim is that the key principles of market design should be in place by 1 October of this year. What technologies will be included in an electricity certificate market will be clarified as soon as possible. The center part has a clear desire to bring small forces into the system. However, a green certificate market with Sweden is not created through representative proposals here in Stortinget, but through serious negotiations and discussions between Norwegian and Swedish authorities on how to build such a certificate market, so that it benefits both parties. In fact, it is the leading provider of a certificate market and thus have a useful travel hub in place to achieve the offensive goal that both the centre and safe others have seen to achieve, an increase in renewable electricity production.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1018	It is increasingly apparent as a fatal error that the government chose a scheme of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden. The result has been a standstill, not an advance, in renewable energy production. It is positive that a scheme of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden came together as an important part of the climate agreement, and it is good that it is now working towards a solution. We have to put that solution in place in the harvest. I have a concern that is based on the priority that the Government made last time the question of green certificates in cooperation with Sweden was up. Then one picked it away. I think there are signals coming from Sweden that indicate that the government does not have a clear ambition and enough was drawn in this work. I hope I'm wrong, and that we'll get a solution soon. Left wants a powerful setup that can trigger good projects. We have to get out the best and the most profitable projects. The left considers it natural to include small-scale projects in the scheme. I record that someone seems to be skeptical about this because they fear a massive small power build that could threaten environmental values in important watercourses. This kind of development doesn't want the Left either. We want to sort between desired and unwanted projects by developing state-of-the-art small-scale plans and by dealing with the individual case. What the Government believes about trifle power and inclusion in green certificates seems to be somewhat unclear. I have the impression that the discord that is the real reason that a non-toner flag here is not that a person wants to keep the cards close to the chest because of the negotiations with Sweden. I note that the centre party at the Sande representative makes it quite clear that they share the views of the proposers. They want to include small power in a green certificate scheme. Then I think it is amazing that the Central Party cannot vote in favour of the proposal, which is a call to the Government to include this in the negotiating arrangement. If one succeeds towards Sweden, another thing is. You can never foreshadow it. But if a total expansion had stood behind this intention, it would be a clear strength. I don't understand why the government parties can't be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1027	There is a broad consensus in this room that you want to put in place a certificate market with Sweden. I work a lot and intensively to ensure that the Storting's wish and will in this case is carried out. We all agree that this is a demanding process, because it is more likely to integrate the energy markets of two countries through a system that will work well for both countries. I see very clearly, and think it is also quite neat, that the Swedes themselves consider their national system to have been a success. From the Swedish point of view, they are concerned that an extended certificate market will work as well as the system they have today. I think that the key to a solution around a Norwegian/Swedish certificate market is on the balance sheet, finding a scheme that helps to ensure that expected investments spread evenly across the different countries. That means that in the scope of the certificate market, it becomes a question where we see that mathematics becomes an essential part of the way to the goal. We need to find a balance in technology that makes the cost per. the production of a unit within the certificate market is expected to be the same in Norway as in Sweden. If we don't get it, we'll see that the investment is shifting between countries in a way that I think such a common certification market will not be worth it, and that will also make it more complicated to get it in place. That is why I believe that the framework of the negotiations we are now in is based more on that issue than on politicisation around the extent to which one is for some technologies. I believe that the conclusion that the majority of Storting has reached here today is the only right one to negotiate a good solution with Sweden. When it comes to the process, we've had meetings. We have spent time on facts, on the basis of and on a common understanding of the energy markets in the different countries. We have also had political meetings, where we have worked together in concrete terms on assessments related to this certificate market. I also imagine that we will get on with it now before the holiday, in the form of several meetings. What I have said about this matter earlier in Stortinget applies now. That means that there is a matter of great commitment on my part, and we are working to ensure that deadlines that are not very far ahead of time are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1042	If we put away all the mist and just look at small power plants in the Soria Moria statement, green certificates must contain mini- and micro-power plants and all this other stuff, while small-scale power plants are not included. We hear from the Central Party spokesman at Stortinget that he would like to have a small power plant too. Is a government council supposed to understand that small-scale power plants are going to be treated in line with all the others? Or should one understand it so that one relates to the Soria Moria declaration and does not discuss small force with Sweden, because the Soria Moria declaration has not opened up since SV won that battle on Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1047	I have nothing more to add than what I just said from the pulpit, that I am concerned about finding a balanced solution with Sweden that makes it in both Norwegian and Swedish interest to introduce a Norwegian-Swedish certificate market. What we'll see then is that wind and biopower will be the technologies that are closest to what is the cost level on the Swedish side today. Then hydropower will have to be the technology that a user uses to arrive at a unit cost that is at the same level in Sweden as in Norway. That's the process I'm running, and which I'm absolutely sure is the right process in finding a solution that both Sweden and Norway are interested in, which means we're going to get an agreement together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1052	The council says he's working hard to get to a Swedish-Norwegian green certification market, and that's good. A framework agreement has been promised on 1 October 2009 and there are not many months left. But if the voters want the red-green government, or something red, or something green, to continue, when will the Storting get this presented, and when will such a market work, so that we get the expansion of renewable energy, i.e. if the red-greens continue after the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1059	I fully agree with the representative of Holten Hemdal that the important thing here is when you get a certificate market launched. There are some of the issues in the discussion between Norway and Sweden now, and there is a discussion that also includes the implementation of the renewable directive in the EU, which is part of a whole here, which I should not say necessarily makes the negotiations extremely complicated for that reason, but which are factors that, after all, need to be reviewed and assessed. The exact date I cannot give now, but I am determined that it will come as soon as possible, and that the Stortinget will of course be informed as soon as possible when there is something new from the negotiations of a concrete nature to be briefed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1066	We're really just trying to get a clear yes or no answer, where the government says what their policy is. State councils talked about what was in Norway's interest. Let me try to put the question like this: Is it in Norway's interest to try to bring small power plants into a green certificate market with Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1071	What is in Norway’s interest is to find a solution that is so good that both Norway and Sweden see their merits in the conclusion of the agreement. It should be able to include hydropower. I'm pretty sure of that. The amount of hydropower we will have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1076	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1081	I might not have taken the floor now, on something that might be tamed by the debate, but the temptation became too great, since I got so much attention in the beginning. I want to start by saying that I've noticed one thing in life, and it's that when children understand that crying arouses a certain attention, crying is often used as a means of getting attention, and often so much gradually that the effect fails. So I also believe that the opposition is the case when it comes to this matter. Once again, they have covered their brave tears, and they have done so for four years now, because what they think is a fatal mistake: to reject the green certificate market, which was initially not yet negotiated with the Swedes last. I'm a little surprised at that. I'm a little surprised that they're so bastant in their opinion of what the green certificate market actually contained – whether it contained the balance point that I think this hall is really very busy achieving, and as the Council of State has illustrated in an excellent way. He has also stated why he is a little cautious about saying exactly what should be the final result of a certificate system between Sweden and Norway. There is no doubt that a large majority, with the exception of the Advance Party, have committed themselves by means of the climate agreement to trying to obtain a certification system with Sweden. That is an indisputable fact. So the question is: are we going to adopt a certificate market that – as one possible scenario – shifts natural investments from Norway to Sweden? Or should we, on the other hand, hope that the Swedes will participate in a system that moves investment from Sweden to Norway? Of course not. There must be a balance point, as the Council of State just said. There must therefore be a balanced solution where investment can be assumed to be in balance between Sweden and Norway. If I don't think the entire certification system will coincide. I think we need to achieve a balance – now it's probably better to analyze it than it is in my head – I'm convinced that the hydropower must be part of that certification system. I actually think that a large part of the hydropower that we see in front of us now must be included in the system. But that's also an important third assumption, I think, and that's that Norway has a high level of ambition in that particular area. Then I want to end by saying that even though I really want all the hydropower into the system, and although I've heard a lot of baby grey, I won't leave the principle that it's stupid to tie the dealers' hands on their backs. I know very well Soria Moria, but I have also read the answer from the Council of State, which I think underpins what is important in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1094	I did not really intend to take the word in this matter, precisely because we have gone so many rounds on this earlier. At the same time, I want to say that this is a very important matter, and I think it's kind of okay that we take another round on it, because then it keeps up a pressure, which also seems in Sweden, which notices that there is a great deal of commitment in the Norwegian Parliament to get a green certificate market in place. Because it should not be stuck under the chair that in SV we are sorry that this did not work in the first place. But we are all the more happy that we are now on round 2, and we have strong hopes and expectations that we will get to port. Then there is uncertainty related to SV's positions relative to small power plants. I have been clear in the media, and I can be clear also from the pulpit here by saying that we have nothing against the inclusion of small power plants. I can even say that we are because it is included if it turns out that it makes sense in relation to the negotiations, which we need to have confidence that the Council of State is the closest one to assess, when he sits in those negotiations. But what is important for us to ensure is what the representative Kvassheim, the chairman of the committee, also pointed out, namely that we need to see the development in the context, and that requires detailed plans. We've been the proponents of this, and the Left has also been the proponents of this, and it's important that we don't get a bit of a split-down of Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1101	See there, now we got a little breakthrough. For now, SV has changed its position in relation to the position they had at Soria Moria, and it's very good. Hallgeir H. Langeland, the then energy policy spokesman in SV, was out in the media in October 2005 and said that SV won on Soria Moria, green certificates should not contain small power plants, for now we had to save the big lobby. It was a clear victory. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said, "Yes, the case unfortunately lost the center party at Soria Moria." Now SV shows the willingness to say: OK, we can bring small power plants in negotiations if it helps the negotiations. Can't the government say, OK, then we take that suitcase too? Then we take with us the suitcase that says wind power, we bring the suitcase where it says bioenergy, we bring the suitcase where it says mini and micro power plants, and then we bring the suitcase with small power plants, too, and then we see what we can do. What this whole discussion is all about is that one should not end up putting restrictions on itself from a Soria Moria negotiation that excluded a technology because it then fit one party. Let's go and hit the Swedes with the entire width of our technologies, with the full width of our resources, and then we'll see what we get there. So I'm going to join in and fight constructively in relation to what you get, and what restrictions you might get, in order to get the system in place. But let's not travel without taking one of the most important suitcases we have in Norwegian energy policy. We have to bring it. I now hope that the Council of State or the President-in-Office can come up and say that this admission from SV is enough for us now to say: OK, this case we are dying, we all agree that small-scale power plants will also be involved in the negotiations. Then we go on, and then we don't have to do any more rounds on this. I would also like to reiterate to the rapporteur that it is not just the opposition that laughs at the way energy policy has been managed in the last four years, including green certificates in particular. Whatever the power conference/energy conference I have been in the last three and a half years, everyone has said the same thing: a lack of a plan for what's going on, a lack of a whole, a lack of framework conditions, a lack of strategy that makes the industry know where one goes, and until the industry knows where one goes, the industry does not dare to trigger investment. This is precisely why one has not been given the growth in the development of small power plants that the government has given the impression of, and that the centre party said they had the goal. That's why one doesn't have a single windmill that one can say is red-green in three and a half years, because although it's granted concession, no one has dared to invest in their concessions, and that's why one gas power project after another is being scrapped. Then there is also a little bit of fog talking when it is said from the case rapporteur: yes, then, we're going to have with hydro power in the system. Yes, we know that, mini and micro power plants are hydropower, but this debate is going on where one defines the limit. It's been a mistake to define the limit by small force. SV now says that it is perfectly okay for them to take it with them. I hope to get a final post, in short, where it is clarified that it is ok for the Workers' Party and the Center's party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1110	It was the case rapporteur who made me ask for the floor, for I honestly believe that he could not have taken the trouble to read the proposal thoroughly enough. What is stated in the proposal is that ‘only the Government include small power plants in the negotiations with Sweden’. I don't think you've done the trouble of registering. I believe that everyone in the Grand Duchy understands what powers the Government has in this area, and that is why the proposal put forward should have been adopted today. It won't. As we also hear in the debate, there is a certain movement, but it is characterized by so much if, and so much fear of where the benefits can fall down, on what kind of side of the frontier, that this in itself makes you stand firm, and there is a lack of momentum. I think that with a little bit more commitment and more faith that you can succeed in Norway, you would have the power to get this done. I am convinced that the Norwegian energy market, the Norwegian renewable market and the potential are more liquid than the Swedish one. Therefore, this advance should not be marked by fear and as many if it says so and as is expressed in the debate. After four years, we don't need any more documentation. The figures show the urgency of the need to make progress in this area, for example. for those who have plans for investment, etc., all those who are in line with NVE, who wait for years for concession. And then you might also have to scale up a little to the many great, good forces of knowledge and capital that unfortunately have to make their investments, their renewable efforts, beyond the borders of the country. That's why it might be a little pointless when the rapporteur refers to screaming and crying, and you fall tears. I am not sure that is the best starting point for this debate. I believe that if there is to be a tear in this debate, it must be above the red-green paralysis of action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3467]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1141	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1152	We are discussing today the final addition of the Verne Plan for Watercourses. It is really a big thing, which I think the Committee would like to have a little better time to deal with, not least for the purposes of inspections and meetings in the areas covered by this plan. For although the conclusions were predictable in many ways, cf. The government statement, etc., has increased the debate and attention about the matter as we have worked with it. That's why I think it's been a wish from the entire committee that you should have a little better time for treatment. Although the Weefsnavastre is the big part of this case, the committee has gone its separate way in many ways in dealing with the mentioned watercourses. In some cases, watercourses are combined and obtained in line with the Government's recommendations. As far as others are concerned, we have seen that the Committee has, to some extent, changed its position in relation to the Government's proposals. But there are no major changes taking place. Norway is, of course, an energy storm power, and we are a major power in renewable energy. We should have great ambitions in this area. We are Europe's energy power, with the most likely potential, and we should have an ambition to remain a future great supplier of renewable energy to Europe. In this supplementary plan, the Government proposes the protection of watercourses of approx. 2.15 TWh. Overall, the Committee goes a little further, as Langvella is included in the SDR. It can then be established that, in the case of the Tovdal Watercourse, Langvella and the consent to the concession treatment of the protective and hydropower development project in the municipality of Aurland, there is a concerted committee behind this progress. Let me just stress that in the case of Aurland Municipality, and in particular the need for mountain side protection in order to avoid the risk of river waves in Sognefjord, the Committee takes this very seriously, and of course we ask that measures be taken to reduce this risk. That this can also help to get water drained from the side watercourse Gudmedöla into the treatment of the flood watercourse, is part of the matter to which the Storting has to come back. Of course, the benefits of society are great if we can reduce the risk of slipping away from being insignificant, while at the same time we can put in place a new power supplement of about 60 GWh per. years. This will be a matter for Stortinget to come back to. The Committee also separates layers in the case of the Baltic Sea Ocean, where the Government Parties and the Advance Party will not have the upper part of the Baltic Sea Ocean, i.e. above the Fitjadal Water, into the Protection Plan. It proposes the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. But I assume that the individual parties will explain their positions. I want to spend some time also stressing that we have been good at getting watercourses into the protective plan. 391 watercourses were before the day's treatment inside the protective plan, and approx. 45 TWh energy is permanently protected already. We have a significant potential in Norway, the theoretical 600 TWh, downgraded to the technical/economic potential for hydropower in Norway at a total of 205 TWh, of which 120 have already been developed. At the same time, this means that we have a significant potential for hydropower development in Norway. In the case of the Weefsnavastre, which is the large part of the case, I put on the Right-Hate in the rest of my post. Although the conclusions of the government parties were not surprising, one chooses to outrun an entire community. One chooses to overcome the needs we have in Norway to put in place new renewable energy. One ignores the fact that the whole community wants an impact assessment of the Weefsnava stretch, which there is a strong need to get in place. One chooses to ignore the fact that by expanding the Weftsnavastre, greenhouse gas emissions could be avoided up to 1.5 million. tonnes of CO2 emissions per tonne; years. And it's kind of an excellent approach to the matter: when you choose to move the web-navel strand into the protection plan, you decide at the same time that achieving the goals you have set in the climate agreement, reaching the goals we're going to achieve through the EU's renewable directive, almost impossible. The governance of energy policy and the development of renewable energy so far in this period show that we are almost firm, we are not getting out of the start block in this area. That's why it's very unfortunate that you have chosen to go to the step not even to follow the Weefsnavassträg. I understand the relevant local governments and rapporteurs in these municipalities who use strong words against the Government on this issue. Just a little quote from the local government of Grane, saying, ‘Possibilities of Helgeland fit into what is written in Soria Moria on energy and the environment. What does the government have to lose in knowing this properly? We believe our planet is worth more than political games." Yes, I think the red-green parties should have taken the trouble of listening to what you think locally about this question. I think we are in a time when there is a need for greater political will and new emphasis on the arguments for and against hydropower, in the light of its climatic advantage. Today, in the case of Helgeland, which is indeed a great sacrifice for the interests of the community, we can discuss the need for the Community to protect watercourses, protect land through forest protection, landscape protection, national parks, etc. I am recording that the government parties are proposing a one-off compensation of 150 million. kr to the municipalities concerned. That's about what goes missing in clean incomes for a year. In addition, there is a loss of value creation over several decades that could have given rise to investment in new industries – in new industries that are the best in the climate and the environment around the world. So you choose, in symbol policy, to ignore this relationship. There is no doubt that with regard to the possibility of replacing Wefsna in the form of energy, whether you choose to build 200-300 wind turbines or whatever it may be, I think we need to look forward many years in time to be able to compensate for this. But you don't even choose to follow this watercourse. Finally, in this context, you can wonder what ambitions government parties have for Northern and Northern countries. You take the Wefsna into the Verne Plan for Watercourses. There is no point of view on oil and gas, and there is a cautious approach to all the issues that should be able to give activity in this part of the country. Many hunting and fishing cards have to be sold in order to balance up for the permanent protection of the tissue. I refer to the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1194	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1197	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a well-worked job, even though at the end of his post he put on the Right hat – it was really supposed to be missing. I share the rapporteur's view that there could have been an advantage with some more time to deal with the matter, so that you had not at least got a greater insight into what the matter is actually about. However, I hope, and in fact believe, that we have put in place a proper treatment, not least in the light of the work done by the Committee and the rapporteur on the matter. As it was said, this is a concluding addition of the Verne Plan for Watercourses. 391 watercourses are now protected – there might be 392 with Langvella, if one counts with it as well. This corresponds to an expansion potential of about 45 TWh, as mentioned, or, to take the second angle, 1/3 of today’s production capacity in Norway. It is now also established – and I am pleased – that one must be careful to reduce the potential for renewable energy through further protection. One important prerequisite I think is to maintain the balance point. This view shares the government fraction, and I think we can analyze the current situation by saying that we have been lucky enough based on good access to clean and environmentally friendly hydropower, and that we also have potential in the future. Hydropower is a fundamental factor in our prosperity. There is every reason to reflect on the protection that is now being provided through this case. On the one hand, nature and aesthetics are central to Norwegian identity. Outdoors and great nature is a trademark our generation has a responsibility to transfer to the next generation. Protective resistors speak for possible profit by making additional large hydropower deployments. The protectors are talking about nature already built up. Those who have already done a great deal of hydropower development in their municipality say that they are putting the burden on the needs of the large community – just as the case-law rapporteur thought they were putting the burden on the Web and the area around it. Yes, the load is, either a choice of power build or a choice of protection, for the local population might be quite identical. It's also important to take that into account. I think, as I said, we're at a point of balance. Taking into account today's production capacity in Norway and the need for current we see in the future, I believe that the trend is towards a production capacity greater than consumption. That's what a lot of people say. Not least in the last period, 2005–08, we have produced 35 TWh more than what we have used in Norway. So that means that what we've seen together is in the Watercourse Protection Plan, almost at the level that we've exported out of the country. It tells us a little bit about the dimensions we're talking about. It might not be necessary to expand one effect versus the other. When it comes to the mention of the father-in-law of the proposal, I share the assessments of the case rapporteur, and join them altogether. With regard to the four watercourses that have now been assessed in the plan, it is, as the rapporteur also said, the Wefsna that is most controversial. But it is actually such that all the watercourses are extensively discussed, with the exception of the Tovdal watercourse, which I now feel is a bit silently incorporated into the protective plan. But there's a significant exposure related to Langvella, there's a significant exposure related to Øystese, and there's a significant exposure related to Wefsna. In the case of Wefsna in concrete terms, we agree with the assessment that wefsna has a high level of protection. The majority of the Committee is also very positive in view of the Government’s proposal to establish annuity fund of 150 million. kr. I think the future will show us that it is a very exciting test project for a comprehensive watercourse management that is being launched in the Wefsna. The starting point is that the protection values in the area are unevenly distributed and therefore there is a need for differentiated management. There the majority say very clearly that you can consider starting small-scale power deployment where you have zeroed the 1 MW limit. The assumption is that one shall not destroy the protective values in the area. I think that approach to the Wefsna in retrospect can prove to be very distinct. It's an important test piece. I hope and believe that they can succeed. The river Tovdal represents a large stream of water from fjord to mountain, like the Baltic Sea. This type of watercourse is missing in the protection plan and the protection of the lower part of the Tovdal watercourse will now lead to a total increase in the quality of the protection plan. So until the last two watercourses, Langvella and Øystese – first to Langvella, which in the proposition has not been proposed for protection. It has been and is a strong local commitment to protection against Langvella. Now it is not the local exposure that alone will decide whether or not to include it in the protection plan. But Langvella is a watercourse that is untouched, and it constitutes a marked landscape peak in the area. It is an important area of open-air life and wild rain. I have to admit that, in doubt, we have found that Langvella fits into the prerequisites for inclusion in the protective plan. Then there are just these qualities that we emphasize: the pristine character of the area, the outdoor interests, the landscape element and the fact that there is a large majority and the will to protect and actually protect Langvella locally and here in the Storting. Then it might be a little unwise that some of the principles avoid incorporating it into the protective plan. So to Øystese, which is slightly different from the professional assessments related to the protection plan. In my opinion, it is undoubtedly a watercourse of high qualities, qualities that initially qualify for inclusion in the protective plan. The problem is that you want to expand the lower part of the watercourse, while protecting the upper part. I think that's a total big deal, maybe with the exception of the Progress Party, is busy. But they'll get an answer to that, if you want. That's the starting point for the Baltic Sea. I think any concession treatment will show that interference in the upper part will destroy the watercourse's qualities. We have seen and heard that the BKK has plans for the upper part of the watercourse. I think, without foreshadowing any concessional treatment, that there will be a threat to the watercourse quality in Øystese. The question is therefore: how can you balance the consideration that is, among other things, What municipality is involved in balancing? They say they want to protect the upper part, while at the same time they want to help facilitate nutritional development and small-scale development in the lower part. Instead of voting in favour of the proposal referred to by the rapporteur on the protection of the upper part, we have argued that the following should be emphasised in the further work on concessional treatment and in relation to Øystese: Point 1: The views of local authorities shall be taken into account during the concession treatment. Point 2: In the event of power expansion, it must be gentle to ensure the quality of the watercourse. Based on that, I think we have balanced our main wish for the municipality of Kvam, i.e. the local authorities, and also for the county municipality in the area. Now it's time to show it correctly, but I think the watercourse's qualities will be impaired if one goes into power development in the upper part. There is no doubt that BKK's plans to divert a lot of water will reduce the quality, but it is fully possible to maintain the quality of gentle power development, then of small power plants in the lower part. In this way, I believe that the majority vote from the committee is balanced and good. It meets with doubt the premises that have been made for the protection plan, but I think here we have a case that local authorities can also agree to. I hope that today's decision is a final addition, and that one can create stability in terms of the protection that lies there, and the possibilities for power building on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1243	I would first like to make it clear that the Progress Party in this matter, as indicated in the setting, will vote against both the protection of the Weftsna and against protecting the lower part of the Tovdal watercourse, the Øystese and Langvellavasstracht. The most positive Progress Party can see with St.prp. No 53, it is hoped that it will mark the final end of the Norwegian watercourse protection plan and that from now on it will be very careful at least to implement additional watercourse protection. The size is per cent. Today, very many watercourses in Norway have been protected. A total of 391 watercourses with a power potential of about 45 TWh are protected against power expansion. Further stepping up the protection of watercourses will slow down the rational development of more renewable and environmentally friendly hydropower generation in this country, making it very difficult to achieve the objectives of increasing renewable energy production. The very extensive protection of watercourses has been achieved through four protection plans over a 20-year period from 1973 to 1993, as well as through a supplementary protection plan in 2005, and now finally here today a final supplement to the watercourse protection plan in 2009. With the final protection plan, a power potential of more than 47 TWh is protected against power expansion through the Norwegian watercourse protection system. The party concerned is concerned that, over the years, several protective interventions, both watercourse and coniferous, have been controversial and have been carried out by state coercion, and most often without the relevant municipalities or landowners being specifically consulted by government authorities. Unfortunately, we also see in the proposal we are dealing with today, where the protection of the Wefsna in Northern Ireland is the really heavy and major issue in this proposition. We have all noticed the great local resistance in the affected municipalities of Grane, Hemnes, Wefsn and Hattfjelldal, where we are strongly opposed to the protection of the Wefsna. Yes, it is also the case that the directorate of the Government – NVE – is against the protection of the Wefsna now. The matter of the protection of the Wefsna represents a serious lack of decent process by the state towards the municipalities concerned, with total absence of willingness to listen to the views and wishes of local democracy. And that's good reason to ask: Why in the world hasn't the government wanted to do a thorough impact assessment of the protection of the tissue before going to the dramatic step of protecting the watercourse? This matter is particularly embarrassing – I think – for the Centre Party, which in every speech celebrates the respect for local democracy and is very much talking about facilitating increased local value creation based on the use of local natural resources. But what does the Central Party do when the party's beautiful district policy clichés are to be turned into active action? Well, in this case, the Central Party and the Government are making the opposite of the festivities' bursting self-crustness, namely, to completely overrun local democracy in the municipalities of Grane, Hattfjelldal, Wefsn and Hemnes. In the protection of the Web, the Government undermines many positive opportunities for increased local value creation in these municipalities and stops the realization of an environmentally friendly power generation of between 1.5 and 1.8 TWh, for which the country will need a great deal in the future. It is by no means strange that more and more people have moved from the countryside to the cities under this red-green government. The government has said it will reverse the movement flow, but nevertheless it does not do so with its foolish district policy. As long as this government with State coercion protects more and more of the natural resource base on which District Norway is to live, and as a result marginalises the nutrient base for new jobs out in district municipalities, relocation will only increase. The residence and employment out in District Norway can no longer be secured only by milk subsidies and housing obligations, as the Centre Party and the Government seem to believe. Today, it is primarily the Progress Party that speaks the interests of the landowners and district municipalities in contentious protective matters. The party to the progress will have a significantly lower level of protection than the government in place will. The progress party is therefore firmly opposed to the protection of the Wefsna, and we are opposed to watercourse protection without thorough impact assessments being available before any protective decision is taken. The Progress Party will demonstrate that an environmentally friendly and gentle deployment of Wefsna could have produced a total of 1,5 TWh per. years, similar to three Alta power plants, and there had not been any unacceptable size of natural interventions. The progress party sees it as a force-political loss of dimensions to protect the tissue now. And how will this government actually achieve its objectives of more renewable energy, excluding the best alternatives it has to offer in terms of new environmentally friendly hydropower today? And with regard to the protection of the Wefsna, the state council recently performed to say that there has been an orderly process in the matter. It's with respect to not reporting at all correctly. I cannot see that a clean process involves completely overruning and ignoring the wishes of the municipalities concerned, Grane, Wefsn, Hattfjelldal and Hemnes, for an impact assessment. Because there is actually a missing process we are talking about in this case, when an impact assessment is not available before a decision on protection is to be taken here in Stortinget. The party of progress is strongly critical of the undemocratic way in which the Government has moved forward to protect the Wefsna. The procedure reminds of the lack of power of local self-government, and it is poor district policy. In recent years, therefore, this government has implemented a protection policy that makes it difficult to maintain viable business activities in Utkant-Norway, undermining local value creation and thereby weakening the local economy and the settlement of district municipalities. It's a misunderstood protection policy that contributes to depopulation and empty houses in District Norway. It is therefore most remarkable that an impact assessment is not available in the Vefsna case. So here the government will protect without the matter being thoroughly illuminated. The Tovdal Watercourse in the South shall also be protected throughout its length. At the same time, the entire impact area of the Tovdal watercourse is being protected, which means that several interesting mini- and small-scale projects in the lateral watercourses are likely to be iced up. Even the small side watercourse of the Tovdal River, Dikeelva in Birkene Municipality, was able to protect the central party councils in the last few years, even though it was stated in the proposition that it would not be protected. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State explains that exemption from protection was a typographical error, for of course Dikeelva should be protected – this to enormous disappointment and despair for the landowners, who had plans for small power plants in this watercourse. Minister of Oil and Energy, Terje Riis-Johansen, of the Central Party, has become a state council dedicated to the unnecessary protection of Norwegian natural resources, and this should now be noted by farmers, landowners and small power builders. It is now really just the Progress Party that appears to be the defence spokesman of the landowners, district municipalities and district Norway and the last chance of a further expansion of watercourse protection, coniferous protection and other unnecessary linking of Norway's land and natural resources. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals on which the Progress Party is or is on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1283	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1286	After this canonade from the Advance Party, it is basically quite liberating to have the opportunity to take the word and be thunderingly disagreeing. First of all, two thirds of our watercourses are regulated. Seven out of ten of our tallest foxes are put in pipes. Nine of the twelve largest Norwegian watercourses have been expanded. Two are peaceable, for Tanaelva and Trysileva. The weavers of the Northland remained. Part of this watercourse originates from Børgefjell National Park 1,800 meters above sea level. The second part has its origin in Sweden, where it is protected. The NVE and the Directorate for Nature Management have defined the watercourse to have absolute maximum protection values for biodiversity, outdoor life, cultural environment, agriculture, landscapes, geology and Sami interests. Wefsna is a national salmon river, and Wefsnfjorden is a national salmon fjord. We're talking about 15 miles of salmon-bearing watercourses. Our government has granted considerable money to get rid of Gyrodactylus salaris, so-called gyro, in this watercourse, with SV as one of the perpetrators. Treatment started in 2007 and the main watercourse will be treated soon. Historically, Wefsna has been the country's best salmon river. Tissues are today the best sea urchin in the country. In June each year, the World Cup will be held in sea trout fishing here. Elva has significant potential for much greater fishing tourism than the Namsen River, and is likely to generate income for the community in the hundreds of millions class. The protection of the river and the fight against the gyro are two important prerequisites for industrial development in the region. And then we're gonna make 150 million. funds for food on the table to speed up the development of economic activity linked to the protection of this watercourse. So the local authorities can use that. The municipality of Grane, together with Hattfjelldal, rejected an offer from the municipality of Nordland and former Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen to help avoid proposals for a nutrition fund. They said no when the former Minister of Industry wanted to discuss the size of the fund with the Government. I tried to get in touch with the rapporteur in Grane in order to find out how we can design a nutrition fund for the best of the region. It was totally out of date. I just mention it. ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’, launched by several as a compromise, is not. The development will have significant environmental consequences. By taking water from Wefsna and transferring it to Røsvatn, it will, among other things, become slurry and change in temperature conditions. Wefsn municipality, which is also in that region, has decided not to transfer any water from Wefsna. It therefore excludes the proposal of ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ and shows that there is no unison local consensus on this extension option. So now we're going to be protected by the Web. I think we're going to be grateful for coming generations. We in SV are proud of that decision. Tovdalselva is the only major river in the South-East where the main river flows from mountain to fjord without significant power interference. With today's decision, the protection will be complete here. The Langvella in the South Trøndelag is a side watercourse. Some have considered that Langvella does not therefore satisfy the desire that the protective plan cover complete watercourses. We are, however, very pleased with the fact that the almost untouched watercourse is now being protected for the benefit of both wild rain and outdoor interests, not least the local commitment to protection should have a significant part of the credit. Funny, then, that sail a unanimous local government, the municipality of the watercourse Oppdal, is not enough to get the Progress Party to go in for protection. No, State coercion protection is to be withheld, but state coercion is clearly a good thing. Both the Directorate of Nature Management and the NVE recommend the protection of the Baltic Sea watercourse in Hordaland. The watercourse is not protected at this stage, but the majority emphasises that any expansion should ‘be carefully implemented — with a view to ensuring the quality of the watercourse’. This means, in practice, no to large hydroelectric installations, among others. the plans submitted by the BKK. There, I fully share the assessments that Terje Aasland made in his post. I would also like to mention that we have a great potential on the energy saving side in Norway – 15 terawatt hours only in barley. It's just folding up the sleeves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1305	The watercourses in Norwegian nature have many qualities and values. They provide us with amazing natural experiences, biological production and diversity of species, and they provide us with opportunities for the production of renewable energy without greenhouse gas emissions. Energy policy must therefore find the balance in which we make good use of these qualities. For over a hundred years, we have been building watercourses after watercourses to provide opportunities for industrial development, housing and prosperity throughout our long-term country. This suggests that we have now reached a point where it is natural to be very careful to add new watercourses into pipes. The consideration of future generations also suggests that the epoch of the major new hydroelectric power plants is over. Watercourse protection plan is an important tool to ensure future generations of access to the rich watercourse nature. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal on the protection of the Wefsna, which is a follow-up to the proceedings of the Bondevik II Government. The government has also spent a very long time drawing a conclusion in this case, but we are pleased that the conclusion was correct. We also agree to the protection of the River Tovdal, which is in line with the proposal in the proposal. Both the Süd-Trøndelag county and the Oppdal municipality have shown an commitment to include Langvella in the protection plan, despite the fact that the department has a negative recommendation. The Christian People's Party supports protecting Langvella, and is pleased that the government parties have turned around in this matter. In the case of the Baltic Sea watercourse, we have noticed that the Government's proposal in the proposal is contrary to the NVE's recommendation. Following the NVE’s assessment, the Baltic Sea watercourse has qualities that clearly qualify the watercourse as part of the Watercourse Protection Plan. NVE points in particular to the watercourse’s qualities in landscape, nature-type variability – from mountain to fjord – and outdoor life. NVE also indicates that the Baltic Sea watercourse is a fjord watercourse in an area that is poorly represented in the protective plan. The adjacent protected watercourse Fosselvi covers only upper parts of this type of watercourse. The landowners along the river below the river Fitjadal have plans to take advantage of the fall in the lower part of the watercourse of a river power plant. The Christian People's Party is united with the Right and the Left to include the Baltic watercourse above the Fitjadal water in the protective plan. This is in line with the hearing opinions of both Hordaland County and Kvam heread. The representative of Aasland had a line of argument as to why the Government does not choose to go in to protect the lower part of the Baltic Sea. The representative says at point 1 that the local exposure is to be emphasised, and as point 2, that if it is to be strengthened, it should be prudent. And then time will show, was the representative's conclusion. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to draw conclusions on the very basis for which the representative of Aasland argues. So we focus on the room, we say that the expansion has to be gentle, and we want this part of the watercourse to be protected. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's assessment, that future assessments of non-protected watercourses should be carried out within the concession system and that the overall protection plan is considered to be completed. However, it is important to stress that this does not generally imply a yes to applications for concession in non-protected watercourses. This must be assessed on a regular basis in the concession process, how the benefits and disadvantages of each project must be balanced against each other. I take this up with me the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1331	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1334	The centre party is an active participant in the production of more pure renewable hydropower. At the same time, we see the faith to preserve a selection of the watercourse values we have, with a view to preserving some watercourses untouched. All watercourses and protection plans must still be managed by the Norwegian Watercourse Nature Administration. The protective plan, with the last supplement, protects a selection of watercourses with large natural values. After this final addition, the protected watercourses in size can provide an expansion potential of about 45 TWh per. years. When we now protect watercourses, it doesn't always mean that a watercourse protects against all expansion. In those cases where it was possible to build power plants without a direct conflict with the protection values, the Center Party believes it is right to allow the development of e.g. smaller hydropower plants. A safeguard decision shall be capable of being administered and followed up in a manner which takes account of the protection values, while at the same time safeguarding user interests, where this was agreed. The climate challenges we face mean that we need to assess the production of more pure force. On this background, you can look at the ability to get more smaller power builds – also in watercourses that are in the Collective Watercourse Plan. After a holistic assessment, the government has found that the value of securing the protection of tissue and Tovdal is monthly greater than the benefits of power availability in the development. We know that the Government in the Proposition advocates the protection of the tissue, with the exception of the three side watercourses Elsvasselva, Fiskelusselva and Gluggvasselva, which have a certain potential for small force of 25 GWh, which can be exploited. The Government recommends the creation of a holistic planning project dedicated to the protection of the Web. Such a planning project shall have local and regional anchorages and ensure good, knowledge-based and flexible management of the watercourse. The plan project is proposed to open up for less power deployment and more gentle cross-sectional power development. The web is the last large watercourse in Norway that is not already protected or developed. The government follows up the deal in the Soria Moria Declaration, by incorporating the Weefsnavsträg in the Waterplane. The centre party is pleased that the promise to grant the four existing municipal nutrition funds will also be followed up. The fund's at a record 150 million. kr. A central commitment is to provide compensation for the current local authorities when they are protected. This is important in order to enable municipalities to develop further, start new business and create new jobs. In particular, this is important when municipalities contribute to the community by obliging areas or resources of nature conservation. This protection plan is also an important measure to reduce the fluke in Flåm in Aurland, where a large mountain party in the so-called Stampa is at risk of moving down towards Aurlandsfjord and Flåm, which will lead to enormous destruction. There is still no known effect of a transfer of water from the Gudmed River on the river. It would be necessary to deepen the consequences of this before giving permission to such a transfer, but the right way to go would be a concession management, with emphasis on consistency. It is therefore right to open the concession management of the Stampa project. The transfer from Gudmedøla should, according to the view of the Centre Party, also be considered in connection with the minimum water flow in Aurlandselva. The center part has also agreed to take eleven Langvella into the plan. It has been a great commitment to the community, the municipality and the county for the protection of Langvella. We in the Center Party have good faith that, even if we do not take the Øystese watercourse into the protection plan now, the natural quality of the watercourse can still be achieved in a good way, through schemes such as this. municipal land management and concession management. In Øystese, there is a great local commitment to maintaining the quality of the top part of the watercourse, while at the same time a desire to open the bottom part of the power development. On the part of the Centre Party, we assume that the views of the local government are heavily weighted by any concessional management attached to the Baltic Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1356	This is a happy day for everyone who has been busy protecting the web. It is a great day for Norwegian environmental policy. The tissue navigability is linked to high environmental quality. The extension of the watercourse has been controversial for a long time. It is important to draw a conclusion now and set a finish line. It is especially gratifying that it is a safeguard decision that is that final line. Left-wingers locally and nationally have been on for many years to protect the Web. Today, I am thinking in particular of Per Flatberg – environmental protection man and left-wing man – who has been a perpetrator for many years in order to protect the tissue, and who has been an inspiration for me and many others in the Left in terms of protective work. In connection with the protective plan, which provided for the protection of 50 watercourses during the previous period, the Bondevik II administration agreed with the Stortinget that a case should be submitted which also opened for the protection of the Weasel. It's this order that today's government is following up. It's taken time – I mean too long – but today it's just not important. I note that the Government in the proposal opens up the extension of projects beyond 1 MW in Wefsna. It is important that this is not a scheme for rematches and projects that undermine the value of protection. I welcome the fact that the Council of State gives clear assurances that this is the way it should be. I also think it's very positive that the majority is adding up to protect Langvella, despite the fact that the government wasn't set on it. This is an example of the importance of the work of the Committee, the public debate on this matter. It is also positive that the majority will protect the River Tovdal, to which great protective values have been attached. However, what I regret, and which I find incomprehensible, is that the majority cannot follow up the protection of the Pacific Ocean, as it is a strong wish locally. People who are concerned about environmental issues have been engaged to get it done. I don't understand that the government parties couldn't be part of it. In particular, it is incomprehensible that SV can be involved in the conclusion drawn at that point. The government is suggesting that the protection plan we are now considering should be the closing protection plan. The left does not agree with that. There are still watercourses that should have been able to get protective plan decisions. I do not overlook the fact that it may be natural to promote a case of protecting several of these watercourses in a single context in a protective plan. There is no point in saying that setting up to protect another four–five watercourses with limited potential for expansion is undermining Norwegian climate policy or the efforts to achieve renewable energy production. On the contrary, there is no contradiction between pursuing a policy of protection in the field of valuable watercourses and making an offensive effort on renewable energy production, on upgrading hydroelectric power stations, on small-scale power generation and not least on energy efficiency improvement. Due to the step ahead, the Left Government supports the concessional opening of the Stampa project, which includes the Gudmedøla. We're going against further concessional treatment beyond that. We believe, like the representative Erling Sande, that one also assesses the requirement for minimum water flow in connection with this concession treatment. For this watercourse there is talk of a salmon and sea trout population of great value.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1375	The Government’s proposal for the final supplement to the Protection Plan for Watercourses is based on the deliberation of the previous supplement to the Protection Plan in 2005. With the government's proposal now, there is protected watercourses with an annual power potential of about 45 TWh. The protection plan includes a representative sample of Norwegian watercourse nature, both geographically and by nature. With the protection of the tissue, the protection of the last truly large watercourse in Norway that is not already protected or significantly affected by power generation is completed. Protection of Wefsna means that a great variety of watercourse nature, from fjord to mountain, is included in the protective plan. A comprehensive plan project related to protection is envisaged. The planning shall take place in close dialogue with the municipalities concerned. It facilitates smaller, gentle cross-sectional power expansions where this does not conflict with the protection values. The government proposes to set aside a total of 150 million. DKK for the four municipalities concerned. It's important. The overall framework of the food funds is large, and it provides municipalities with a very good starting point to bet offensively on industrial development and new jobs. Local authorities have a high degree of autonomy in the management of the food funds. In the matter of the protection of tissues, we have to assume the previous assumptions of the Storting. In addition to the protection plan in 2005, the bulk of the population joined the projection text, which stated that ‘it would not, in any case, be appropriate for the government to open up a large-scale power build-up in the Wefsna’. Furthermore, in 2007, the Stortinget decided that Wefsna should be included as a national salmon watercourse. National salmon waters may not be authorised for operations which may have a significant adverse effect on salmonids. I cannot endorse the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party to only protect the downstream Trofors. Based on the idea of a comprehensive watercourse protection system, the entire watercourse should be protected. In addition, it is not possible to implement the protection of the lower parts to facilitate the transfer of the upper parts without the protection being affected by the transfer. The protection of the lower parts of the Tovdal watercourse completes the process from previous protective plans where the upper parts were protected. Thus, a significant southern watercourse, with high natural quality and technical intervention, is covered by the protection plan. I have not proposed protection of the Øystese, and I record that there is also no majority to adopt such protection here today. Specific natural values have not been identified in this watercourse which are not covered in the Watercourse Protection Plan. The quality of nature in Øystese, I believe, can best be assessed through the concession treatment of current development projects. I find it difficult to see that the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to protect the upper parts has something special to do with a protective consideration. The upper parts do not stand out in any special way in this watercourse. The professional description of the island just highlights the context ‘from fjord to mountain’ as a value in itself. Then it makes limited sense to protect a part of this very context and this whole thing that this minority is in favour of. The protective values represented by the Øystese are also protected by watercourses elsewhere in the West. I am well aware of the views of local authorities on the protection of the watercourses we have now proposed. I am also concerned about local democracy and local self-government. Local value creation and the views of local authorities will be of critical importance in the possible subsequent concession treatment of projects in the Baltic Sea. In the case of Langvella, we can all agree on the natural qualities that lie in this watercourse, even though there is only a small section of a watercourse. Now that the Committee is in favour of incorporating Langvella into the protection plan, there is a way of getting protection in place without having to use its own legislation later on. Some extension of this lateral watercourse would in any case be of little relevance. Climate challenges will confront us for years to come with demands for more renewable energy deployment. As the name of the proposition says, we have now completed the final addition of the protective plan. Consequently, we must be very careful to further reduce this potential through watercourse protection without the existence of specific qualities lacking in the protection plan. Then we have a great damage potential for mountain cliffs from the Stampa area down towards Aurlandsfjorden. Here, in my view, it is right to open up to the concessional treatment of the combined anti-slip and hydropower project. I'm glad the committee feels the same way. For the protection of watercourses, the decisions taken today are the cornerstone of a process that has been in progress for more than 35 years. We can be proud of the overall protective plan that has now been completed. The tasks in the future will be to manage the watercourses in a way that ensures their protection, while facilitating local activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1408	It was interesting to hear the statements of the Council of State, repeating that protection should be implemented in close dialogue with the municipalities concerned, and that the Council of State is concerned with the views of local democracy in this matter. It fits well with what I was about in my post, that the distance between parties and really, political action is great. It is true that there is now a protection that is very much opposed in the four most affected municipalities. When they have asked for an impact assessment – and if the Council of State is to live up to its beautiful words of respect for local democracy – why has it been so difficult worldwide to give these municipalities time to carry out an impact assessment, which could perhaps provide a better basis for protecting the Web? Why has this been so difficult for the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1415	This is about a balance. There is a balance between securing protection values in Norway — including watercourse development — and the need for new energy in these cases. There is no either-or-answer to it, although it may seem that the Progress Party is relatively far from taking on the fact that there are two sides to these questions. As regards the content of the Tissuesna case and the need, where appropriate, for impact assessments, it is not such that this decision has been taken out of the big deal. There have been processes around it, and yes, the resistance locally is significant. There's no reason to hide. Nor is there any reason to hide the fact that on this issue the need for national decisions to address national needs for protection set up against local needs is concretely linked to economic development. It is not about lack of process in this case; it is about some different needs to be balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1422	This whole thing is about a lack of process. It's about the lack of listening to advice from their own professional body, NVE, on impact assessment. It is about a lack of dialogue with the municipalities concerned. All four municipalities concerned have taken a decision that is crystal clear, not asking for five ears in the almisses of the great community. You haven't asked for five cents in transfer. What you are asking for is that you are allowed to do business in this part of the country. While the Government can tow its hands and buy allowances abroad, it is asked to be allowed to avoid further relocation. It is asked to avoid forest protection, landscape protection, which radically affects the Helgeland region. More national parks are requested in this region. Don't red-green Grane have local government right when you call the whole process a political game?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1431	The last thing I disagree with. In fact, I think it is almost premature for the representative to use the entrance to such a large case as Stortinget has now had a process on, and that a decision is being made today. This is not about political games; it is about a decision in relation to the protection of watercourses in Norway. I also think that the representative Kristiansen strongly mixes the cards when he starts his line of talking about impact assessment – and then goes to the realities of the matter. I fully recognise that this is a complicated matter in relation to local interests, in relation to economic development, in relation to the wishes locally to use these areas in a way that is different from what the big community now wants. But it's not a matter of impact assessment; it's a matter of the facts in the case. And I and others have to be honest about that, that we are making a decision here that is not local outreach in these areas. It is a challenge, at the same time as one has said in relation to protection processes, that in some cases one takes responsibility for the national approach to the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1438	I'd like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the Pacific Ocean. The majority of the government's comments state that local positions should be taken into account in the further work and that the development of which is taking place should be a prudent development. In practice, it would say that one is going to land on a conclusion similar to that of the Left and Christian People's Party in favour of the position. It is difficult to see that in practice it is possible to do so much else. But here we are talking about theory and practice – and today we are adopting an important issue of protection. Does the Council of State agree that it may seem that, on the basis of these observations, the practical will mean such an interpretation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1445	I think we're going to let the concession processes go their way in relation to the Øystese watercourse. But it's quite right, as the representative Holten Hemdal says, that the Storting today places great emphasis on the very reasons that are being taken up here. I shall not interpret or elaborate this in the debate here today. I think the comments are clear and clear in relation to the considerations raised by the representative, and of course they will form the basis for the processes that are in relation to specific concession applications in this watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1450	I want to start by congratulating the Council of State. In history, it will be said that he received the honor to present the matter which led to the protection of the tissue. In the case of tissues, it opens for expansion beyond 1 MW. There has been a similar case relating to the birch watercourse which was protected during the previous period, where one set an upper limit of 3 MW. Such an opening beyond 1 MW was strongly criticised by the Workers' Party and SV the previous time it was done. I now register that today's government is promoting this without an upper limit. There are strong forces that want to open up for expansion in sheltered watercourses. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that the adaptation which one makes in the Wefsna, firstly, should not lead to conflictful expansion in that watercourse, and secondly, it is not an opening for the development of protected watercourses, and that the protection conditions attached to the individual watercourses are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1457	I can confirm that what lies here in relation to minor expansions, is not in any way supposed to torpedo, undermine or threaten the protection of the tissue, which is a clear and clear decision that is being taken today. At the same time, I believe that the decision that is also taken on the possibilities of some activity is important – because part of getting good protection processes is also to ensure that one protects enough so that the protection actually has the value it should have, while at the same time opening up an acceptable activity to the extent that it is sound. The specific projects will then be assessed accordingly. It shall not threaten what is the intention behind the protection, but shall at the same time consider the possibilities of economic activity associated with those parts of the watercourse where the protection values are not threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1463	One notes that the Council of State tried to combine different considerations in a way that is not entirely credible. A rate of renewable energy while protecting the watercourses that are actually best suited for expansion, without major interference or heavy costs. Governments stressed that we should not further reduce the renewable potential. I fully agree with that. We know that there are almost 400 watercourses that are already protected, a number of more watercourses would be uninteresting to look at for economic reasons. When the Council of State then gives the impression that one will continue to invest in renewable energy and believes that even medium-sized hydropower can be interesting, I would ask the Council of State if he could mention one example of a watercourse that is left that it might be politically interesting to look at the development of – without ever having a new conflict of protection – and where the interventions would be less than they would have been in the Web.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1470	With regard to the major watercourses, it is the protection that is being provided today, the last decision in this regard. The other major watercourses are either protected or have been developed in them. What we're now seeing is smaller projects. I don't think I'm going to rank them in terms of what is desirable, possibly realistic. We see that there are many applications for a concession for the development of smaller watercourses. I would like to welcome those applications, and we have increased the procedural capacity to have the processes implemented quickly. So I would like to welcome that type of project, and I would like to welcome renewable energy. We need it in the future. That is why, today, I am just concerned with the balanced message that we are going to protect enough to safeguard the protection values to be secured in Norway – but we are going to protect no more than that, because we need renewable energy in relation to the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1475	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1478	Protection of Wefsna and parts of it has been debated in Stortinget for several rounds. The last time it was up to debate was during the work of supplementing the protection plan through St.prp. No 75 for 2003–2004 and Innst. S. No 116 for 2004–2005. Here, the entire water catchment area of Wefsna was re-assessed, as the side branch Svenningdalselva had been included in the protective plan at an earlier time. The joy was great in four municipalities along the river when Stortinget, during the treatment of the protection plan on 18 February 2005, was expected to await the protection process in order to assess whether it was possible to implement a hydropower development that would not affect the interests of nature protection. State power had started a project – «Possibilities Helgeland» – already in 1998–1999, which could give up to 1.8 TWh focusing on environmentally friendly power, on environmentally friendly premises and with local and regional support and which could give great value to both the local environment and society. We know what happened in retrospect, and that ended with the red-green Soria Moria statement, where three parties agreed that the Weefsnavas line should be protected, and that municipalities should be allocated nutrition funds. This decision fell many heavily for the chest, also me, but such things happen when three different parties should agree. It's called giving and taking, and society has got a good deal of give and ta for four years, so I'm voting with the majority, because the result is good! There is a lot of excitement in the content of St.prp. No 53 as regards the future of the municipalities along the line of the Weftsnava. Everyone here knows that large resources are being deployed to make this national salmon watercourse free from gyro. Preliminary investigations are under way and are aimed at Rotenone treatment in 2010 and 2011. Tissues have great potential for salmon production, and much is done to protect salmon strains in the region. When we know that the loss due to this parasite is between 50 and 60 million. kr annually, it is urgent to have the job done. It is also good that, in the event of hydropower expansion and concession treatment, it is possible to release from previous assumptions of 1 MW as the maximum expansion in protected watercourses, but, of course, the protection values should continue to be preserved. One more thing that I think is exciting is this trial project on overall management around the Weefsnavassläck which is going to start immediately, where local and regional forces are going to be the driving force. The municipalities have also received annuity fund of 150 million. Total NOK Never before has such a large sum been paid out to industrial funds. That's good, and it should just be lacking – there's not much money set up against what they might get in fixed incomes by a power build. What remains to be seen is what this fund should and can be used for. It has been said that this fund can manage the municipalities in a different way than a normal fund, and I should like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about it. When it comes into force and what framework is put in place for its use? Is there free ropes and can be used as a guarantee e.g. to advance sports facilities that you know will be given tippers? It is important for municipalities to put this in place. So finally, we know that the world needs energy, and that the climate challenges are the greatest challenge of our time globally. Perhaps in the future one will look at hydropower expansion, and larger hydropower expansions, with other eyes. Any expansion in the future will have to be environmentally friendly, and «Possibilities of Helgeland» could show us. The protective press is large in Helgeland, and several of those living there are now concerned about their livelihood.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1493	The installation we just heard illustrates that this matter is very much about political games. It also illustrates the scale of action in the Government, for the conflicting interests are often so great that one ends up having to make a few small decisions, while the major strategies are lacking. What's good about the Wefsna case is that it's a final protective plan. This means that we can probably have a slightly different constructive approach to other parts of Norwegian watercourse nature, both in terms of what to take care of, and in terms of how a prudent person can use the energy resources that are there. The Progress Party believes that it is possible to combine this – good craftsmanship to protect the environment while making good use of energy resources and other natural values. What we have witnessed now is becoming a political game, for this was a decision that was made in the negotiations with Soria Moria, not a decision that was made after impact assessments and thorough professional work. This is a victory for one political party, in spite of and across what is the real wish in the Storting – we got an example of that in the last article – also because we see that almost everyone who speaks from, for example. The working party at local level is to be able to use the resources of the Wefsna and against the protection. Now the minority is controlled by the majority because of the government constellation. The whole process shows a little bit of protection by the input method. The fabric is a matter where you had an idea four years ago, and for which some parties have worked a lot more. When you look at some of the other watercourses that were also included in the protective plan, it is quite obvious to see. When, for example, reads the committee position and the comments of the government parties on Langvella, the government parties themselves point out that the Directorate for Nature Management and the NVE states that the watercourse is a small lateral watercourse that does not meet the objective of protecting whole watercourses. They further state that a smaller section of the watercourse should be secured by means other than watercourse protection, e.g. through plans under the Law on Planning and Building, or through protection under the Law on Nature Conservation. However, the conclusion in the last section is that the majority refers to strong local involvement in the protection of Langvella and asks that Langvella be included in the Watercourse Protection Plan. All professional arguments put forward by the government parties themselves are contrary to the protection. But the conclusion is that yes, but we protect it anyway. Where, then, is the logical context when the same government parties indicate that there are indeed professional reasons to protect the Eyesense, but do they oppose it? It simply shows that there is no link between the arguments of the government parties and the conclusions they make. Now I am so glad that Øystese is not protected, but there is no professional reason from the Government to protect Langvella either. It shows that the input method is the one that controls. In his speech, Terje Aasland spoke of the need to listen to the local population and find out what is the least burdensome for the community. That's why we protect the Wefsna, because it's obviously perceived as the least burdensome from the central powers of the Workers' Party. But the local authority in the Workers' Party wants to expand, and finds it less burdensome than the protection they are now wearing. I also feel that the representative Pedersen confirms in his post. It shows how the central power overrules local democracy, based on a bit of a false principle, and based on an idea that there is now almost no untouched nature again in Norway, and therefore we have to take care of the Wefsna. But for those who travel around Norway, there is a lot of untouched nature. It's a lot of nature that it's great to get around as an open-air person. There are a lot of areas that are already protected. We're talking about almost 400, and there's also an incredible number of rivers that will never be developed because it's not economically interesting. Therefore, a completely different approach to Wefsna should have taken care to see how it is possible to use energy resources in a prudent way – especially when one sees how government parties argue in view of the climate. Even in this setting, it is said that the climate challenges are ‘the greatest challenge’ we have. And so the conclusion after such reasoning is that we should therefore protect more watercourses from expansion. Tissues, with a potential power output of 1,5 TWh in the «Facilities of Helgeland» project, would correspond to a emissions of approximately 2 million tonnes of CO2, the emissions that we're releasing from that one can produce hydro power instead of coal power. 2 million tonnes – so the government says no! When one chooses to prioritize in this way, it is not credible when one says that the climate challenge is one of the greatest challenges facing humans. One finds no better power project than ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ given that there will be no new interference in protected areas and that one does not need to subsidize with one ear. Actually, it's very profitable. Instead, they're talking about sea windmills. But I know that Wefsna would have given $8 million. kr in net present value. Marine windmills with equivalent energy production would have cost SEK 1.5 billion in subsidies per year. It says something about what madness this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1515	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1518	I've actually asked for the word to try to nuance the image a little bit in the areas of Northern Ireland, power development and renewable energy. Wefsna is located in Northern Ireland, and there may be reason to stress that it is a state that has had the most extensive power development in the country over time. Following the expansion of Salt Mountain Black, there is also one of the largest hydropower groups in the country, and it is a force exporting. Although the industry in Helgeland is included, there is a surplus of power in Northern Ireland, and you are a contributor. Most of it's expanded. Therefore, it is a joyous day that at least one of the great watercourses is now being protected. I shall say nothing more than that it was very well described by both Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Gunnar Kvassheim here earlier. It's not the end of hydroelectric expansion in Northernland because if you're protecting the Wefsna. There is a comprehensive expansion of small-scale power in the state. In the period 2005–08, 65 extensions were applied for. 52 of them have been granted - i.e. 80 pst. of the applications in Northern Ireland. Well 20 of them are in the Helgelands region, the Rana and the Wefsn region, so there's an ongoing expansion of renewable energy. I guess I saw 65 applications, and the same number is going on in the future. This is so extensive that the county council is now making a sub-plan for small-scale power development, which will be dealt with during the year, and which will contribute to increased hydropower generation in Northern Ireland. In addition, there are comprehensive plans for the development of wind power in the county. During the month of October, we will deal with a sub-plan for wind power, where there are projects in the billions class waiting to be launched. So the plans for the development of renewable energy in the Nordic countries are comprehensive and will be implemented in the coming years. That one of the major watercourses will now be protected is therefore absolutely in place. Finally, I would like to underline what has been said about the total watercourse management that is now being added up to around Wefsna. It's very important that you get started with this. The fact that the department, together with the county councils and municipalities, starts that process as soon as possible opens up a differentiated management of the entire watercourse area, for which I have great expectations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1533	I have to say that I asked for the floor under the intervention of the representative Thorkildsen, because when local democracy in this kind of question is used against us, it is nothing but a gigantic paradox – and a provocation. It is therefore not the case that the Progress Party today is promoting proposals for the development of Langvella, Øystese or Weefsna. On the other hand, we say no to protection. I am aware that there is a significant disagreement locally regarding Langvella, and that the matter has never been dealt with as such, but as part of a very large district plan. Nor do I believe that Langvella is very relevant for development, regardless of what the local government at Oppdal or Stortinget had to decide on it. And then I remember that the Progress Party during the treatment of the Planning and Building Act a year ago proposed to strengthen the rights of local democracy, not only on the issue of networking, but also on the development of power in its own municipality. And then the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen polishes against the fact that the municipalities have not been interested in negotiating the 150 million. kr that they have now received. Then I remember that the Indians in Manhattan sold Manhattan to white colonists for buttons and glossy images. When you're offered 150 million. NOK for something that has a present value of NOK 4.5 billion, I understand that you locally become a bit angry about it and are not very willing to negotiate. That's what the Indians in Manhattan did 250-300 years ago, but that's another thing. But then to the quality of nature in Wefsna: it's high. I would therefore like to say on my own behalf that the first project that was submitted about Wefsna was probably to take a bit of a hard time. But ‘Possibilities of Helgeland’ takes care of salmon in a completely different way than the first extension does. This does not mean that the temperature increase in Wefsna is a necessary consequence of the expansion of the upper part of the watercourse. Technical grips can be easily avoided. And then that's the salmon argument -- now we've taken out the momentum that it's going to be temperature increase; it won't necessarily be. I am pleased that the representative Pedersen emphatically stated that No Marte Thorkildsen was wrong when she said that gyro treatment had been started in the webbing. You don't! If the salmon is an important argument for the protection of the tissue, you might have waited with the protection decision until you had seen if the gyro treatment could be started, and if it was successful. I am pleased with the clarification from the representative Pedersen that you have not started gyro treatment, and you have no prerequisite to know if you can handle gyro as large a watercourse as the Weaver's Way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1548	When I take the floor, it is to comment on some of the points of view expressed in Mr Andersen's speech earlier in the debate. Although this was an attack on the Center Party's district policy in harsh order, it was almost a shame that not the broad made by the district people got it with them. When what was described as what a living is in the Norwegian districts, and what is going on around the districts, a fundamental solution to the knowledge of the conditions there was revealed. I think the fewer people would be able to recognize themselves in the description given by the representative Andersen. It's probably a point that both the Center Party and the Progress Party may be above the average positive for the expansion of more hydropower. At least the center part is above average positive to local government, without that leading to 100 pst. of the cases in this room follow up the local proposals. There's other, whole-worldly meaning that sometimes we can't do it. What needs to be commented on is how the Progress Party has pushed ahead of itself the consideration of local democracy as an argument in this matter, and it is very unlikely. There are actually none of the parties in this room that fully follow the local recommendations in this case – and, if we ignore the Wefsna part of the case, perhaps the least advanced party. Then I thought once again that I should use my own policies, own arguments and real arguments to get through to its policy, and not use local democracy as an alibi. One should at least be consistent. And then a little visit to the committee leader, Kvassheim, who says that there are no contradictions between the protection of nature and more renewable energy production. I don't agree with that. That conflict is open. It's going to be more visible in the years to come, and as politicians, it's going to be our challenge to find the right balance points in these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1559	I would like to commend the Energy and Environment Committee for the work they have done with the Protection Plan for Watercourses, especially with regard to the decision to include Langvella in the protection plan. So here we are in the unique situation that the environmental movement, local authorities and local people have gone hand in hand to protect a watercourse. A unanimous local government in Oppdal already asked in 2005 that Langvella be included in the protection plan. We have a county council decision that was also unanimous – a county council that has since actively worked for protection in cooperation with the Swedish Union for the Protection of Nature. There have been differences of opinion as to whether the quality of the watercourse was so good that the watercourse should be included in the protective plan. But here I would like to point out that the directive on the Directorate of Nature Management correctly believed that protection should occur primarily in other ways, the directorate also believed that it had high standards of protection. They also believed that it was subsidiaryly natural to include it in the Verne Watercourse Plan. It has been very clear from Fylkesmanen in the south of Trondelag that more than half of the natural area associated with Langvella is untouched. And if there's something that's important both now and in the future, it's protecting pristine nature, because it's getting smaller and smaller again. In addition, parts of the Langvell Valley are part of one of the European wild reindeer areas, Knutshø. The natural qualities that lie in the Langvellavas stretch – the degree of pristine nature that it represents, and not least its importance for the living conditions of wild rain – mean that we, representing the Workers' Party in the South-Trunde Team, believe that the conditions for long-term protection are clearly documented. So this is not protection by the input method. It is not that this matter suddenly appeared in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, and then the Committee found it a good idea – we protect Langvella. No, this case has a thorough and good basis for decision, and it is a matter that has been well reworked in advance. Among other things, DN has had a thorough review of it, the county has had a review of the protection values and the quality of the Langvellavass stretch, the county council of the South Trøndelag has dealt with the matter, and the municipality of Oppdal has dealt with it. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee has listened to the strong local commitment, to take care of the local people in Oppdal and the state politicians believe is unique nature value. As an old member of the Energy and Environment Committee, I know that it is not everyday food that the local people come and pray on their knees to protect a watercourse.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1578	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3468]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1586	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1638	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Tord Lien on behalf of the Advance Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government, at the latest in the State budget for 2010, to propose to increase the wreckage of older cars to NOK 22000, older cars which, according to the Ministry’s opinion, are the most appropriate ones to be defined within the age of 15 to 20 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1663	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and Left says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose, in the context of the 2010 State Budget, a temporary increase in the wreckage of the oldest and most polluting cars.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The President assumes that the Progress Party wishes to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1690	During the debate, Gunnar Gundersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the Government to adapt the law on motor travel in the outland so that municipalities are given increased authority — within national guidelines — and where the experience of the pilot project with increased local autonomy is taken into account.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1715	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that oil transhipment with the requirements of the Petroleum Act and the Pollution Act can be carried out in national salmon fjords.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1740	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward two proposals on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1773	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks during the spring 2009 session to propose measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from public transport. One measure should be that from 2011 all new public sector buses should be able to use emission-free or emission-neutral fuels. Requirements should also be made to be able to use emission-free or emission-neutral fuels for new ferries, cruise boats and diesel-powered trains. It should also be considered to introduce similar requirements into new taxi concessions.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1798	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review Norwegian legislation as soon as possible and to propose changes that could better address climate considerations and contribute to achieving the Storting’s greenhouse gas reduction target. The result of such a review must be provided as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the submission of the National Budget for 2010.’» Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1824	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to include small power plants in the negotiations with Sweden for a common scheme of green certificates.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1850	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right Proposals No. 2-6, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 7, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right Amendment No. 8, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The following watercourses are included in the Water Protection Plan: ObjectGroupVassstrek052/3HordalandØystese above Fitjadalsvatnet020/3East-Agder/West-AgderTovdalsvassdräget below Heresfossfjorden121/2South-TrundellagLangvella151/2NordlandWefsna, without Gluggvasselva, Fisklauselva and Elsvasselva»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1926	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The following watercourses are included in the Water Protection Plan: ObjectGroupVassdrag052/3HordalandØystese above Fitjadalsvatnet 020/3Aust-Agder/West-AgderTovdalsvatsdräget below Heresfossfjorden121/2South-TrandellagLangvella’» The President assumes that the Christian People's Party and the Left now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e1982	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2–6, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Weaving is not included in the protection plan for watercourses. The question of the protection of tissue is only settled after an impact assessment of the effects of both protection and a prudent development outlined by «Facilities of Helgeland» has been submitted. A referendum on protection is held in the four municipalities concerned: Vefsn, Grane, Hattfjelldal and Hemnes after the impact assessment has been carried out.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Langvella is not included in the Watercourse Protection Plan.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Tovdal watercourse in East Agder below Heresfossfjorden is not included in the Watercourse Protection Plan.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘A differentiated management of the Tovdal watercourse is opened so that small power stations with power up to 3 MW can be subject to concession treatment in those parts of the watercourse which are already physically affected by existing technical intervention and where existing technical intervention is clearly required to reduce the protection values.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Dikeelva is not included in the protective plan as part of the protection of the Tovdal watercourse below Herefossfjord.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e2022	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision consents to the concession treatment of the combined step, flood and hydropower development project in the municipality of Aurland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e2089	President! I should have voted in favour! I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e2094	The correct votes will then be 72 votes in favour and 37 votes against. - That's how the suspension is adopted. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-09.ana.ud1242e2126	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
