ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e43	The representative Rolf Rikvam has applied for leave on 19 and 20 May to take part in a study tour with the Nordic Council of St. Petersburg and Komi in Russia. The President suggests that the application be dealt with immediately and that it be accepted. - It's a note. From the first deputy of Akershus County, Siri Hall Arnøy, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under Rolf Rikvam's leave today, May 19th and 20th, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. Other alternates from Akershus County, Erlend Helle, are called to attend the term of leave. Erlend Helle is elected to the Creation for the time he meets the representative of Rolf Rekvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e71	Erlend Helle is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e85	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3085]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e101	All members of the Committee agree that the control committees play an important role in ensuring that Community resources are used properly and properly, and that the objective must be to ensure that the selection bodies are effective and active supervisory bodies. In particular, some adverse events that have been documented have shown the importance of the control and supervision function of the municipal control committees. The Committee would also stress that corruption, unethical trafficking and irresponsible use of public funds are totally unacceptable. The Committee also considers that many municipalities take these challenges seriously. Over the years, there have been many examples of challenges to the independence of control committees, both through demands for the replacement of members and through the marginalisation of the sample's own initiative. Active control committees can easily be seen as a problem and members of the control committees can be seen by the other elected representatives as the extended arm of the political parties in the control committees. There is a weakening of democratic control of administration if control committees spend more time on being popular with leading politicians or advisers than on performing the tasks of a truly independent control committee. It weakens the possibility of carrying out an examination of the circumstances in which municipal or county management is involved. I believe that by strengthening the independence of control committees and providing for the establishment of minority rights in the work of the samples, better and more effective control and better supervision of municipal and county administration will help. This is important in order to ensure the digestion and legitimacy of public decisions and services. A minority in the Committee would like to give municipal control committees greater independence and would point out that most people pay a large proportion of their income to the State in the form of taxes and taxes, and that it should be an objective that the minimum amount of tax money disappears due to inefficiency and corruption. Independence is a prerequisite for credible control and supervision activities and there must be a clear distinction between those controlling and those to be controlled. It is strange that, in many ways, independent control and audit requirements are more stringent in private enterprises than in public enterprises. For example, a private sector auditor may: have no employment relationship with the person to be audited, while on the other hand a municipal auditor may be employed in the municipality. There is also one reason why more and more municipalities choose to distinguish between units that order and perform the public service. Municipal control committees today must have a majority, and often also a political majority, in order to address important issues. It is also a challenge, both because the control committees are just about to control central politicians and bureaucrats, and because Norwegian municipalities are characterised by a consensus culture. The requirement for independence becomes extra difficult to comply with in small municipalities, where everyone knows everyone. There are a number of laws and regulations that grant minority rights in public bodies, including: in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the EEA Joint Committee. It should also be natural to grant similar rights to a minority in the local authority control committee. I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left and the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e118	The representative Ib Thomsen has then drawn up the proposals he mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e121	The requirement to set up control committees in the municipalities and county councils of the country entered the municipal law in 1992 because there was a desire to strengthen the control and supervision work in the municipalities and counties. Over the years, control committees have also been strengthened. For example, from 2004 onwards: at least one member of the control committee was elected from among the members of the local or county council, and from the same year the control committees were strengthened professionally when setting up their own professional secretariats to assist the selections in their audit services commission function. The aim of the legislative changes has been to strengthen the independence of the control committees, so that the control and supervision work is carried out in an unmanaged and effective way. However, over the years, many examples have been seen of challenges to the independence of control committees, both through demands for the replacement of members and through the marginalisation of sample initiatives. There is a weakening of democratic control, and there is a weakening of the possibility of carrying out a review of conditions in which municipal or county management is involved. On the right, today’s legislation has been thought to have an adverse impact on the independence of the selections. There is no administrative or electoral reason why no appointment and replacement of members of the control committees may take place in the same way as for other committees and committees of the local or county board. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the European Parliament finds that a minority of 1/3 of its members is sufficient for the Committee to raise a case on, for example: Assessing. In the context of the introduction of this right, particular attention was paid to the fact that minority rights make a fundamental contribution to strengthening the democratic control function. In the opinion of the Right, this principle should also apply in the municipal sector. Strengthening the independence of control committees and providing established minority rights in the work of the sample will contribute to better and more effective monitoring and supervision of local management. This is important in order to ensure the digestion and legitimacy of public decisions and services. In addition, we have been made aware that a political majority can place the sole representative of a party in the control committee against the will of this representative. In practice, the representative concerned is then deprived of the most important opportunity to perform his duties in a good manner. Right-wing opinion is undemocratic, and it contributes to the establishment of a political culture that hardly contributes to increasing involvement and participation in local policies. On the contrary, it will weaken the reputation of policy among its citizens. I record that the department has put down a sample that, among other things, shall consider the need to strengthen the position of the control committee. That's good. I also record that the majority of the committee does not want to take a decision on our proposals until the committee has said its opinion on the matter. This will mean that any change in the best case will take place well in 2010. The right believes that the matter should have been curative enough, but notes that the majority is of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e138	Let me first underline the key role of the control selection when it comes to ensuring trust from the inhabitants of both the municipalities and the county municipalities. I understand that the proposals in Document No. 8:4 from the minority in the committee is an expression of a well-functioning self-control. I agree that one should have. And then we could probably give each other some space to disagree on just how the local authorities can best regulate the operation of the control selection. For my part, I do not believe that changes in promises are the only way to strengthen self-control. But I'm busy strengthening both the control options, the audits and the internal control of the administration, and that's why the working group that's already referred to is reduced. I can now report that they are doing their job well, and I am pleased that the majority in the committee will let the working group finish before deciding whether there is a need to change the municipality at this point. Half of the working group are elected, the others are auditors, administrators, a researcher and a member from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It should be said that one here is going to do a lot of work and look at today's situation, and can make proposals for changes – one also looks at the need for changes in the laws. Let me particularly comment on proposal No. 1 in the option. This proposal is intended to prevent the plurality from forcing a party with only one representative of the local government to sit in the control committee. Kommunelova allows you to require ratio selection, and then a party may not be able to submit any list suggestions. In this case, no representatives can be placed in the selection against their will. There may be a need for more and better information here, but the municipality should be good enough at that point. I think there is a general reason to warn against expecting some of the changes in the laws to lead to much better results from the work in the control selections and audits. It also gives the wrong focus. It is more important to focus on how the control selection can fill its role. For control selections it is important to be careful. The task is to ask questions, difficult questions. It takes courage. No law changes make it easier to be considerate. Then it is important to look at the resources that control selections are allocated, and at the background and competence of the members of the selection. The most appropriate measures to strengthen control options and self-control in general seem to me to be local measures, not national ones. But I want to come back to this matter when the working group has delivered its report.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e149	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3085]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e165	We have a proposal for a representative from the local government representatives Gunnar Kvassheim, Vera Lysklätt, Borghild Tenden and Leif Helge Kongshaug on the environmental status of the annual report for the municipalities. I agree with the proposers that the municipalities are an important player in environmental policy Norway. It is important that all key actors in our society show a broad environmental exposure. This applies to residents, municipalities, county councils and countries. Municipalities carry out key environmental tasks every day, as the proposers write in their proposal – cleaning drinking water, sewage treatment, waste collection and several things. I agree with the proposers that targeted work on environmental and climate action is important for all municipalities and residents in Norway. Here the municipalities play a very central role and will continue to do so. It is those who must follow up their responsibilities and commitments in the field of the environment. The annual report shall provide citizens with information on the work of the municipalities during the year that has passed. I share some of KS' concerns that reporting can lead to more work and increased bureaucracy for municipalities. I agree that the municipality is an important player in achieving the goals of Stortinget through the climate agreement. The municipal law has as one of its main aims the promotion of sustainable development. This is very central, in the view of the majority. It is also important that citizens are informed about the activities of municipalities. Section 4 of the Local Government Act says something about this, that they should operate with active information about their business. The active information also includes the community's environmental efforts, and the majority believe that the annual report is well suited for such reporting. In its reply letter to the Committee on 9 December 2008, the State Council of Kleppa underlined the importance of environmental work in municipalities. She points out that targeted work on environmental and climate action is important for all municipalities and residents in Norway and that municipalities are following up their responsibilities and commitments in the environmental field. The majority therefore asks the Government to consider proposing that the municipal law should be supplemented to specify that the annual report should state the status of municipal environmental work. On this basis, we propose that Document No. 8:5 for 2008-2009 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e180	The Progress Party will not legislate an obligation for municipalities to report on the environment in its annual report. I am of the opinion that many smaller municipalities with today's municipal structure do not have the necessary competence to comply with such a statutory reporting obligation. Today it is not prohibited for municipalities themselves to report on this if they believe they have something to report to the outside world. The fact that private companies are already required to do this does not have to be a good argument for imposing the same on public administrations. The point of view of the Progress Party is that private companies in their time were also wrong. It's not going to be more right to impose the same thing on the municipalities. Such a statutory reporting obligation is very resource-intensive for municipalities and not fortunate in today's municipal structure. Is it for this municipality to spend time, money and resources on, in these very tight economic times that the municipalities are now in, under the current municipal minister? Today's arrangement, where the municipalities themselves can choose whether to explain this, is satisfactory for the Progress Party. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e191	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e194	The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, seems surprising that the Council of State does not regard the environment as important enough for it to be subject to reporting obligations in the annual report of the municipalities. Is that acceptable? Environment has never been more important than it is today. By letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that reporting obligations in an increasing number of areas lead to more work and bureaucracy for municipalities. We are all concerned that the municipalities get too much bureaucracy. It is therefore important to give priority to the areas in which targeted action should be taken. Environment is such an area. Putting the environment on the agenda in the annual report leads to a strengthening and necessary extra work, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. We also point out that the Government has proposed that the municipalities should do so, cf. Ot. pp. No 17 for 2008-2009, where the Ministry proposes that municipalities report in order to ensure high ethical standards in their activities. This is justified by the fact that the obligation to provide information in relation to the annual report could contribute to increased and more systematic attention to the ethical aspects of municipalities. It is precisely this Christian People's Party and the Left will have: a stronger and more systematic focus on environmental measures in the municipalities. Because still, it's just like that. half of the municipalities have a climate and energy plan. Many municipalities have not organised environmental information on their websites, and other environmental information for the inhabitants is usually both sporadic and fragmented. Then it is that many municipalities also do not have their own employees working on environmental matters on a full-time basis. They lack competence in this area. However, as several municipalities have adopted a climate and energy plan, we believe that the annual report will be suitable for annual reporting against the long-term objectives. Sweden is a neighbouring country that is systematically working on this, and we have some lessons to learn from the way they think from below and up, i.e. that municipalities have to be engines for environmental work, and that systematic reporting in the annual report will help with that. So we recommend an annual report, an increased focus on environmental work in municipalities, and we know that we need to start locally and think internationally and globally. I therefore recommend – and address – the proposals No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e207	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e210	Climate research centres have established that municipalities can contribute as much as 15 pst. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway through its activities and instruments. Municipalities are therefore a very important player in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and in achieving the targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions adopted by the Stortinget in the Climate Change Agreement. Municipalities also manage a number of other key environmental tasks. They grant emission permits, are large builders and buyers, a significant carrier and often a large property manager of both construction and natural areas. They manage drinking water for the inhabitants, sewage and wastewater treatment, waste collection and management, various types of protection, identify species diversity and land regulation. Many municipalities work both professionally and systematically in each of their sectors, while few municipalities provide a comprehensive and systematic representation of the local environmental status. It should be equally natural for the State and the municipalities to make demands on themselves for annual reporting such as requiring private business to do the same. At the same time as we in the Left supported this proposal, we invited our local politicians to make proposals locally to include environmental reporting in the municipality's annual report. They started quickly, and we have received feedback from 38 municipalities and county councils, where they have already decided to start without any legal requirement. Some also managed to get it in so quickly that it was included in the 2008 annual report. The results show that there is a need to systematise work on environmental and climate work locally. Reporting was short and a little concrete. It says something about the fact that both objectives, measurement criteria, measures, organisation and efforts are not coordinated enough to have the impact that can be drawn out. In particular, it is worrying that the county councils, where they like to have offensive climate plans on behalf of the county and the municipalities, are not able to report on either action or results. Sweden works much more systematically locally with environmental issues than we do in Norway. In Sweden, the Riksdagen has adopted 16 overall environmental objectives. They have created the www.milojomalsportalen.se, and each year follow-up to the environmental objectives. There is a great responsibility on the part of Sweden to break down the national targets regionally and to follow up the municipalities with local targets and measures. All important actions shall be implemented by 2020. Kungsbacka municipality south of Gothenburg is one of the municipalities in Sweden that have worked systematically with environmental objectives and actions. They have adopted both local environmental objectives for Kungsbacka and environmental objectives for municipal activities. Swedish municipalities like to have a position as an environmental or climate driver, and this shows how strategic and systematic Swedish municipalities work on environmental issues. In Norway, we have a lot of municipalities that don't even have their own position as an environmental consultant. For example, Gjøvik municipality, with over 28 000 inhabitants, in the so-called green energy district of Uppland, does not have a separate position for environmental matters. The result will be that environmental issues flow around both politically and administratively. In Sweden, many municipalities also have their own plans for environmental communication. In the municipality of Kungsbacka they have an annual environmental calendar that tells about the objectives of the year, and how and when the inhabitants can participate. In addition, they produce their own annual environmental report. Here we believe that there is much to learn from Sweden, and believe that a good start to a more systematic environmental work locally is to impose a reporting obligation on municipalities in the annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e221	Targeted work on environmental and climate action is important for all municipalities and for all residents of Norway. Priority should be given to environmental work. There is a lot of work to do at local level to improve the environment. I think it's central that the inhabitants feel that the municipalities are taking their environmental work seriously. I have great confidence in the municipalities. I believe that they themselves regard environmental work as important for the well-being of their citizens and will prioritise it in the future, even without a new obligation to report in the annual report. As an example, let me point out that very many municipalities are working on plans, or have planned climate and energy plans. As of 2010, it will be mandatory for all municipalities to draw up such a plan. Let me mention that there are also very good simple examples from municipalities – e.g. those who enter the Green Energy Community, 21 municipalities and one county municipality, working in a network of their own. Right now, those who belong under the cities of the future are gathering here in Oslo. There are 13 municipalities that have merged. They will sign an agreement with four departments, both the Ministry of the Environment and Development, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and the corresponding business organisations such as the NHO and HSH, the Sparebank Association and the Chairman of the KS, where the point is a cooperation programme between selected municipalities and the state to develop urban areas with the lowest possible greenhouse gas emissions and a good urban environment. It is a programme to run until 2014. I also feel, at the latest in the context of the action package and the maintenance work done in the municipalities, that municipalities are concerned about 40 pst. of stationary emissions occur in barley. They are working to ensure better construction with less energy use. I have tried an argument here in a separate letter about what is happening when there is a requirement for reporting in one field after another, but I take notice, of course, that a broad majority in Stortinget wants such a reporting obligation to enter the municipality. I'll make sure it's followed up. For the first time, it'll be a mission for the Ministry of the Environment to look at how it can be done, and then we'll come back to Stortinget in our own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e236	No more people have asked for the floor. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3086]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e252	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President proposes that three lines of reply be given to the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up for a speech list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e261	We have a proposal for a representative from the local government representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Oddvar Hallset Reiacam, Ib Thomsen and Jørund Rytman to investigate the consequences of making municipalities and county municipalities subject to the Accounting Act. In my view, this proposal is an example of what separates the Progress Party and our government. We do not believe that public sector efficiency should be improved through market-oriented policies with instruments such as price-sharing, competitive outsourcing, free choice of users and the right to challenge. Now is no time for more experimentation with market-oriented policies. We are in the midst of an international financial crisis which has just begun with such a political approach as the proponents of the Progress Party are now calling for. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, believes that today's financial budget and accounting systems are working in a good way, and that today's rules are well suited to the purpose of municipalities and county councils and the need for sound financial management. In view of this, the majority would not agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e270	The Party wishes to use the expertise and efficiency of the private sector within the public sector. This can only be done through a market-oriented policy with instruments such as price-sharing, competitive outsourcing, free choice of users and the right to challenge. These are tried and tested efficiencies. However, it assumes that prices are comparable in the municipal and private sectors, which is very difficult to implement in practice when municipalities and municipalities keep accounts according to principles other than those in the private sector. I believe the absence of periodicisation with results-related consequences in Norwegian municipalities contributes to the low priority of maintenance of own building mass. It would be a great advantage if local authorities were to obtain normal statements of financial position, so that local authorities would have an overview of assets, equity and liabilities at all times. There are strong indications that current legislation does not have good conditions to see the costs of wear and tear in municipal budgets and accounts. This means that there is insufficient comparative basis for assessing public operations against other ways of organising municipal service production or other ownership models of production units. This is very worrying, as over time the population of municipalities and county municipalities is likely to suffer from additional costs and poorer services. Under today's system, municipalities are charged unnecessary additional costs due to the fact that maintenance and depreciation costs are not carried out over regular operation, unless additional appropriations are actually made for this. I just want to remind you that the proposal is not a proposal to make a legislative change, but to investigate the consequences of a possible legislative change. My opinion is that knowledge and insight are good components of any decision-making process. By refusing to investigate what the best reasons for doing so should be investigated, and which could lead to better financial management and more sound use of resources in the municipal and county sectors, the decision is rejected. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e289	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e292	It is important that local government is designed in such a way as to encourage sound and sound financial management in municipalities. It is my view that today's rules are well-suited to fulfill the objectives of the municipalities and the care of good and healthy financial management. So I have noticed that the proposal is being put forward as part of a more market-oriented policy, focusing on the price of a piece, on exposure to competition, on free choice and on the right to challenge. I agree with the majority in this regard that it is not the market forces that are best suited to provide good welfare to the inhabitants of the municipalities. Good property management and maintenance of municipal buildings are important, both for sound financial management and for the best possible provision of services to residents. When the Progress Party and the Right believe that today's accounting rules can contribute to poor maintenance in the municipalities, I believe that there is no reason to believe that the implementation of accounting laws in the municipalities will provide better maintenance. Expenditure on ongoing maintenance is managed in many ways in the same way as in municipal accounting and accounting law. I can't see that accounting laws will ensure better maintenance in the municipal sector. Property management and maintenance is primarily a matter of good local governance, planning, priorities and, of course, of what means are available. Regardless of the accounting system that applies to municipalities, municipalities will allow money for annual maintenance. No accounting system will itself ensure that it is allowed enough. By accounting law, municipalities will be able to have an incentive to postpone maintenance, as maintenance must always be a priority within a given income framework. I am pleased to note that a broad majority in the Committee share my view that today's financial accounting system in the municipalities is working in a good way. No detailed explanation is required.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e301	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e304	I have understood that the Council of State does not share my view and the view of the Advance Party of making the municipalities liable under the normal accounting law in Norway. The Council of State stated that there would be no more maintenance in the municipalities, and that it will not just be by amending the Accounting Act. I fully agree with the Council of State on this. But does the Council of State see that it can make a need visible in private businesses? It should also make the needs of municipalities more visible by depreciating and setting aside funds for maintenance each year. It is more predictable, so that year after year you do not have to give money to the Veldike team. When we see that it is delayed by maintenance in the municipalities, this is one of the tools that you can use for this. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e309	I understand that the discussion is being raised, that there is reason to ask questions about whether there is anything about the way the account is carried out, which can contribute here. But then costs of ongoing maintenance in many ways are managed equally in local government and accounting law. That's what makes me think it's the system itself that's the point. But what's important, and where at least this year, luckily, has taken on a common cause, is to make sure that the municipalities have the opportunity to spend more money on maintenance. I'm looking for an action package. Maintenance is also something that all of us who are concerned about strengthening their efforts in municipalities should be aware of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e314	The Council of State is against the case. Also, the government freely mentions user choice as an example and says that time is not ripe now. I'm very surprised that it's possible to say that. We have been discussing elderly care and home-based services for many years. Of course, the municipality should have the law, the management system, but here it is a question of whether it is only the public that is to govern with home-based services and the care of the elderly. On the municipal day in Oslo, a European survey showed that Norway scores poorly on freedom of choice. Can the Council of State explain to me: why can't we in this country do it better, have more flexible systems and let users decide their everyday lives for themselves? How can the Council of State say that time is not ripe either?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e321	I can't actually think that in this context I spoke about free choice. What was the question here was different accounting systems. But let me follow the call and say: The representative can take a visit to Søndre Nordstrand. There they have practiced free choice over a long period of time. There they have found that free preferences can be suitable for those of the elderly who are at the best end of the scale when there is a need for help — where the need for help does not vary in any particular way. For others, who need some help to and from, free choice may be very demanding. Let me say that I am busy with efficiency. The quality community programme and KS’s efficiency network give a lot...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e327	The Christian People's Party agrees with the majority in Stortinget and with the Council of State that there is no more market economy, price financing or changes in the Accounting Act that provide better maintenance in municipalities. Here we agree. But the proposers have a point. In fact, the municipalities have so many statutory tasks that they never get to the point where they get to grips with the maintenance work and the necessary long-term investments. The Council of State said in its statement – at least implied – that it was the municipal economy and also the package of measures that would enable the municipalities to do so. That's right. But I want to challenge the Council of State, because it is because not all municipalities can afford to use the package of measures. It must not be the case that the package of measures presupposes that municipalities have a special share or that construction and maintenance is not possible. Does the Council of State see a need to strengthen the weakest municipalities, so that they can really take hold of their maintenance activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e334	Let me draw the line below all first: to ensure better services, KS is now in good hands, and we have very good experience with the quality community programme in the 138 municipalities, where one has a tripartite collaboration and is looking at how one can get the best possible services out of it. So for maintenance. It is true that, due to a very tight municipal economy since the beginning of the year, the municipalities have been forced to neglect the most necessary maintenance. When it comes to the package, the 4 billion dollars to go directly to maintenance are connected to it. They are distributed per. inhabitants and goes to all municipalities - so far with the label that they will be withdrawn if they are not used for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e341	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3086]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e351	Then Stortinget will vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e390	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 2-4, from Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 to 4 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e428	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e459	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e491	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘Document No. 8:5 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e515	During the debate, Ib Thomsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to assess the consequences of making municipalities and counties subject to the Accounting Act.» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:18 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-19.ana.ud235e544	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Is there anyone who wants the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
