ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e37	Honourable co-representatives! Former Major Inger Lise Gjørv has resigned at death, 70 years old. She sat on the Stortinget from 1977 to 1993. In her last staging period, she was president of the Odelstings. Inger Lise Gjørv was appointed, inter alia, in the Energy and Industry Committee and in the Justice Committee. From 1989 to 1993, she was a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe delegation. During this period she was also the Vice-President of the Council of Europe. When Inger Lise Gjørv left Stortinget in 1993, she entered directly into the position as a member of the Nord-Trøndelag, a position she was appointed to in 1991. She was also the first woman to hold this position. She stayed in the position until she turned 70 last year. Inger Lise Gjørv was no more than 50 years old when she was diagnosed with cancer and told that she had three years to live again. She shamed all the predictions. Despite several heavy radiation treatments and cell poison cures, she was in full-time work for all the 20 years she fought the disease. ‘I know I play chess and lose some pieces afterwards. The winner is known who is, but not how long the game lasts. I have a good life." This was what Inger Lise said in a VG interview a few years ago. With Inger Lise Gjørv's departure, and especially the Northern Roman society, we have lost one of the most visible and obvious personalities in the public space. At Stortinget she marked herself strongly in things that belong to life and the after kinship of: environment, nature protection, culture, peace and disarmament. As a member of the Industry Committee, she was in the middle of the struggle between growth and protection. Inger Lise Gjørv became early a brave spokeswoman for the watercourse nature. Her commitment to environmental protection was controversial, both inside and outside the Working Party. As a long-standing member of the National Parks Council, she had a strong influence on the design of the protection policy and, through her participation in the preparation of the National Parks Plan, NOU 1986:13, she helped to lay the foundations for the major national park projects in the country. The story of Inger Lise Gjørv is the story of the city girl from Oslo who became a farmer in the Nord-Trøndelag. She was also a teacher, an aestheticist, a politician, a statesman and a family anchor. Together with her spouse, she took over a obsolete farm in 1963 and rebuilt it into a pattern practice. As a politician, she could at times be contentious. She did not leave anything between debates and could be scratched in shape. But there was always a burning commitment to her. Inger Lise Gjørv has written in his history books. Not least, her name will be linked to the progress of women in North-Trandian politics and social life. For many in the county, she was perceived as their ‘presidency’. Then she was also the first woman from the Nord-Trøndelag who was elected to Stortinget. She was also a circuit breaker and inspirational for young North African girls in the Workers' Party's women's movement. Inger Lise Gjørv had to take many of the games other young girls could enjoy. Inger Lise Gjørv had a number of trusts in the Workers' Party and other organisations. She was, among other things, the president of the Innerøy Workers' Party and was in the Innerøy Presidency for a period of time. As in her other life, her interests stretched over a wide field. She sat, among other things, on the board of the Alva Myrdal Fund and on the board of the Friends of Norwegian Akeviters – to illustrate this. Inger Lise Gjørv is no longer among us, but her dishonesty, willpower and determination live on as the source of inspiration for many. We remember Inger Lise Making for her work on the Storting and shining peace over her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e73	Representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Lars Sponheim, Karin S. Woldseth, Bjørn Jacobsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Trond Lode, Jorodd Asphjell and Per Ove Width, who have our permit, have taken the seat again. From the Workers' Group there is an application for welfare leave from the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten from 4 May to 9 May. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application is processed immediately and accepted. The vara representative, Knut Werner Hansen, is called in to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e121	The President will make suggestions that four Presidents are elected for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the week – and see it as agreed. The President will make suggestions on Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen. – Other suggestions were not made, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen are thus unanimous in their election as seat president for this week. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e128	I am delighted on behalf of the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself to propose measures to strengthen the work against bullying in school. I would also like to make proposals on behalf of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself on a new funding model for initial training, and finally, proposals from the representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself ‘on doing written education and exams in parallel goals optional’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e133	The representative, Siv Jensen, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e137	On behalf of myself, I am delighted to promote representative proposals for increased pay in women's dominated low-wage professions and changes in working-time arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e142	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e156	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e163	This is a proposal from the Progress Party which seeks to remove the accounting obligation for small foundations, and it is also a related proposal that the Brønn Island Health Registers should waive the requirement for late payment for small foundations. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, sees that there are different needs to be balanced. We need control mechanisms to ensure that the capital of foundations is actually used for the purposes for which the foundations are established. At the same time, it is important to ensure that the necessary social control is respected without disproportionate burden on foundations. The Ministry has given a good account of this, and the majority are largely in agreement with the Ministry's assessment. The question has also been raised earlier in Stortinget, and in 2001 there was a unanimous justice policy that stated: ‘The Committee considers it important that all foundations be subject to an accounting and audit obligation in order to allow effective control and supervision of foundations. The Committee points out that if the foundation has a simple economy, the accounting and auditing activities will also be easy and it cannot be considered unreasonable to require this.» However, the majority have noted that the Minister of Finance will consider the relationship with the audit obligation in the bill submitted to the autumn as a follow-up to a NOU on audit obligations for small enterprises. The majority agree that if the obligation to submit pursuant to Sections 8 to 2 of the Accounting Act is to be continued for all foundations, the imposition of a late payment fee will be an appropriate instrument to ensure that the obligation to submit is actually complied with. However, the same majority have noted that practical, appropriate and technical aspects of the differentiation of fees by size will be assessed in the follow-up of that suspension by the Audit Committee by the Ministry. The members of the Committee of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party consider that a detailed assessment should be made as to whether the obligation to submit should be maintained for all foundations or whether, in the case of the smallest foundations, it is sufficient for them to be required to submit accounts to the supervisory authorities of the formation. These parties also promote proposals in line with this. I therefore recommend the position of the Committee and address the minority proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e179	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e182	The proposal that the Progress Party has taken up here affects many people, who feel that today's legislation is extremely unfortunate and flawed. I am very pleased that over several years we have made sure to clean up the legislation relating to foundations. We had seen a lot of examples of foundations where – to say it carefully – things weren't as they were supposed to be. It was then decided to make a better piece of legislation related to this, so we all agree on that. But what the Progress Party has been busy about are the small foundations, which see the law as very unreasonable – small foundations that have shot their homes very well over many, many years. We have seen, among other things: by means of the media, a number of examples of how accounting obligations can affect some of them. This suffocates the voluntary initiative in many ways if you make some mistake without it being intended. We've been very conscious in the design of the proposal not to say anything about where the limit was going. We had a wish, if the majority were to join our proposal, that the government should investigate where the boundaries would go for what would be small foundations and what would be large foundations. So we've been very conscious not to conclude that, because we think that would have been a way to go to figure out where to land. However, I note that we are not being implemented. Reference should be made, inter alia, to: Until 2001, when it was very clear in the Committee on Legal Affairs that it should be a little problematic to have this obligation to submit and to have this accountability and audit obligation. The party of progress was on that note. But it's clear it's okay to think about when you see how a regulation turns out. So I'm to some extent happy that the Minister of Finance says he's willing to look at any of this. I'm assuming that most people see that there's a lot of bad results here. I would, of course, like to address the proposals put forward by the Progress Party. I would also like to inform you that the Progress Party will support the minority proposal tabled by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. At least it goes a little further than just the remarks we have received from the majority and from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e193	The representative Ulf Leirstein has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2781]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e211	The political debate related to the financial crisis can be divided into three main elements. One is the cause of the financial crisis, and the extension of a system debate on the market economy, globalisation, the need for more regulation. The second relates to how financial markets can be made to function again and other measures to curb the growth of unemployment. And the third is how Norway can get strengthened out of the crisis. When the financial crisis and the economic downturn are intertwined, of course, it is tempting to take a debate on whether the Government has made Norway sufficiently robust in meeting downtime, and whether the packages came in time. But I want to leave that debate. I believe it is more important that we now look forward to discussing the time that has been. I believe that it is particularly important that we discuss how Norway can get out of the crisis strengthened, but I also believe that the system debate in which many are now participating is central. I believe that it is absolutely essential that we avoid protectionism and lasting setbacks in globalisation. It is important that we have a discussion about how we can ensure more that policy follows the economy. The economy is globalised, and from my political point of view, it is important that policy follows, and that we contribute to stronger international institutions. I believe that the importance of international institutions is now being seen within the EU. Some claim that the European Union is not acting effectively in the situation we are now, but I believe that we should be happy for the existence of the European Union. When the Finance Committee was in Spain, I asked the Spanish authorities what they thought had happened if Spain had not been a member of the EU and the euro. The answer was quite clear: yes, they thought that competition would be launched between countries with protectionist measures to protect their own jobs and industries, and a devaluation of national currencies. I believe that it underlines the importance of institutions, and I think it is important to discuss how to strengthen them in the future. From some environments it was claimed that the cause of the financial crisis was political governance. I believe that they are as wrong as those who claim that the financial crisis is the collapse of the market. What you can see is that you might find part of the answer that, especially in the United States, you had political governance that helped to create bubbles in the economy, among other things. related to the lack of collateral for residential loans. At the same time, we also know that it grew up an unregulated shadow banking system in the United States that gradually grew larger than the regulated one. It clearly shows that the market failure has also been evident. However, I am very pleased that the G20 countries have underlined that the market economy is important and must be ensured in the future, and that permanent setbacks in globalisation must be avoided. The market economy and globalisation have contributed to enormous economic growth in what is called the market economy era, in the period 1980-2007. The world's total GDP has increased by 145 pst. Several hundred million people have climbed out of poverty, and the proportion of extremely poor has been reduced from 34 pst. to 15 pst. The financial crisis is not due to the existence of markets, but it is because, as politicians, we do not have the power to set the right limits and frameworks for the market that can contribute to the smooth functioning of markets. And it's not right, as some people try to create the impression, that the financial crisis is because politicians don't understand social democracy. Reality may well be that they did not understand market economy, because the market cannot stand alone. Claiming that the unregulated market is somehow the right-hand utopia, I believe is strawman arguments. Anyone who knows the Right knows that we have always been clear about the need to regulate the market in order for competition to work and for consumers to be protected and that we are engaged in transparency, oversight and proper incentive structure. When it fails, the market also fails. I believe it is important that Norway now participates in the international debate, both on how to avoid protectionism and lasting setbacks in the world economy, and on how we can contribute to the creation of stronger institutions and ensure that policies follow the economy. Since this interpellation was presented, and since the Stortinget dealt with the previous crisis package from the Government, the situation for small and medium-sized enterprises has deteriorated. All reports submitted in Norway and internationally now paint a darker picture than just a short time ago. Dun & Bradstreet, a credit rating manager, presented a pre- Easter report showing that 50,000 Norwegian SMEs have the worst credit rating and are therefore at risk of going bankrupt. I believe that there is a need for new measures. Today, the right has proposed a temporary reduction in the employer’s contribution of 2.5 p.m., which will be an important and good handshake for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have heard that some say that the right is lubricating with blue, whether it goes up or down. I believe that there is an equally stupid argument that claims that the Workers' Party and SV always lubricates with red – always will have greater public ownership, will always have more public expenditure and prefer higher taxes. The reality is that the right is making proposals that are adapted to the economic situation we are in. We tightened up in good times. We believe that it is important now to use something more to stimulate, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, we believe that a lower employer’s fee is a proper and necessary measure. And to put it this way, if lower taxes are good right-wing policies, then there are very good right-wing policies around the world now. Many countries that also call themselves social-democratic use lower taxes because the level of interest rates and the weapons of interest, the first line defense, are now well under way. The second thing I want to challenge the Minister of Finance is how we can use the crisis for something positive, how we can ensure that the crisis can become a sort of turning point where we help create more, stronger and more profitable businesses when we get out of the crisis. I am convinced that the countries that do not see the opportunities, the countries that do not bet long-term in the current economic crisis, will lose out in competition when growth begins. Then it is important that we bridge the gap with the knowledge society by focusing more on higher education when we see that more young people want to study, that we focus more on research, that we help the employees in the companies to get more company-based training, so that they both strengthen the company and the employees' opportunities. The second is that we have to build modern infrastructure so that the goods get out faster on the market. We also need to focus more on environmental technologies. It is quite obvious that the requirements for more environmentally friendly behaviour are going to increase in the time to come. Then we have to make sure that we can use our environmental technologies, our knowledge, our competence and our environmental requirements for a competitive advantage for businesses. All environmental investments currently being made will help our businesses to be more competitive when competition increases and growth rises than it was before. The fourth is to give companies better framework conditions. Now to bet on making it easier to start businesses, easier to run businesses, is sensible policy. And that is where I think there is a need for a political shift. Because there is nothing more about values than business policy. Business policy is about individuals, individuals who start and run businesses, and investing in better framework conditions, simpler laws and regulations for people who start and create businesses and come up with new ideas is important for us to get out of the crisis. The last and fifth point is to modernise the public sector. I believe that it is also necessary to use the crisis period to modernise the public sector in order to ensure that the public sector becomes more a private sector partner and can be an advantage to our businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e243	First, a few comments on what the interpellant Sanner was at the beginning, that is, what we now see as a very important part of the international debate in the wake of the financial crisis. I do not know if the representative Sanner invited to a general EU debate. I am attending in case the representative Sponheim's powerful posts on a later occasion in this way! I didn't mean to dwell on it in particular, but in this situation, everyone can see that the EU is too small. It is the global and international economy that has been the starting point for this financial crisis, based on the instability that has occurred in the United States. It was a front page of the weekly magazine Newsweek a few months ago, where it said, "Now we're all socialists." It's probably hard to take, because in Norwegian politics, not everyone has converted to it. But it says something about the mood that is now relative to the desire for better and more effective regulation. I agree with Mr Sanner that it is not the amount of regulation that is interesting, but that one actually regulates what is important to prevent a similar financial crisis from happening again. It's obvious how many of them thought that the state was previously just a clip around the foot, which now stands scratching at the state's doors all over the world. It is very important for our government to follow the initiatives taken internationally. They are discussed in the G20 and discussed in the IMF. It is about how to prevent the kind of risk spread that has been the starting point of this financial crisis, where the uncertainty and risk of US mortgages were spread in such a way that they could not be recovered, thus creating instability in an entire world economy as to how to assess credit ratings, as to how to exercise effective supervision, as to the international struggle currently taking place in the context of tax havens. And we're going to come back to that on several occasions in Stortinget. It is also the case that we are about to present a revised national budget, and then, of course, the Government is also presenting up-to-date analyses of what is now the situation for the Norwegian economy and for the world economy. It's true that we haven't had such a serious decline in the world economy since World War II. There has not been such a sharp fall in international exchanges in a hundred years, while the IMF now estimates that the fall in economic activity in developed countries could be 4pst. This year, and it's going to grow zero next year. A significant decline in emerging markets is also expected. We cannot prevent the Norwegian economy from being affected by what is happening outside, but we can present a policy that limits the adverse effects. We have a very high ambition to combat unemployment. We have set ourselves the objective that, through this crisis, we will be among the countries of Europe with the lowest unemployment, and that we will be the ones who come most offensive out of it. I agree with Mr Sanner that all crises also involve some possibilities. I'll be able to come back to that in a minute. But I just want to say briefly about what we have done, because the measures we have proposed have proved very much to be effective, despite enormously bad news from the international economy, but it is not possible to say that the situation has stabilised. This exchange mechanism, with which we were out very quickly in relation to the liquidity in the banking markets, has worked. Now there are auctions of 100 billion kroner. We see that many banks have benefited from this, and we see that the framework that the Storting has set for this scheme is holding. The size has also unanimously joined the creation of the State Financial Fund and the creation of the State Bond Fund. Both of them have been granted 50 billion kroner from the Stortinget, and we see that they are now included. The central government bond fund is in progress. The State Financial Fund has been established and is immediately operational. These measures have been very important, especially for business. It is business that has been the starting point for this, because our great concern at some point was that even good, profitable, forward-looking projects would be struggling with funding, not because the projects were not good enough, but because the banking and credit markets were doing just as they did. It is also important to note that the reduction in interest rates that we have now had has been of great importance to business as well. I have noticed that the representatives have stopped talking about the red-green interest rate level, but the interest rate reduction has thus been 3.75 p.m., and also the premium without the actual interest rate has fallen significantly since these measures were implemented. It is incredibly important for many in the business world and for the framework conditions they have in the future. It is very uncertain what is now happening in the stock market, but so far this year the main index of Oslo Børs has risen from the stock level that was in March, with approx. 20 pst. until now. But it's extremely uncertain. What is then very important is that we now see, based on what kind of crisis it is we are going to deal with, whether the measures we are proposing are targeted. In addition to what we have done in relation to financial markets, the government has proposed a package of measures. This means that Norway is among the countries with the most expansive policies around the world to combat the financial crisis, while, after all, we are hit less than most. These measures are precisely designed to do sensible tasks in the public sector, because there we know that the measures can be of rapid importance. However, it is not the public sector that performs these tasks, so this is the mission of many small and medium-sized enterprises around Norway. Because this package of measures is also so green, it helps to bring up markets for much sensible green production. I have a perspective for our action in relation to the financial crisis, that we have to get out of it on the other hand with better solutions for the climate crisis than we had when we went into it. We know that the climate crisis is going to last for decades, but we also know that the companies that cope with the green transition and meet the new markets that will come when the financial crisis passes will be companies that have changed and used the crisis to ensure that they also have a better economic foundation. The action package has just been designed to attract the markets for it and become interesting to a terrible number of companies. So over to some of the concrete claims that stand in this interpellation, and that I'm thunderingly disagree with. The government has just shown a very pragmatic attitude towards fiscal policy. The interpellant is completely wrong. It is the Right who shouts for tax relief every time they make suggestions, no matter what the problem is initially. Our government has shown a great deal of pragmatism as to what kind of action it is that we are proposing. As a starting point, we have to keep the level of fiscal policy in 2004. We have, but in this crisis we have proposed a system that provides temporary tax relief for business over two years of almost NOK 11 billion. This means that a very important part of the Government’s package of measures was just tax proposals that were supposed to take companies that were temporarily in a difficult situation, but which they have good hopes that they could get out of it well afterwards. We have rejected the question of reducing the employer’s fee, which is actually the main point of the package of measures presented today by the Right, which in the period for which the Right proposes it, would mean approx. 23 billion kroner less in the income of the community, with half a year this year and half a year next year, as far as I can understand – if it is wrong, the representative Sanner gets right on me – but there is at least a reduction in the employer's fee in general of 2.5 p.m., as far as I understand. But now the crisis is such that parts of the Norwegian economy still have problems finding skilled labour, while the parts that are most vulnerable to the fall of the international economy are exports and the competitive sector. It is very important that you see how the crisis develops in Norway. Significant parts of the Norwegian labour market and working life are not directly affected by the current financial crisis. These are the areas that are particularly vulnerable to the fall in international metal prices, etc., which is the major challenge. Here I fully agree with the inter-pellant that the measures that can be taken to address training and to improve the qualification of the knowledge that we know is in any case needed in the future are very important instruments for this part of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e282	It is always nice when you can see that you agree on something. One of the things I enjoyed was that the finance minister said that it's not the amount of regulation, but the effect of regulation that was the important thing, and that it was important to be pragmatic in the situation we're in now. I think both are important. First of all, it was not my point to start a major EU debate. I don't have ambitions to convince the Minister of Finance in these few minutes. My point in drawing out the EU is that it illustrates the importance of international cooperation and international institutions. You can dream of wanting something much bigger, something that covers the whole world, but I think that's a bad argument for what we see actually works. I am not in any doubt for a moment that without the EU and without the euro, there would be a rather devastating competition between countries to protect their own market and to devalue their own currency. As the Minister of Finance says, it is true that in the first round the export industry is struggling. However, all the reports that are coming now show that there is a great diversity of small and medium-sized enterprises, including in the service sector and engineering companies, which are gradually beginning to wear off. It is quite obvious that when exports are struggling and it is getting fewer contracts, it will eventually begin to affect the other sectors as well. That is why we believe that this is a good measure. At least I am not in doubt about the clear signal that comes from business organisations and companies, and that is that a lower employer's fee will now be an important instrument. I refer, as I said, to the report that came from Dun & Bradstreet, which shows that up to 50,000 small and medium-sized enterprises are now starting to have problems because they have the worst credit rating. However, where I think the Minister of Finance was too weak, what we should do to get out of the crisis strengthened. If it is the measures contained in the previous crisis package that are, in a way, the trump to show that we are now going to improve environmental technology, be more innovative and make sure that our businesses are at the forefront, it is not good enough. If this is the research report that came last week, which is proof of the future, I do not think it is good enough either. I believe that through the economic muscles of Norway, and the competence we have, we should just use the situation we are now in, to make sure that we get stronger and better when we get out of the crisis. It is not least about what is done in higher education and competence, both in enterprises and throughout the school cycle. Today, the Financial Newspaper produced a report from the OECD that explained why Norwegian students are doing worse. In the situation we're in now, we have to make sure that we also bet at school, so that our students get more knowledge and will be able to assert themselves better in the competition that's coming. So I miss a clear and clear strategy on how to strengthen businesses and get out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e295	First, a few words about what the economic picture now looks like in Norway. I will come back to that when we present the revised national budget. The effect of the fall in interest rates so far, if we were to turn it into tax bills, has been in the order of NOK 25 billion. It helps individuals, and it helps businesses. It's a very powerful stimulus. We see that because so many have not tied interest rates over many years, it also seems very direct and very fast into the Norwegian economy, unlike many other countries. That means that we see that the private consumption is now flattening out. That means we see that in the housing market there are some signs of more stable conditions. It's a little early to pass judgment on it. But that also means that, in relation to the overall picture of households and business, the effect of the fall in interest rates is much more powerful than we can achieve by using fiscal instruments. That's why we've concentrated on setting up such a package of measures as we've done, and we're holding on to it. Then I don't think the representative Sanner would have expected a whole new proposal now because he has promoted an interpellation in the Stortinget. But let me say that I very much agree with many of the perspectives that Mr Sanner has on how we must now ensure that we focus on what is going to last through the crisis and build ourselves robustly on new challenges. It's about research. These are appropriations for research. But it's also about the quality and design of research, and how we focus our research efforts on the future. I fully agree that climate issues and issues about how to develop more good and effective instruments – to limit emissions, for example, which can be produced next time – are a very important part of it. I also fully agree with everything that concerns knowledge upgrading. Then I'd like to start with the nursery. This is clearly the largest knowledge promise that has been made in Norway for very many years, is the huge effort in kindergarten because we have gained more and more knowledge of how important early efforts are. Making sure that we upgrade the entire school and education cycle is incredibly important for how we're going to make it, not only in the next few years, but also further into the future. Because no matter how we look at Norway, knowledge and people are our most important asset.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e304	The representative Sanner claims that the government party is primarily concerned about the temporary nature of the measures against the financial crisis. Sanner's assessment of the government's policy is strongly trendy, as usual. Our policy is to lay the foundation for value creation and growth. The struggle to secure jobs has always been the most important task of the Labour Party. Creating and sharing is one of our mottos. Today's Business wrote on 29 April this year about a research project led by Professor Kalle Moene at the University of Oslo. The project should look at how the system of large welfare schemes, as our policy focuses on, brought economic growth. Preliminary results show that the Scandinavian model of small pay differentials, good welfare arrangements and centralised pay-rolls provides high employment, high innovation and high productivity growth. We all see that this policy is a success. Norway entered the financial crisis with a unemployment rate below 2 pst. Today we have an unemployment solution that is too high, it is in the eye of approx. 2.8 pst., towards about 8 pst. in most other northern European countries. In other words, the Government Party's policy provides a better starting point for meeting the financial crisis than any other policy we see around us. Even though most economic experts warn and claim that there would be a cover in the economy, few saw the force in, the speed in and the extent of the decline. The financial crisis is about to start. The international financial crisis was inconceivable, as the Minister of Finance also pointed out. Then it becomes important to face the problems with the right medicine. Already when the state budget was presented last October, we saw which way it was. So we put in an expansive budget to counteract something of the decline. At that time, Right and Sanner demanded a tight budget. We quickly received a message from the business community about financing problems. Without access to finance, businesses would stop and unemployment would increase dramatically. It was therefore extremely important that both companies and individuals should again have the opportunity to obtain loans. We therefore presented a banking package already in October last year. Through new government bonds of up to DKK 350 billion, the government gave banks security so that they could get new long-term loans. Noregs Bank issued fixed-rate loans at the same time as two years' term, especially directed against our smaller banks. This would make it easier for them to obtain loans in the international credit market. In addition, we are expanding other funding possibilities, including: extended lending framework for the Municipal Bank, extended the framework for GIEK, various financing measures to ensure the export industry, extended building loan guarantee for shipping and extended the framework to Innovation Norway, to include some key actions. Despite a number of funding measures, it soon became clear that cancellations and lay-offs were underway. The package of measures presented on 26 January this year presented proposals for comprehensive employment and welfare measures aimed at several sectors. In the package, the government proposed measures for 20 billion kroner – of which nearly 17 billion were new measures on the expenditure side of the budget and 3.25 billion DKK targeted taxation for business. As far as possible, these measures were aimed at providing the fastest possible effect on the labour market. In addition, we have strengthened Nav in several ways to help people who are now free. Furthermore, it became clear during the winter that business lending was still not satisfactory. That is why we came up with additional funding measures on 8 February. We create both the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund, as pointed out by the Minister of Finance. Moreover, we have always been concerned about facilitating the cancellation of interest by Noregs Bank. Since October last year, the Central Bank has reduced interest rates by 3.75 percentage points. This helps to facilitate the everyday life of Norwegian families and companies that have loans. The interest rate alone is NOK 25 billion – for a family with DKK 1 million in loans, that means NOK 27 000 less in interest expense, after tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e327	The interpellant raises a very important issue and an important matter that we have to take very seriously. Already in the 1100s, the word ‘entrepreneur’ was used in French with the meaning: the one who gets done something – the creative man who gets done something, the one who sees opportunities in challenges where others see only problems, and neither gets to do anything or will do anything. Entrepreneurs discover new knowledge, come up with new ideas, use new technologies to produce better – go their own way. They are visionary and dreamers who are obsessed with an idea. At the same time, the realists who change direction quickly are if another direction turns out to be more affordable. Entrepreneurs are action-oriented energy bundles, awake and look for opportunities, and are at least not deterred by uncertainty, danger and crisis. Entrepreneurs make a nation richer. A nation with many entrepreneurs, where they are allowed to unfold without regulation, little bureaucracy and no high tax burden, provides a happy, rich nation with many optimists. Studies show that entrepreneurs are happier with both work and life than employees, regardless of their economic level. Founders always see light in the dark tunnel, says researcher Jon Erik Svendsen at the BI School of Commerce, who has actually researched this. It is calculated that it usually takes five years from entrepreneurs to get an idea and until they make money. But the entrepreneurs' ability to stay does not make them give up, despite their impatient nature. They have so much faith in their projects that they can convince themselves and others that they will succeed. And when something's wrong, they often find outside explanations. Entrepreneurs and innovation exist everywhere, except in social economy textbooks. Having entrepreneurs and innovation is not something that politicians can decide or decide. Innovation and founding begins with one who gets an idea – a creative person. The idea might be developed by another, and then made a commercial mass product of a third. We cannot adopt foundations, but we politicians can decide that entrepreneurs and businesses should not be taxed in full. We can do our part to have fewer regulations, no bad regulations, less bureaucracy and less form fields. We can imagine two times before we propose a new law or regulation, new restrictions, new injunctions or bans – or another form a trader has to fill in. When BusinessWeek visited Microsoft's office, they observed a bunch of coffee cups and espressokrus and sleeping bags hung up on the back of the doors, not because the employees were whipped to work, but because they were devoured by their work. It is in the same way that we big-time politicians – probably many of us, I hope – have slept on the sofa in the office several times because we love our work, or because for other reasons we have to or should sleep over to the office, not for economic reasons, not because it is mandatory for us big-time politicians, but so that we get the job done. In fact, as far as I know, we are exempt from the Working Environment Act, so that we can do it that way. But could this have happened here in Norway, outside this building? I don't think so if you're going to work legally. The majority of the population has regulated and decided that there should be a maximum limit on the number of hours per week to work, and that ‘stimulates’ via the tax law by limiting overtime work. You tell the founder to write down the number of hours he works, so that the state can tax the person. The founder must then charge regular wages, even though he has actually worked about 24 hours a day, and does not want to pay. But even if that's the case, researchers and psychologists have actually concluded that we're the happiest at work. It is due to the strong joy that arises in the creative moment when we humans are engrossed by an activity and feel that it is challenging, but nevertheless manageable. In the same survey that I have referred to, it is concluded that those who are most exposed to regulation are those in the traditional women's churches in the public sector. Because these professions contain a lot of routine and small opportunities for self-initiation, and where it is periodically interrupted by sudden and incomprehensible reorganization from above, it is difficult to adapt. It is therefore not surprising that these professions are being burned out and that the number of sick-seekers in these sectors is falling apart. Therefore, I hope that the Government will also look at this, and facilitate a better framework for entrepreneurs – in the form of lower taxes, better rules and better rights for self-employed people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e348	I have to say that I feel insecure about the crisis we are in, which is now reaching the workplaces and the real economy. But then it's benevolent – and perhaps also reassuring – to sit here and hear the head of the committee, Reidar Sandal, tell us that first of all, everything that comes from the opposition, claims and also trendy, while at the same time he can reassure us that what is done here at home is the best thing that can be done anywhere that you can compare with. On the basis of that, I feel that the travels made by the Finance Committee this winter have actually been unnecessary. We could have sat here at home and more or less listened to what the government told us, that this was going to work. I have to say I'm absolutely more insecure, and there are also a lot of the business managers and employees around that I'm talking to. Then I hear the Minister of Finance – to the extent that the chairman of the Committee – say that the percentage of unemployment is low. Yes, it is, and it is definitely going to be one of the lowest in Europe. But it doesn't help those who get free here at home! That's what's our point. The finance minister also says that the stock market has increased by 20 pst. It is good that the Minister of Finance is concerned about the stock exchange baskets, but it also has no significance in the situation we are now in in with regard to the real economy. Now we have to take care of the workplaces. In order to take care of jobs, we have to have businesses, and to have businesses, we actually have to have owners – whether we like it or not. The measures now being implemented are on the tax side. The budget from last autumn, which was prepared as an expansive budget for resolving the crisis, was – as it looked to us others – an electoral campaign budget, which was later renamed a crisis budget. Later we've seen very little of what goes into the individual workplace, and I think we're going to notice that in the future. Therefore, the measures proposed by the Right at the latest today are very important. In short, we need to create more optimism in the companies. It doesn't help that interest rates have gone down. It is excellent that interest rates have fallen, both for those who have mortgages, and for those companies that have loans, but we have to create an optimism that makes people want to borrow new money, even if the interest rate is low – that's what I hear. I hear we're afraid to borrow new money to invest, to start something new, and we're afraid to hire new people. Finally, for example, our proposal to reduce the employer’s fee could mean a lot. I believe that this relationship between safe businesses, safe owners, which is not unduly taxed, and last year's budget, was completely wrong. So you went directly into the owner's taxes, which again went into the workplace. If you don't have owners, if you don't have optimistic investors, you don't have companies either. The financial and credit systems work, and that is also excellent. The Committee has agreed, and the Storting has agreed. It is when we come down to the micro level, and that is where we are now, that action needs to be taken to help each enterprise – not by specific measures targeting each enterprise, but by general measures to help small businesses, as there are tens of thousands of them in this country. Employment, which in many of these companies was high as late as 2008, fell in 2009. This is why we should also look at our proposal to spread revenue from 2008 in a transitional arrangement, in order to balance revenue over two to three years and maintain the fiscal liquidity of businesses. What was done was done for the deficit companies in 2008. But the large number of businesses had profits, and it's like those that it's important to take care of further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e365	We've had an amazing boom in recent years. The profits of industry have been enormous, and this has provided the basis for the tax increases that, among other things, have taken place. We've been on. I guess, since Jan Tore Sanner now thinks it makes sense to put taxes down in such a situation, that he also agrees that it is reasonable for business to pay more in times of high profit. I don't understand where the number 11 billion comes from. Many of the tax changes we have made have not been primarily tax increases for business. There have been redeployments, for example: from the taxes on wealth. We've been redeployed. We've taken from Rimi-Hagen and let him contribute more to the community. We have made sure to provide the small savers – whom Jan Tore Sanner often calls for, but perhaps not in this context – with tax relief. Common people have been taxed, among other things. through what we did with regard to the property tax, and through the inheritance tax, which we changed in exactly the same way. There are many small and medium-sized enterprises that have been taxed by us, precisely through the conversions we have made in connection with the inheritance tax. I expect that Jan Tore Sanner is willing to clarify where he has these 11 billion from. At least it is that in the bad times we have now, we have made sure to provide a temporary tax relief – precisely to the companies that are struggling, targeted at just the companies that are running short. Jan Tore Sanner and Right doesn't do that at all. In the Right Package of 15 billion kroner, which was presented today, the major measures are not aimed at those who are unemployed. They're targeting the companies that have a lot of people working. In other words, they don't help the industry. It does not help the industry that does not sell aluminium abroad, that there will be a lower employer’s fee. They don't get five more flat ears. Those companies need extra demand out there, and the extra demand won't just show up because Jan Tore Sanner and Right want to give them an extra 11.6 billion kroner. If we look at what we want to highlight as the most important thing we have to do in this crisis – and which has been raised by many, including Jan Tore Sanner – to ensure that the Norwegian economy is transformed in a more environmentally friendly direction, then there is nothing in the proposal that the Right proposes that goes in that direction in particular. The large pot is set at the employer’s fee. If we were to make an environmentally friendly transition, it had to be through targeted investment. And I can't see from the press release sent out from the Right that there's something special about the environment. Obviously, if any of the funding for research that lies there is earmarked for the environment, it's positive, but it's slim compared to the big money in Right's bet. I am therefore afraid – we have always been concerned about this – that ‘environment’ is a catchword that the Right draws out in celebrations. For our government, it has been an important step to take in connection with the crisis we are facing. I think it's possible to agree on some overall issues related to competence. It is clear that in the case of those who are now unemployed, especially in the two major industries of construction and construction, and industrial work, action must be taken to take care of them, such as to ensure that they are more competent. But the third largest group of unemployed people are people who have no professional background, who have no professional background. For that group, the focus on competence and empowerment is extremely important, together with a business distortion towards environmental action. We believe that if we are to spend a lot of money first, it is not reasonable to do as Jan Tore Sanner and Right suggest, namely a wide tax base that goes primarily to all the companies that have employees today, but one should bet on the environment and on competence – on a much larger scale than what Jan Tore Sanner and Right are proposing. So finally, our government has one of the most ambitious efforts in view of the crisis we are facing, and that in a situation where we have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We've said that we're going to make sure that we have as a goal and as a guide throughout this period. Then we've still grasped the interest rate. Because it's not right, as Jan Tore Sanner says, that the weapon is almost exhausted in Norway. In the United States and Sweden, the interest rate is between 0 pst. and 0,5 pst. and in Norway at 2 pst. So we still have something to do with it, although I think that more targeted investment in those sectors where there is high unemployment is more accurate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e382	Just before we started this debate, the new figure came from the European Commission on economic development in the EU countries. So now we're where GDP is going to fall by 4 pst. this year in this zone, and unemployment can rise to 11 pst. Next year. Also for 2010, the Commission expects the economy to fall – if not by more than 0.1 pst. But this is a severe downward adjustment since the previous estimate, which was in January. Then you expected a fall of only – and it is strange to say ‘only’ in this context – 1.9 pst. for the current year, while expecting real growth next year. It has therefore turned to a decline, and it is clear that this also has an impact on the Norwegian economy. The question of Sanner's travel in the interpellation is in many ways one of the most important questions that can be asked in terms of economic policy design both for this year and for the next years. Then we know – and we're told – whether we're in position or in opposition, that it's not a simple answer to give, and that we're not living in a vacuum in this country. We cannot guarantee that businesses will not end, that no one will lose jobs as a result of the economic downturn. I'll give the Minister of Finance right in that. But we can do something, and we've also discussed that at the Christian People's Party national meeting this weekend. Even though you can get the impression through the media that there are mostly completely different things that have been discussed there, this has also been the topic. We insist that we could get started earlier within the current year's budget to do something to meet the decline we're all seeing. So we proposed for the first time a larger use of oil than the government itself proposed in the original budget for this year. We thought the government was too late at the lab last fall. Then we also think – although there are modifications – that the Government has had some ideological barriers to providing business with better tax conditions in a challenging time. But I hope and believe that what the Minister of Finance says is right, that we are flexible, and that we will also recognise it when we come to the presentation of the revised national budget. But the government's tax cuts last fall should be in addition. In its 1st May speeches, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have stressed that we should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and that is a seemingly good goal. The point is we're already there. After all, we have to measure against the opportunities we have in this country to counteract unemployment – and we have state financial instruments in a completely different division from all, most countries. Then our ambitions must also correspond to the possibilities we actually have. But I am aware that it is of course more comfortable to use such a goal than to figure out what you have as a goal to get the time off as low as possible. So what can we do, as the representative Sanner invites us to? We still believe that more can be done in different areas – flexibility within the regulation of leave, that one can look further at what can be done specifically to the export industry, which in many cases is struggling. We cannot make demand abroad, but we can facilitate the situation of the companies involved, and we can increase – where we agree with the Government – domestic demand, so that for example. The construction industry has more to do than not using the instruments we actually have. We can, as has been said, increase the capacity building of those who are now out of work, and we can bet on higher education. There we expect the Government to be revised. It is almost incredible to see that many study places in different sectors need, as is currently the case, to reduce next year’s uptake in different areas. So we come back into the revised budget and hope it can be a common promise to ensure that as few as possible have to stand in the queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e398	I would like to thank you for the interpellation and for the important question of how Norway will be strengthened out of the financial crisis. I also remember with pleasure that what the representative Sanner is now saying means an emerging system debate on the background of everything. We in the Center Party are very happy about that. In the near future, the Ministry of Finance will set up a greed commission — or a financial market commission — where this can be addressed further, and we are looking forward to that discussion. We have already been told that what the Progress Party calls maritime regulatory markets is just a theory and is contributing to the crisis. There are no other parties here in Stortinget that support that idea. However, what is more important than the extreme theory of ‘sea-regulating markets’ is the liberalisation of the international financial market which has taken place over the past 25 years and which has resulted in an increasing risk and associated increase in short-term benefits. In the United States, the Glass-Steagall Act was repealed in 1999 and contributed to that crisis. With the Glass-Steagall Act, there was to be a distinction between commercial banks and investment banks in order for investment banks to stick to what they were supposed to do, and business banks were to stick to lending activities. The investment banking activities under Norwegian and European conditions have occurred as part of the financial group or integrated fund brokerage companies or with several roles/concessions. Norway introduced the financial group already in 1988, and immediately after that, we got the UNI Storebrand scandal. Until April 2004, US investment banks could only borrow a maximum of 12 times their equity. The limit was then lifted and, in parallel, the capital adequacy rules were circumvented by means of credit insurance and the securitisation of loans. The representative Sanner talked about the shadow banking system, which was unregulated. Some of it is in what I have referred to. What is central is that one has to regulate differently. What's wrong, and what the Right will do with it, we haven't heard any suggestions about. We hear about the international political driving rules, which we in the Central Party fully agree with. This will mean that both the International Monetary Fund, the World Trade Organisation and the World Bank will have to become new driving rules, where free flow is replaced by limited flow, and where we take the consequences of an extremely risky system that we have lived under. Within financial markets it must be reorganised and the rules must be amended. The centre party has previously proposed that insurance companies should only be able to insure life and property, not financial risk, that deposit banks should only carry out lending and not speculation in financial instruments and currencies on behalf of the bank. We should also have separate ownership structures between banks and finance. Another important point that has been addressed in the interpellation and on which the centre party is very concerned is the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. It concerns both unincorporated enterprises and enterprises in excess of a certain size which find it interesting to start as a limited liability company or a limited liability company. For the Central Party, the principle is that its greater active participation and responsibility is its better framework conditions, for example. in the case of taxes, and own share law provisions for start-ups in order to provide for a greater long-term perspective, inter alia. greater requirements for equity. Furthermore, incentives to build up larger equity that should remain in the business, lapse of statutory requirements for companies with less than 5 million. kr on the market, and not least the same competitive situation for Norwegian registered companies and companies registered under the NUF or European company – this is essential to provide predictable and correct framework conditions. With regard to the main issue of the interpellation — how to strengthen Norway in the future — it was said that the effort must be long-term, a must focus on education, research, modern infrastructure, environmental technologies and the modernisation of the public sector. Yeah, we totally agree with that. However, the most important thing now is to give this a new and concrete content. For us, it is central that business policy should shift from business neutrality to business activity in priority areas, which are keys to addressing international challenges related to the climate crisis and the food crisis. In it is that we have to think about nutrition policy, we have to go away from commodity sales to the processing of our raw materials – the processing of our gas into chemistry, for example in Hammerfest, the processing of timber into chemistry, for example on Honey Foss through synergy. To this end, powerful economic instruments are needed through a State investment bank. This is possible if one adheres to the objective of environmental protection, correction of market failures and limited impact on international competition and trade. Here's a great opportunity, and we're waiting for what's the Right answer to these central questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e417	One may have many expectations about what such a crisis could lead to, and perhaps hope for what it could lead to. I think that when we sum up these years in a few years, we'll see that the world is back on track with an increasingly comprehensive global economy. It's not going to be less trade, it's going to be more trade. I'm pretty sure it's not going to be less market economy, it's going to be more market economy. But we can hope and believe that there will be a better regulated market economy, that there will be a better framework and thus a more stable situation even in a global economy that will develop further. I'm not going to accept the invitation to take the big debate on how to get more global policies in a global economy, just to say that the world has so far been quite helpless in using the instruments we have. It's just to remember that the Doha Round in the WTO, which started in 2001, and which I think was due in 2004, is now five years in overtime. It is an institution in which most countries are co-owners and in which they have not been able to get that far. It could have been a contribution, at least to show the world that we are able to take global political action to regulate trade. That's what this is about. I will focus on the challenge itself: how can Norwegian policy use this crisis to do things right and in a better way? I do not belong to those who believe that the effects of this crisis can be eliminated by politics. It can be defined by policy, and it is realistic. I am the one who, from this debate and this theme came up last autumn, has been concerned with the export-oriented enterprises that have markets far beyond Norway and are beyond the reach of the markets that can be created on the expenditure side of the State budget. The State cannot buy their products. The State can only do what it can to reduce the costs of these companies. We see that these are a lot of companies that now have major problems in Norway. It's quite right, as the interpellant Sanner says, that now the indirect effects start coming, namely for all the companies that have export companies like their customers. There we have all the small businesses, all the service producers – there we have very many, perhaps the entire breadth of Norwegian business, which is now being hit. My challenge includes: in the case of the revised, which is now coming, is to look a little, without the harsh principles of the Government, at what can be done to facilitate the costs of enterprises, preferably in the short term, in a very focused way. The Prime Minister, and I also understand the Minister of Finance, has been busy in May 1st to boast that we are going to be the best in the world on employment. That's good. But at my discretion, it's not possible to be the best at employment if you're not the best at businesses. That's what this is about, if you don't think everyone is going to get their pay from the spending side of public budgets. Then I hope – and that is my challenge – that the best way to work is to deliver policies that make you the best at business. But then there's something called that it's never so bad that it's not good for anything. Now that we get the news about high-record applications to our institutions, universities and colleges, we can't make it the saddest thing in the world. It's a great opportunity when young people who go from high school and don't get the job or apprenticeship they had hoped for apply to our institutions. Of course, it is sad that they do not get the job they might have dreamed of a year or two ago, but it is not a bad alternative for the nation of Norway that all the young people apply to our institutions. Then my challenge is one to the revised national budget, which is presented in ten to eleven days’ time – it is well that the policy is closed, and that proofreading, printing and the like are close at hand – to ensure that our educational institutions are able to absorb all the young people who are now applying for it, to ensure that they do not have to man down, to ensure that all the research that will take place at the same time as they are to be trained – because it is research-based education that is the whole point of these institutions – does not suffer because there are now many more students. So it's challenge number one. I think it's going to require billions of counting on the revised national budget, which is now coming. The second challenge is related to the important question that I think many around the world are now raising: what will become the new driver out of the crisis – what industry, what technology will drive us out of the crisis and into economic growth? While computer technology has been driving in many ways over the last 20–30 years, climate technology is becoming increasingly widely believed. My Challenge No. 2 to the revised national budget. the content of the climate agreement, to make the Norwegian renewable sector as competitive as the countries around us. It will not only create a domestic market in the renewable sector, but it will also provide the basis for a technological effort in an area that most people believe will be an area that will grow in the future. There are two challenges: higher education and research must come out of this, and renewable investment must follow up the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e434	This interpellant debate in itself has many interesting, relevant themes, not least thoughts about international political bodies capable of matching the international global economy. Regardless of the weaknesses of today's system, I would say that we are far better rusted, thanks to these international organizations, than we were, for example, in the mid-war period – then the consequences became dramatic. For those who are particularly interested in this, and not least in the relationship Norway has with the perhaps most important organisation around us — the EU: there will be a debate on Norway’s relations, on how this works in practice, later this week in the main hall. So it takes more than just those who are particularly interested, to get involved there. What I want to address in this debate is the claims of the representative, Jan Tore Sanner, about taxes in the very interpellation. There he claims that the government is increasing the taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises in 2009. That's not true. Tax policy has been an important tool for the red-green government to meet our objective of fairer distribution. We canceled the fiscal policy when we won the election in 2005, and we reduced the level at the 2004 level. We've kept that level since then. It has given billions more to well-being and community, and it has made our tax system fairer. For me, the changes in the property tax and inheritance tax in the 2009 budget seem to be what Right-wing criticisms. In the case of property taxes – and that should not be the case – we took more action. First, we increased the deduction to NOK 470,000 per year. person. That means there are 110 000 more people who are not paying taxes on wealth. Since Bondevik II left in 2005, the bottomline has thus tripled for single and fivefold for married couples. 30 pst. property taxes paid by the population at the time are 20 pst. That's what I'm doing today. Nearly 400000 individuals have been exempted from property taxes. Furthermore, the Stortinget adopted a new and fairer valuation of commercial property. These changes we have now made, make the valuation of commercial property much better harmonised, unified and fair. We have changed the inheritance tax, and we have closed the tax gap. The money is used for relief that everyone can enjoy. In addition, we gave extra tax credits for $1.4 billion. This means that between 90 and 95 pst. by all taxable persons, the inheritance tax is now lower than last year, while a small, wealthy minority is subject to a higher levy. So the government's proposals and the decision of the Grand Duchy have made it easier for the large majority, while some with great fortunes lose the ability to adapt which they have had. We think that's good. Overall, these changes strengthen the redistribution and contribute to the Community's ability to pay more tax. All with gross income below NOK 750000 receive, on average, low or unchanged taxes. Persons with gross income between NOK 750000 and NOK 1000000 receive a small increase. Those with gross income over 1 million. kr gets a marked sharpening. When we see the government period as a whole, the distribution effects of the government's policy are good. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that, over the period 2006-2009, relief has been provided at the bottom and significant restrictions have been imposed on the rich. The right is so critical of, clearly shows that the right is a party that will give priority to the most prosperous, not to most people. What I'm referring to here is, to a large extent, system transformations. Earlier today, at a press conference, the Right launched its tax relief scheme. by reverseing the increase in the inheritance tax and property tax decided on last harvest. Then it's going to be like, "What does that mean?" What it means to reverse all the changes, or some changes, is very unclear. Do you have to reverse the changes for the companies that got relief too, or is it just for someone – and in what way? Does the changes in taxes on wealth help those who become unemployed? The representative Fleet said that that's exactly the point – to make changes to make sure and make it better for those who are unemployed. I don't believe it, because the Right is talking about tax relief in rising times, and they're talking about it in downtime, whether it's the right medicine or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e462	In the morning hours today I had a conversation with a lady who for 20 years has been running a business with about 20 employees. She said, "We've always done ourselves, we've always done well – now I don't know any more." The uncertainty she expresses in relation to her workplace, employees and company is an uncertainty that I do not find among the red-green politicians – especially the head of the Finance Committee. But Marianne Aasen is also acting with a degree of security in relation to the government’s policy — a security that is definitely not heard in the small and medium-sized enterprises. When you are out in small and medium-sized enterprises, you first encounter uncertainty and fear. When companies show uncertainty and fear, there is a bad sign for employees in enterprises. Therefore, I believe it is necessary that we show a somewhat greater degree of humility in relation to the challenges they face. The representative Sandal hits his chest and says that the Nordic welfare model shows that the Workers' Party is always right. Now it is not that the Nordic welfare model is the work of the Workers' Party alone. It is, in fact, a common asset for all the Nordic countries – with varying governments, both red and blue. I believe that all the Nordic parties have reason to be proud that the Nordic model has been a success. So in terms of the interest rate level, it's clear that you can hope that you're going to get even lower interest rates, but I hope it's not going to be zero. I mean, it'll be very unfortunate if we get an interest rate approaching zero. Now, what we're seeing is that private households are going to borrow pretty much like before, but according to the reports that are now coming, they're going to tighten up on the companies in the second quarter. It's bad news, and it's bad news when it comes to the top of an uncertain period. That is why we believe that new measures are needed, not to make the rich rich richer. When we lower taxes, it's because it's going to pay off to work, pay off to save, pay off to invest. It's not about making the rich richer, but it's about making society richer. It is good, conservative virtues and values that I believe it is important that we support. When I realized that the Government has increased taxes and taxes by NOK 11 billion, it's compared to the Centre-Right Government's last budget, and that's the net sum, that goes on all the increases you've proposed, minus the reductions that have been implemented. It is correct that the right has not presented all the proposals in this package. We believe that there is a need for further action in the environment, as we have suggested earlier, to motivate more renewable energy, both through green certificates and through special depreciation rules, but we also need a faster replacement of the car fleet by phasing out the old polluting cars and bringing in new, more environmentally friendly cars – as an example.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e479	First I have to say that the sloping security that the representative Sanner is trying to impose on parts of the red-greens, I do not remember from the debate that has been here today, because there is a great deal of uncertainty. We have always stressed that there is considerable uncertainty. That's what makes it so demanding to deal with such a crisis as this, that no one in our generation has ever dealt with before. That is what has made it difficult to take proper action at the right time. I think we've taken the right steps in terms of what's been the challenges, but we have to be open so that there can be other issues that we don't oversee today, and be in place. The situation with regard to the education sector and other types of training measures is one of the things we mentioned in the action package. But as we said, we think we'll see better what kind of situation we're really going to deal with, when the time limit for coordinated admission, April 15th, is over. It is true, as the representative Sponheim says, that there has been a sharp increase in applications for studies. In teacher training, the increase has been 35 pst. Generally, it's over 10 pst. There is also a clear indication of what it looks like on the labour market, that many young people have now found the time to perhaps realize the educational dream they have had for a long time. An unsafe labour market causes them to apply to educational institutions. How we will meet it as best we can is a question that is the subject of the revised national budget. At the same time, many groups are not taken by higher education and the university sector. There may be in-house training, and there may be other ways of implementing labour market measures, where we also need to be constantly in the process of making good proposals, so that people who are now temporarily affected by unemployment or leavencies can use that time to fill up their skills. So to the tax debate: if you put similarities between taxing wealth and taxing industries or business, I disagree with it. I believe that the steps we have taken to redeploy property taxes and inheritance taxes are at the best for business in a crisis situation, not just because many small businesses have actually directly earned it in dollars and cents, for example. Because of the changes we have made to the inheritance tax, but also because some of the things that have hindered powerful action in many other countries is a screaming unfair distribution policy, and there are bonus systems. Many individuals have seen that someone on top has cheated away. Therefore, fair distribution is an important part of crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e492	So the debate is on case No. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e498	The size should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e505	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e537	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in the follow-up to the suspension of the Audit Board to assess the appropriateness of simplifying the regulation for small foundations, including audit obligations, transmission obligations and differentiated delay fees.’ The Progress Party has already given its subsidiary support to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e563	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-04.ana.ud1764e619	This means that today's maps are ready. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
