ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e105	Representatives Anne Marit Bjørnflaten and Trine Skei Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Jan Fredrik Vogt, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Saera Khan from 12 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Kjell Erik Øie, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e134	Kjell Erik Øie is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e140	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen, Solveig Horne and Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen, Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen are considered unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e153	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended in such a way that, at the end of the Grand Summit, a minutes meeting will be held at Odelstinget. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e165	We will soon be halfway through in a year of fate, when, on the international agenda, there are really only two dishes: financial crisis and climate crisis. All indications indicate that climate change is much faster than we have thought, but nevertheless, the economic crisis has faced world leaders with other and very acute challenges. What gives hope is that the EU does not push the climate problem aside, but through its climate packages insists that crisis policies also meet climate objectives. It is also hoped that the deployment of President Obama in January will give a whole new impetus to American climate policy, and it will give hope that the United States will be the positive force in the climate work that the world so badly needs. In seven months' time, the world's focus is on Copenhagen, where we hope to round this year with the signature of a new and ambitious climate agreement. Time is definitely out for those who have thought that man-made climate change was a scientific misunderstanding, or, worse still, an order from scientific nodules. Just since the climate agreement was signed last January, the research has shown that the situation is even more serious than we thought. A major research conference in Copenhagen in March summarized recent research from the time following the fourth main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Researchers have produced alarming results indicating that climate change is occurring more rapidly than the Climate Panel estimated in 2007, including the following: greater heating and sea level rise. The debate in the world today is just one: what do we do with this gigantic problem that humanity is facing? The Arctic temperature rises two to three times faster than the global average. In a century it has increased by an average of 2 °C. It's one of several signs that should worry us. The sea ice has retreated significantly over the last decades and has become significantly thinner. Breathe's shrinking. Most places melt and disappear snow cover earlier in spring than before. Changes in climate and icy conditions already affect animal life and the ability of indigenous peoples to carry out traditional hunting and fishing in many areas. Also in Antarctica, there has been a significant increase in temperature in the last 50 years. The researchers updated me on this when we gathered many of the world's Environment Ministers in Antarctica at the Norwegian Troll Station in February. In April, it was reported that an ice cap of the size of Jamaica broke loose from Wilkinsbreen in West Antarctic – or to take a Norwegian comparison: an ice cap as large as Eastfold, Westfold and Akerhus combined broke loose and floated into the sea. But more serious, at least in the short term, than the meltdown in the Arctic and Antarctica is the meltdown of the great bridges that supply China and India with water. The ice massives in Himalayas have a coverage for perhaps 1.3 billion people. A river that Ganges will go over to become an interim river if it is no longer supplied by the Breer, but is just a monsoon river – with enormous consequences for agriculture and for the many people living around the Ganges. Similarly, many of the other major rivers in Asia apply. The sea has absorbed more than half of the increased emissions of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. This has long been a buffer against climate change. At the same time, this has caused the sea to become significantly more acidic, which can have dramatic consequences for the marine environment and life in the ocean. At the same time, we also see that the warming that has taken place in the sea means that the sea is now absorbing less CO2 than before – thus weakening the carbon cycle. Climate change will lead to more droughts where it is already dry. Dryers will, among other things, could provide more forest fires, such as the catastrophic fires we saw in Australia earlier this year. With desertification in Africa, agricultural production is expected to fall by over 30 p.m. Elsewhere, increased water and rainfall will create problems in the form of floods, cyclones and devastating storms. This can only be a short impression of the dramatic changes the globe is facing. But let me also add that climate change is an increasing threat to natural diversity. Up to 30 pst. the earth's species are at risk of extinction if the temperature increases by between 1,5° and 2,5°. Let's remind ourselves that we're now on track that will provide a much higher heating than this. To translate it into Norwegian: the mountain is part of the Norwegian folkeschela. The wild rain is a species that could get worse living conditions. Warmer and humid climates in the summer will make cleanness more affected by diseases and parasites, and milder winters will give more ice making it more difficult for the cleaners to obtain food. Birds of prey may be threatened when climate change directly affects their food barrels through increased fluctuations in the small rodent population. But also when we look out over the coast – and Norway has a lot of coast – we have already seen a lot of dead sugar tars. This is probably due to a combination of sea heating — it is about a species that is fully specialised in specific temperatures — and local impact of sludge and run-off. The combination of this is a death threat to the sugar tar. We see a lot of the same thing about the coral reefs. Acidification of the seas is a strong threat to the coral reefs, and at the top of it comes local stress that we in various ways put on them. That was also one of the reasons why the coral reefs were given such a central place, along with the tere forest, in the management plan for the Norwegian Sea, which we just presented. Losses of species are serious in themselves, but there is also a clear sign of a deterioration of ecosystems, of the very basis of human life and well-being. At the same time, conservation of natural diversity is part of the solution to climate challenges. Wetlands provide flood protection. Mangroves and coral reefs provide coastal protection. Natural vegetation holds soil masses and prevents race. Wide genetic diversity provides protection for food production and the basis for adaptation to a changed environment through natural selection. Exploitation of natural defence services is the best form of protection against climate change and, in the long term, the cheapest. Therefore, sustainable ecosystem management needs to be strengthened to ensure that ecosystems are provided with the best possible buffer capacity and time to adapt to changing environmental conditions. Short-term returns in the form of different interventions must be weighed against the needs of the future. In addition, the same applies to almost all natural diversity measures as for climate action: it costs far less to implement the necessary measures now than to pay for the consequences later. We believe it is important to strengthen the interaction between the three Rio conventions on climate, biodiversity and desertification. Well-functioning ecosystems are the very basis for survival on this globe. Let me summarize what I have said to now: the planet Tellus will survive even with drastic climate change, but drastic climate change is a very serious threat to plant and animal life and potentially a deadly threat to humans on earth. The crisis that started with a collapse in the US financial market has now spread to almost the whole world. Millions of people have lost their jobs. In Norway, too, many have had a daily life of uncertainty. The government, together with the governments of other countries, is facing a huge task: to limit the adverse effects of the crisis and get the economy back on track – back on track, but not back on track. It must not be that when the growth gets hold of again, everything is at the old. Crisis policy can and should have a green profile on all the issues we address. The government has shown this with the package of measures we presented in January. Then we added a lot of money to improve energy efficiency in construction, to railways, to charging stations for electric cars, and to walking and cycling routes. We must have as a leader in the new green crisis policy the generation of politicians led by Franklin D. Roosevelt, who transformed the crisis of the 1930s into a new gigantic opportunity, and who, out of that crisis, created a new social capitalism with retirement, market intervention, welfare states, etc. The same thing we have to do now: through the crisis, transform society into a greener economy. I agree with Swiss author Max Frisch who once said: «Crise is a productive state. The financial crisis has shown that governments around the world can act with determination and power – if they want to. Climate change will cause greater and more long-term damage than the financial crisis. The Stern report has not changed. It is much cheaper for the world to cut emissions now than to push problems ahead and wait and then bear the costs of future climate change. What makes climate change difficult to deal with is that it affects unfairly. They are justifiable across generations and across borders. The biggest problems are affecting the poorest countries, while they are historically created by the rich world. And they hit here and now. In all contact with Chinese and Indian leaders, they just say: Don't come and tell us about climate change. Climate change is a greater threat to India because it is for Europe, it is a greater threat to China than it is to North America. We're together in this, we just have to have a fair international agreement. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has recently adopted a special report on disasters and extreme weather on a proposal from Norway. Catastrophes and extreme weather will be a greater problem for countries other than Norway, but it will also be able to hit our country. This report will contribute to knowledge, inter alia: on the prevention of the consequences of extreme weather. In Norway, the Government has presented this spring both a development communication and a Communication on Norwegian foreign policy, both setting the climate as a key element on the agenda – both in development policy and in foreign policy. The context of our policies is highlighted here. We show how the climate challenges are fundamental in development policy, and how climate and energy policy interests are included as a crucial part of Norwegian foreign policy. Some continue to criticise the Government for using aid for climate action. I totally disagree with this criticism. If we do not resolve the climate crisis, it will over time greatly strengthen the world's poverty problems, to such an extent that they become insurmountable. If we do not make significant progress in solving the world’s poverty problems, very many developing countries will neither be able nor would be able to participate in an internationally committed climate change. – Sorry about the voice, President, I've been acting on something. I haven't been to Mexico, and I haven't hugged anyone who came from Mexico, as Barack Obama obviously talked about here by day! The world is facing a special challenge this year. After major drama in Bali in 2007, agreement was reached on the road map leading to Copenhagen and the climate summit in December. The main goal of the government for the Copenhagen meeting is agreement on an ambitious global climate agreement, a real breakthrough in the climate struggle. But this is difficult, because since 1970 the world has seen a huge increase in energy production and transport. Global emissions have increased by a total of 70 pst. from 1970 to now, and emissions continue to increase rapidly. This is in very sharp contrast to the reductions we know to avoid the most devastating climate impacts. Global emissions should not increase but, on the contrary, should be reduced by 50–85 pst. by 2050. That means that the growth has to stop, we have to have a reduction, and the emission curves have to turn around in very few years. Such a reduction would require a technological revolution. This is a revolution that industrialised countries must lead, but it also requires the contribution of the major developing countries. Industrialised countries with only 20 pst. of the world’s population, accounts for almost half the world’s emissions, but the contribution of developing countries will increase in the years to come as a result of a combination of economic growth and population growth. Most of the global emissions growth in the coming years, up to 2030, is expected in developing countries. In order to achieve the necessary reductions in developing countries' emissions, developed countries must be willing to raise substantial new funding, while developing countries themselves must contribute on the basis of their assumptions. Developing countries need to be given room for economic growth in order to reduce poverty, inter alia. by providing electricity to a much larger proportion of the world's population based on climate-friendly technologies. It is great that electricity is renewable and that it is e.g. comes from solar cells. I was just visiting Rampura, a village in India, where the Norwegian company Scatec Solar electrified the village using solar cells. It is a project that India and Norway jointly, privately and publicly will try to roll out in many more villages with the aim that it could be a wide range of Indian villages to become solar-based – a good and simple example of something many others also contribute to. The EU and Norway have proposed clear and ambitious reduction targets for themselves and estimates of the necessary emission reductions for developed countries combined. But many industrialised countries still sit on the fence. For developing countries, this unfortunately confirms a lack of will and action. Large developing countries do not want to assume binding emission obligations, and at least not until they see what the richest industrialised countries are putting on the table. I spoke earlier this year with Obama's most central advisors in climate policy, and I feel confident that the United States will play a leading role towards the Copenhagen meeting. We saw a good example of the enormous role and importance of the United States when the world's Environment Ministers met in Nairobi in February. Until that meeting, there had been a clear no from all over the world to impose a global ban on mercury. Norway had taken it up. We got the EU, and then we got Africa, but everyone said, don't bring it up here. Then the U.S. turned around. The American negotiators smiled 360 degrees around their heads when they were finally allowed to present what they themselves meant, and not what Bush meant. And in one moment, the whole world's situation with regard to mercury was changed. One reason for this was of course that you could no longer hide in the shadow of the previous president of the United States. That shadow was wide. There were a lot of countries hiding in it. There were also Norwegian politicians hiding in that shadow. But that shadow is no longer present, and it is no longer possible to hide behind the United States for those who will not move in the climate. Climate is more difficult than mercury, but this demonstrates the key role of the United States. China and the United States, the two clearly largest emitters with no obligations, have the key to results in Copenhagen. The relationship between China and the United States in climate policy is complicated, but the interaction between them, as some call G2, will be central to the final outcome. It was therefore a very good sign that Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton put the financial crisis and climate at the top of the agenda during his visit to China this year, and got a good dialogue on these very key issues. Other developing countries are also important. Countries with a strong voice in the negotiations are countries like South Africa, Brazil and India as well as China. Norway is working for an ambitious new global climate agreement which assumes that the global average temperature should not increase by more than 2 °C from pre-industrial levels. It is absolutely necessary to stress that even if we were to achieve what appears to be an ambitious goal in the negotiations, it would have very dramatic consequences. In already flooded areas like Bangladesh, to take that country as an example, it will go from bad to worse. Two degrees will mean that large areas will be flooded. At as little as 50 cm of sea level rise – which is significantly less than what we fear will come – more than 17 million people will have to evacuate. When we look at ourselves, Norway will also have to face significantly more rainfall, although we are likely to be more fortunate out of climate change than many other countries. The two-degree objective requires an international climate regime that, as a whole, is much more ambitious than the present regime that is far from being achieved by reality. The climate regime must be based on it at all times, not on what we can do and what we want to do, but on what we have to do – based on the total sum of the world's best scientists. All countries and sectors must be subject to a new agreement with effective compliance mechanisms. For developed countries, numerical targets need to be set, as Norway and the EU have done. Developing countries with high and rapidly growing emissions must take their responsibility by undertaking to facilitate a significant reduction in the expected growth of their own emissions. The track we're in now will lead to four to five degrees of temperature rise during the century we're already well inside, with totally unimaginable consequences for humanity. That's why we have to turn around. The two-degree goal is central, although it is going to be difficult to achieve. In order to achieve such emission reductions, a global incentive structure must be established in which emission reductions pay off financially. The most important of these is to establish an international price of CO2 through a global carbon market. Existing climate technologies must be put into full use. The analyses for, inter alia: The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency show that we need to focus on both increasing energy efficiency with available technologies, increasing renewable energy production and new technologies in this area, while at the same time introducing completely new technologies. Such a new technology is carbon capture and storage. Carbon capture and storage for power generation is important to meet Norway’s own future emission obligations. The aim of the technology we are developing in this area is to contribute to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions outside Norway. What started as a Norwegian national compromise has gained a global significance for which there is a great deal of interest. But the costs of this technology today are too high. Too much energy is used to separate carbon, possibly to store it so that we are able to create a commercial market for carbon capture and storage. That's the situation now, but we're working hard to solve this. Therefore, we strongly focus on technology across the whole technology chain in terms of CO2 management – from research and development to the construction of full-scale sewage treatment plants. Norway has leading research environments and will therefore invest heavily in research and development programmes in order to secure appropriations for this work. To illustrate Norway’s progress, I would like to stress that Sintef will lead the EU’s most recent research project on CO2 management in coal and gas power plants, a project with 14 partners from eight countries. And while CO2 capture from gas production is important, it is clear that the global importance lies most in achieving this for coal. We build a European Technology Centre on Mongstad to develop, test and qualify new technologies for the capture of CO2 from flue gas. This technology centre will contribute to extensive learning, which will have international significance for future installations. Norway, as one of the few countries, also has the opportunity to take the first important step towards full scale. A full-scale capture installation of CO2 from power generation has never been built before anywhere in the world. There is no doubt that this is both costly and technologically demanding. We are still going to do this at Mongstad! The project, together with the technology centre, will lead to extensive technology development. Here, of course, we await fruitful cooperation with EU countries, the United States, Australia and others planning parallel races – in competition, but also in fruitful scientific cooperation. Also at Kårstø, the State has committed itself to putting CO2 management in place. When the gas power plant there goes too far — as it only sometimes does — it is one of Norway's highest point emissions. Here a sewage treatment plant will provide important experience for subsequent processes. In addition, a large point emission is achieved. Internationally, there has been a long debate on the safety of CO2 storage. Norway has had a driving role in putting in place a good code for environmentally safe geological storage, including: through marine environmental conventions, for which the Ministry of Environment is responsible. The EU has now reached agreement on a new storage directive, which is based on legislation developed under marine environmental conventions and which otherwise reflects the existing offshore activity legislation in a good way. This legislation will be implemented in Norway. Let me add that to disseminate knowledge about CO2 management and to discuss both technology implementation and storage security, the Prime Minister invites a high-level conference in Bergen at the end of the month, which will help put the issue further on the global agenda. Norway is working for a new global climate regime to include emissions from both international shipping and aviation. Greenhouse gas emissions from international transport are growing rapidly. There are figures that could indicate that the emissions of Norwegian ships in different registers in size correspond to almost all other emissions from Norway — it illustrates the size conditions here. In any case, there are large emissions from Norwegian ships. But we're working well with the shipping industry to try to do something about this. Globally, international navigation constitutes 2-3 pst. of the total greenhouse gas emissions. Norway has now submitted proposals on how to include the ship sector in a new global climate regime. It's an area where we're being listened to since we're a large and modern shipping nation. The Norwegian proposal implies the setting of an emission target for the ship sector and the development of instruments by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to achieve such an objective. Once it said, "Our glory and our power have brought us white sails." My hope is that honor and power will come from the same industriousness and boldness – applied to the environmental challenges. Our fleet should be the 'whitest' in the world in an environmental sense. The polar regions are another area where Norway has a special responsibility. Roald Amundsen was the first in the South Pole, in 1911, and he also became the first to reach the North Pole, in 1926. While Amundsen reached the North Pole with the ‘Norway’ airship, Børge Ousland and Erling Kagge used pulk and ski when they reached the pole point in 1990. Fear now is that future polarisers to the North Pole will have to use the boat. A few weeks ago, Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr invited Nobel Prize winner Al Gore to a Ministerial Conference in Tromsø on Ice Melting. The focus here was on the relationship between the melting of ice in the Arctic and Antarctica and the global meltdown of breezes, not least with emphasis on the Himalayas plateau, but also on the Andes mountains and elsewhere. An international expert group was set up to report on ice melting globally. Let me mention that my Swedish colleague, Development Minister Gunilla Carlsson of the Swedish Right Party, came back from just the Andes Mountains, completely shocked at what she had seen from the melting down of the bridges in Bolivia – and what that means for the ecosystems around. The report of the Tromsø meeting contains the most up-to-date knowledge of these dramatic impacts of climate change and will be presented at the Copenhagen Conference with a message of strongly reinforced efforts to reduce global climate emissions. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will also come to Norway in the turn of the month of August/September to take an eye-catching view of the melting of the Arctic polar ice. 17 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions are due to deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries. The Government’s climate and forest initiative was launched by the Prime Minister of Bali in December 2007 and has as its central objective the inclusion of forest emissions in developing countries in a new international climate regime. Norway is actively working to make emissions from these sources part of the new climate regime after 2012. That is why Jens Stoltenberg, at Bali, promised in 2007 that Norway is ready to step up efforts to combat climate change emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries to up to DKK 3 billion a year. Action against emissions from deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries is among the fastest and most cost-effective we can put in. But let's not have any illusions that they're among the simplest. Strong driving forces contribute to deforestation. It is all from the individual farmer’s desire to support his family by growing soya or making money on meat production to strong driving forces in world market demand for paper – hoards and trade in tropical timber – for palm oil plantations and for the needs of the local population for arable land, wood and timber. It is a set of different reasons for deforestation. We just have to find mechanisms that ensure that it becomes more profitable for both farmers, companies and states to preserve the forest and exploit it rationally than to cut it down. We need to reconcile the emissions from deforestation with the development policy objective of contributing to poverty reduction. The challenge in many of the co-operation countries is great. Some of them have a major corruption problem, others have poor governance more generally and in others there is little understanding of forest measures as a new type of development cooperation. But we also meet a number of countries that have themselves taken initiatives in this area. Let me mention the very poor, and the population small, Papua New Guinea, who has really been a driving force in putting this on the global agenda. A number of countries in Latin America have also taken the lead in this area. These are countries that are willing to discuss far-reaching reforms to reverse development, and now the challenge is to get this process in key forest countries, which are well under way, and not least to get more donors involved, so that the amount of funds in Copenhagen will be sufficient to help those who want to help themselves. In order to ensure long-term and real emission reductions, global solutions that prevent ‘leakage’, so that reduced deforestation one place, let’s say on the Indonesian island of Kalimantan, do not lead to increased deforestation on the Indonesian island of Western Irish. This makes no sense, and therefore global regimes must be in place, and national states must take control of their emissions. We need to establish internationally knowledge and trust in the forest surveillance system and their ability to bind carbon. It is the national Member State that has to set the standard for what to do in its own country. Each country needs to develop a plan, and the international community can come in and support that plan. Some of the Norwegian funds finance a new UN programme called UN-REDD. In it, governments in nine tropical countries are currently working together on the design of national strategies for reducing deforestation, but we have a stream of enquiries from important forest countries, Bolivia, to mention one, and others, who are coming to us and want us to do more and in direct cooperation with them, Guyana in South America to mention another. Both non-governmental organisations and indigenous peoples shall be involved in shaping the strategies. Norway is also the largest donor in a similar initiative run by the World Bank, called the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. Through Norwegian pressure and by using the large amount of money that Norway has given for this purpose, we have contributed very effectively to bringing the various UN organisations together, bringing the UN together, with the World Bank in this area. Although it may seem obvious, I must say that bringing the UN organisations together with the World Bank is one of the most difficult tasks in an area like this. In addition, Norway contributes to Congo Basin Forest Fund together with the United Kingdom and others. It is a fund for the protection and sustainable management of the forest areas of the Congo Basin, which is the second largest in the world. We support Brazil's Amazon fund. The Amazon is the largest rain forest in the world. Brazil's Amazon Fund is probably the most developed tool we have right now. It shall finance activities supporting the efforts of the Brazilian authorities to combat deforestation. When the Prime Minister and I were traveling in Brazil last year, we saw ourselves how indigenous people protect the forest most effectively, and that it is possible to find alternative sources of income for logging. In addition to the very good results achieved within the programme itself, the Climate and Forest Initiative also contributes to a high level of positive attention to Norway and positive publicity in almost all international environmental circles, and it has helped to mark Norway as an environmental policy priority country. The more we get the stamp as a precursor country, the more demands will be made on us to deliver in this area. There are great expectations that are built up. The same applies to our proposal to finance adaptation measures in developing countries. There is a need to provide large sums of money at international level to finance such actions. Several different mechanisms have been proposed to provide money for this purpose, but Norway has benefited from a lot of support for its funding proposal, which, together with the Mexico proposal, has presented, are the two proposals that are now being discussed in the context of international climate negotiations. Norway has proposed that a few percentage points, e.g. 2 pst. of allowances under the UNFCCC are auctioned internationally and that this money is used for financing. This will mean that countries with emission obligations in a future climate agreement, the rich developed countries, will bear the costs. The proposal is innovative and robust because it provides funds independently of ordinary budgetary procedures in each country. We feel that the proposal is constantly meeting growing interest among other countries, particularly among developing countries. The European Commission has also proposed this Norwegian proposal as one of two possible funding mechanisms in a new agreement. I had a good discussion of this proposal with the EU Environment Minister in Prague a few weeks ago, and, in a number of other contexts, with EU leaders. We are actively continuing to disseminate knowledge and seek support for the proposal. To illustrate the interest in the proposal, I can mention that I am invited, I believe as the only non-African, to the African Union Environment Ministerial Meeting in 14 days. The main point is to explain the Norwegian Forest Initiative and the Norwegian funding proposal at this meeting in Nairobi. In particular, the Norwegian proposal aims to raise funds for adaptation and capacity building in developing countries. It will also be able to raise funds to reduce emissions, such as: financing technology development and early reductions in emissions from deforestation in developing countries. At the end of the day, the most difficult issue with a view to reaching an agreement in Copenhagen is the lack of confidence between developed countries and developing countries, which continues to shape the climate negotiations – although the environment in the climate negotiations has changed dramatically since Barack Obama became president of the United States. Some of this disagreement can be attributed to negotiating tactics, but there is little doubt that it will be very demanding to reach agreement on an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen. That's why the world's top leaders, presidents and prime ministers, need to get into the picture more than ever before. They have to engage in climate negotiations. They must take the lead in the many events that will take place from now until the Copenhagen meeting. There must be political boldness. The Nordic region has a key role through Denmark, which is host to the Copenhagen Summit, Sweden, which has the Presidency of the EU in the period of the Copenhagen Summit, and Norway, which is driving in various areas where we can be more marked than Denmark can be as a host, and Sweden can be as a consensus driver in the EU. Overall, I think the Nordic countries, through very close contact, can be of much greater importance than otherwise. A number of meetings will be held at Heads of State or Ministerial level to contribute to political pressure and governance towards the Copenhagen meeting. You don't need much fortune-telling to say that it's not in the negotiations themselves that all the solutions will be found, but when they're raised to a political top level. The members of the government use every opportunity to address climate negotiations in political talks, whether it be the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, myself or other members of the government. The aim is to communicate and get an impact on Norwegian views, and to gain a greater understanding and knowledge of the views and expectations of other countries. Norway is also trying to focus on the relationship between trade policy and climate action. It is of great importance that the legislation of the World Trade Organisation and the forthcoming climate regime will function in a mutually supportive way, so that we address the risks of both social dumping, or environmental dumping, for which some are concerned, but at the same time do not go into protectionism, for which other countries are concerned. There is a lot of explosives here, and it is important that there are balanced compromises in the negotiation process. The climate agreement meant a shift in the pace of Norwegian climate policy. I will praise the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for both the dialogue we had, and the final result. Cross-political cooperation as such lays a solid foundation for a tough and ambitious climate policy course. I already want to invite the settlement partners to talks with a view to reaching an agreement on a climate settlement II as a follow-up to the 2010 report to the Stortinget on climate policy. This reporting will be based on the work of State pollution control at the end of this year. In this, there is a desire from the Government to remain a broad anchor of climate policy. Randolph Churchill, Sir Winston Churchill's father, once said that it is an opposition's duty to oppose. That's right, but at the same time it's also an opposition's duty to contribute to the best results for the country, and it did the opposition in the climate deal. We are now in the process of doing what we have to do together across the usual political divider lines, and I want to give tribute to the opposition so that in the climate settlement discussion they did not spend all the time opposing, but rather used a lot of effort to make the climate settlement as ambitious as possible. I hope we can continue to push each other's climate ambitions in the right direction both before and after the election. We agreed on measures that can actually move international climate work and motivate efforts relatively quickly. The climate and forest initiative, as I have just mentioned, is the foremost example of something that has been emphasizing Norway through the climate agreement on the global agenda and moving this area faster than perhaps any other area in front of the Copenhagen meeting. It is also important that Norway, as a rich industrialised country, demonstrate in the international climate negotiations a clear willingness to go ahead and reduce its own emissions. This has been an indispensable requirement of the developing countries throughout the year in the negotiations. During the examination of the climate agreement, it was agreed that in 2020 Norway would cut global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions. It was considered realistic in the climate agreement to reduce emissions in Norway by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent compared to the reference path as presented in the 2007 national budget when forests are included. I'm not going to conceal that this is a demanding and ambitious goal. We knew when we made the agreement that there was already a significant growth in emissions by 2020. The engine of this growth is increased prosperity. We buy car number two, we buy more and new things for the home, and we travel more. In addition, oil and gas production has given rise to significant emissions growth since 1990. All arrows, both in Norway and internationally, point towards increased emissions, and that is this trend we are going to reverse with the climate agreement. It is not easy in Norway, and it is even more difficult internationally. Of course, the government is striving to follow up all the points in the climate agreement: We have changed the charging system so that cars with low CO2 emissions are cheaper, and higher emissions cars are becoming more expensive. We have doubled the reward scheme for public transport. We've increased investments in the railways. We have tripled the efforts related to renewable energy research. This year, we spend almost NOK 2.6 billion on energy efficiency improvement, renewable heat production and wind power development. This is more than three times as much as Enova had in 2005 when the red-green government gained power. We will prohibit the installation of oil boilers in new buildings and major conversions from 1 January 2010. We're working hard to get completely into terms with other points in the equation. In the climate agreement, the Government agreed with the opposition to resume discussions with Sweden on a single market for electricity certificates, so-called green certificates. The ambition is to put in place the key principles for the design of the market by 1 October this year. However, we see evidence that even a good follow-up to the climate agreement is not enough to achieve the necessary emission reductions in 2020. The government is therefore constantly working on the development of climate policy. Let me mention three specific areas. Firstly, the mainland industry. About half of the industry is still not covered by measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This violates the polluter-pays principle and leads to the need for other parts of society to bear a greater share of the cost of reducing emissions. At the same time, it is necessary to be aware that many of these companies compete on a global market, and that they can rarely turn increased emissions costs over to customers. An agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and industry can be a good way to reduce these emissions. Later today, I will have a first meeting with the Norwegian Industry in order to reach such an agreement, which may hopefully start to apply from 1 January 2010. Second, the municipal sector. The government feels that very many municipalities are eager to contribute to a national climate change. The Ministry of the Environment is therefore now sending out to the consultation a State planning guideline for climate and energy planning in municipalities and county municipalities. It is important that municipalities set ambitious emission targets and identify concrete environmental measures, which they undertake to implement. This is how we can trigger emission reductions and contribute to environmentally friendly energy conversion in municipalities. Thirdly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food provides a big message on agriculture’s climate challenges before the summer. It has been suggested that the Communication discuss measures and instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from agriculture and also mention the potential for increased CO2 absorption and carbon binding in forests and soil. The impact of climate change on agriculture with adaptation measures is also an important topic here in Norway. Such measures aimed at individual sectors, at agriculture, at the municipal sector and at the non-taxable industry are important, but it is essential that we also have a solid foundation in place in our instrument. The quota system is this base wall. We have recently put the quota system in place for the 2008-2012 period. After a round of adjustments, the Government has managed to maintain a system that is the most ambitious in Europe. Norway issues few allowances in relation to its expected emissions. In doing so, Norway contributes to ensuring the demand for allowances in the EU ETS. The EU has now finally adopted the revised ETS Directive which establishes a strengthened and expanded ETS for the period 2013-2020. Norway is part of the EU quota system today, and it will be important for the achievement of Norwegian climate targets and for Norwegian industry that Norway is also part of the EU quota system during the next quota period. At the same time, Norway wishes to be able to influence the EU system in the direction of maximum climate impact. The government will therefore work to this end by pursuing an active policy towards the EU when the allowance system is to be implemented in detail. In the climate agreement, we decided to overfill the Kyoto commitments by 10 percentage points. We want to achieve this goal through government purchases of allowances. 10 percentage points may not sound that much, but in practice it means that we contribute to emissions cuts in other countries corresponding to half of our own emissions from cars, buses and trailers. The government is concerned that in our purchases of climate allowances, there is a broad portfolio added. This includes, inter alia: that we want a significant element of projects from LDCs. However, it is not possible to set absolute targets for the purchase of allowances, for example: in the form of buying allowances from only one region or technology, since the offer of allowances of most types of stake is limited. Let me also say that the so-called green development mechanism or quota system for developing countries is a system in its initial phase, not a fully developed system. There is more to compare with children who have to grow up and who need to be further developed. The Norwegian Veritas have made important proposals in this area since they have 50 pst. by the market for the approval of those allowances. So there's room for significant improvements. Norway is strongly involved in the debate on this international issue. But the quota system is a very important base wall that needs to be improved. The response to the climate challenge lies both in behavioural change and in new technologies. The two cannot be so easily distinguished: often behavioral change will require that we have developed new technologies. New technology will trigger new behaviour. So we're going to need a technological revolution. I think it'll come. Just think about how fast Internet technology has spread around the world since it was introduced 10–15 years ago. From being a little tool for nerds, mostly in North America, and for people in the university environments at that time, it went to become an all-rounder across the globe over the course of 12-13 years. Wherever there is a middle class, the Internet is available today. The same has happened with everything from flat screens to mobile phones – to take modern examples. If you go back in history, the Wright brothers got the first plane in the air. Everyone said that it was impossible, until they did. Then it became possible. When Edison invented the bulb, everyone said it was impossible, until he did. Then it was possible. The potential for technological change is enormous, but requires the right social conditions. Behavioural change and technological change cannot be seen as two separate areas. Transport may be our biggest challenge. The climate target for the transport sector is to cut emissions by 2.5 to 4 million. tonnes in 2020 compared to the reference path. This requires that we limit traffic growth, that we change the car park, and that we ensure that as much goods and people as possible are transported by other means than on the road and by aircraft. We also need technological breakthroughs in the transport sector. Wide bets are important, not just on one specific technology, but on the many improvements – not only improvements to the traditional petrol engine, hydrogen and other potential new fuels, but, of course, above all, the use of electricity for transport purposes. Norway already has some of the very best framework conditions for the purchase of an electric car and also the best conditions for the use of an electric car, for example. through access to collective fields. The development of better batteries, larger cars and better infrastructure will help increase the use of electric cars in the future. Norway has been – and is – leading the electric car market, but we need to move on. I visited Umweltbil Grenland in Porsground a few weeks ago. I was impressed to see an electric car that was not a small car for the niche market, but a large family car where everyone can join, mother and father with three children in the backseat, bike and full luggage room, and still drive over long distances. So the electric cars are coming, and they're coming faster than many think. In a short time, the plug-in hybrid cars, i.e. cars that have an electric motor that can be charged from the socket and that have a traditional engine as well. The government will contribute to infrastructure in the form of charging stations. That's why it's set at 50 million. To this end, in the Government’s January package of measures. We have made changes to the one-off charge, which has reduced the average emissions of new cars by 14 pst. from 2006 to 2009. The objective is to average 120 grams of CO2 per. kilometres in 2012. The government will continue the gradual conversion of the charging system and the use of instruments, so that more energy and environmentally friendly cars strengthen their competitive position. At the same time, we need to ensure that increased electric car use and hybrid vehicle use reduce other car traffic and do not replace bicycles and public transport. In a few minutes, the Minister for Transport will receive a report from a working group chaired by the Landsforening of Energy Enterprises. The report shows the approach taken by the industry to speed up the development and phase-in of electric cars and hybrid plug-in cars in the Norwegian car park. The government will continue to invest in public transport. The national transport plan was submitted to the Stortinget in March. Investments for railway development have doubled compared to the 2006-2015 plan. It is also committed to improving rail interoperability through a bet of NOK 42 billion. In addition, the reward scheme for public transport shall be doubled and be set up on foot and by bicycle routes. Investing in public transport is often not alone enough for people to make use of it. Effective measures, such as cow pricing and parking restrictions, by regional and local authorities will result in a greater transition to collective transport and thus lower greenhouse gas emissions. The government wants second-generation biofuels to be part of a long-term solution to the climate challenges, and not necessarily just to cars, but, for example, to aeroplanes. That is why we have introduced guidelines on how to phase in first-generation biofuels and create the market for second-generation biofuels. This type of biofuel can be based on waste products, wood and straw and creates far less conflicts with food production than current biofuels. A strategy for research and development of second-generation biofuels is being pursued. Let me say that at the moment this is also, in addition to better organisation of air traffic, better landing systems, etc., the most important instrument we have for a more environmentally friendly and greener policy for the aviation industry. In terms of reducing emissions from transport and insofar as other measures are concerned, there are many good examples in business itself. A goal that has impressed me a lot is what the Norway Group has put itself in this field. The Norway Group is Norway's largest food chain. They have set the objective of reducing CO2 emissions per year. own goods with 40 pst. during 2010. This is of the kind of inspiring objectives for the follow-up of other enterprises. I encourage actors in other industries to put themselves in the harness. Let's never forget that the climate noise can't be solved by any instance alone. Only if business, government, political environment and civil society join forces will we find the solutions. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, energy efficiency improvement is the action that has the greatest potential for global emissions reductions. I have recently, perhaps also inspired by the financial crisis, found interesting enough that more and more business leaders and leading companies are coming and want more regulation and are asking for their industry to be better regulated. These are business leaders who want us to premium the best in a business, punishing the worst. I also see that Abelia in the NHO immediately goes out in today's issue of the Evening Post. This is a policy we need more of: regulation of markets to strengthen those who will move forward in the climate field, and punish those who are following. Strengthening energy requirements in an area where new buildings will significantly reduce climate pressures. Energy requirements were reinforced in 2007 and will be revised in technical regulations for new planning and building laws, which will be consulted before the summer. Passive houses are buildings with very low energy consumption, where the heating demand may be reduced by as much as 90 pst. A passive house investment is important to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, we have to make it easy for ordinary people to use less energy in their homes. An energy check for each building will be a first step in implementing concrete efficiency measures. From the new year 2010, i.e. at the beginning of 2010, all build owners are offered a free energy check through a web-based system. Anyone who sells or hires a dwelling will be charged with such an energy check, and they will have to provide an energy certificate at the same time. All large public buildings shall have a visible energy certificate. We will also help to develop a more detailed set-up for voluntary energy checks, such as: may provide a basis for identifying concrete energy efficiency improvement measures adapted to individual constructions. This voluntary scheme will be self-financing. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will present such a proposal if not for long. Let me add that in conversations with American politicians and business leaders, there's one theme they're talking about maybe more than anything else, and that's the term Smartnet. It's an electric grid where you can not only take power out, but where the individual customer can also feed electricity in, for example. from its electric car or from its solar panel, thereby reducing its current bills – i.e. not only extract electricity, but also contributing electricity in. You can get a lot more energy producers in this way. In the long term, Smartnet will enable customers to feed electricity online from a range of sources. There is a great deal of interest in this, and Norwegian energy authorities will follow the development of the Smartnet concept. The oil and gas installations on the socket account for a significant share of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. These emissions can be reduced by increasing the use of new expansions based on electrification or interconnection of power requirements with existing devices. There are currently two projects under development to be supplied with power from land: Valhalla and Gjøa. Snow White and Worm Lange have also partially met the energy demand with power from the grid, as processing takes place on land. Today, the Troll A platform receives power from land. Following the conclusion of the climate agreement, the Government has followed up the requirement to assess power from land in all new developments and major modifications on the base. The Ministry of Oil and Energy will refer to the follow-up of zero-emission power to the petroleum sector in the 2010 budget proposal of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Research and environmental technologies and technological revolution have gone through this presentation as a red thread. It is research and climate monitoring that have shown society that we have a climate problem. Research will also play a central role in the search for solutions. For the Government, further investment in the knowledge environments is very central. The government has already tripled research on renewable energy. Important steps have been taken through the establishment of Energy21 for the energy sector. Now we are working on a broader strengthening of climate research. The government has set up a separate steering group, called Klima21, which I just met, to propose a coherent research and development strategy for climate research for the autumn. 24 April this year, the Government presented a new Research Communication – Climate for Research. It is an objective that Norwegian research policy should contribute to addressing global challenges with a particular focus on climate, energy, seas and food security. New technologies are being developed in the world’s most advanced industrial countries, such as Norway and Europe, North America and Japan, but are also being developed in rapidly growing developed countries, such as China and Brazil. The eco-innovation market is still new and immature, but it is considered to be one of the fastest growing technology markets in the world. The wind energy industry employed 154,000 people in the EU in 2007. Every day 33 new jobs have been created in this sector for the last five years. And the interesting thing is that because of the financial crisis, the idea is that the markets are regulating themselves now, in almost all environments internationally, with a few very few exceptions. It also means that the spirit of regulating markets in order to drive forward this new technology has a completely different global wind in the sails. The Government will develop a national environmental technology strategy that will be broadly anchored in business and in the sphere of competence. A strategic council consisting of business leaders, knowledge environments, the environment and the labour market shall provide ongoing advice on the strategy and contribute to the follow-up of the strategy. Work on the strategy has already made it clear that there is a relatively high need for state support for the commercialisation of environmental technologies, in particular for development and demonstration projects. With the red-green government, Norway has begun running, after many years of climate change. But a lot remains. The government has therefore asked the State pollution control board to chair the Climate Action Group 2020. Climate change should provide the necessary technical basis for the assessment of climate policy and the need for modified instruments to be submitted to the Stortinge in 2010. In the group, central offices such as the Road Directorate, the Oil Directorate, the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate and the Statistical Central Bureau work. I do not know any other country that has organized such extensive work as this. Climate change should assess the extent to which existing instruments are strong enough to meet our national emission targets and assess the need for new or changed instruments. I believe that we must already be prepared for the fact that, in the years to come, it will be necessary to introduce many new instruments that will help cut emissions. The Klimakur report will be handed over to the Ministry of the Environment in November this year. This report will provide a very important basis for the government to report back to the Middle East in the Kyoto period, in 2010 – and, of course, after the Copenhagen Summit. The climate change report, as I see it, will be an important road map up to the target of strong emission reductions. I am sure that the road map will bear the mark of good craftsmanship. But I'm just as sure that even if we get this map, we're going to meet great challenges on the trip. I would like to thank you for this opportunity to review the Government's climate policy. We've begun to fight the climate noise, but the hardest and greatest blows remain. We are in a situation that I think is best described by what Winston Churchill said in the British House of Commons in November 1942, after the Allies win at El Alamein. He said, "This isn't the end." It's not even the beginning at the end. But that might be the end at the beginning. We're not close to getting to the emission reductions that this planet needs. We haven't even started on the road to the low-emission society. But maybe we now see the end of that era when many of the world's top leaders saw another way or put on each other's fence and looked at each other. I honestly and sincerely believe that when we split up in Copenhagen, we can say that this was the end of the beginning, the end of the pause. We've started the global march towards the target. The goal is big, but we're ready to achieve it. Winston Churchill knew at the time what he was talking about. After El Alamein too, disappointments and severe sacrifices followed. They won the Allies. And we also have to win in Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e399	The President will propose that the Minister for the Environment and Development's statement on climate policy be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e413	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e420	The Committee has examined a proposal for a representative from the Progress Party on the necessary legislative changes to allow municipalities to introduce user management with parents on the school user board. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, does not support the proposal. The majority, like the proposers, are committed to ensuring that parents have a good influence on school content, not only through the cooperation committees, but also through organisations such as the European Commission. The parental commission for initial training. Similarly, students are assured of influence over school contents. In order to strengthen that influence, both the FUG – Parent Committee for Initial Training – and the Student Organisation provided additional resources in the context of the 2009 State Budget. It can also be mentioned that the role of parents was clearly defined in the context of a new purpose paragraph for initial training. These interventions do not mean that we are targeting school-home cooperation and parental influence on school content. We want to further develop it, but believe that the right tool is to ensure that today's law-enforced cooperation bodies function even better. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that today’s legislation provides opportunities for local variations of user involvement in school. As far as we have registered, neither has FUG, as the parents' association, required parental numbers to be given in the schools' boards. There is cross-political agreement that the parental dimension is important — yes, very important — to make the school even better. Work needs to be done both locally and from national teams to strengthen it. School owners must be challenged to ensure that the school councils function according to their intentions, and we must take a joint responsibility to further develop the competences of school leaders and teachers on the role of parents in the learning, development and participation of young people in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e431	As the President is aware, it is not uncommon for the proposals of the Progress Party to have been met through history with some strong scepticism. Then a few years goes by, and every time, all or part of the Progress Party adopts political positions in a number of areas. In this way, one with a certain weight may claim that the influence of the Progress Party in Norwegian politics has strengthened over time and strongly influenced Norwegian society. It has always been important for the Progress Party to have a school that takes students seriously, a school that actually contributes to safeguarding the interests of those who use the service provided by the school owner. In this context, parental participation is a very important element and, in today’s structure, it is also possible to make use of the competences of parents in both cooperatives and user boards. However, there is one strict restriction in the training law: Under no circumstances can parents alone or parents, together with the student representatives, have a majority in the user boards. There is an artificial and illogical limitation in the right of school owners to organise the management of their own schools in such a way that the school owner himself believes is most appropriate in order to achieve the best possible quality in his schools. All other parties believe that the school owners – in most cases there are municipalities and county municipalities – do not have the ability to make proper priorities in the management of their own schools in this particular small area. Even parties that I consider to be relatively good friends of the Progress Party believe that it involves too much freedom of choice for school owners to decide the composition of the user boards themselves. It amazes me. In my excellent and forward-looking home municipality Larvik, a very exciting experiment was carried out, where three schools who themselves wanted to try user management with parent numbers. The scheme was implemented in one school year, and it was a thunderous success. All those involved — teachers and principals included — thought the scheme was good, and all schools would continue the scheme after the end of the trial period. Unfortunately, the sitting red government put an active stop to this good primary school development attempt. One of the parents who led the user board said in their time that the assumption that the arrangement was so successful, and that it was a great success, of course, was that the parents really engaged, and that the reason for this real commitment was that they had actual and real influence. That influence is only the Advance Party that the parents think should be able to get, if the school owner so wishes. The contradictions with the proposal are many. Very few of them have some real content if one compares with the evaluation report carried out by the University of Westfold after the experiment. I am disappointed that the parental committee for basic training has turned the proposal into a cold shoulder. FUG should also be on the side of parents when it comes to giving their parents real influence. It is not surprising that the parent exposure fails when FUG is against the parents getting real power. Parents are only concerned with their own children, some claim. That's wrong. Getting parents power, it turns out they're busy making school the best possible for as many people as possible. But as long as their influence is limited to their own children, one cannot expect a much broader commitment. I also believe that the criticism of giving a group majority of user boards is completely flawed. There is no experience background to claim that parents in the User Management Board are consistent or have similar perceptions in all cases. Rather, as a resource, parents will be able to draw on their own competences and learn from others. In this way, you get a good interaction between engaged parents and the professional competence that teachers and principal represent. In short, the party of progress will open up to parents to the power of the school that the school owner will give them. No other party has confidence that the municipalities and county councils are able to do that in a good way, and will therefore maintain a ban on proper parental influence. But as I said initially, the Progress Party is used to showing the way, also in the field of school policy. So in a few years' time, I think we've got what makes up the majority of the representatives in this room. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e452	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e455	I didn't really intend to speak in the debate, but after the tirad of the Progress Party's Anders Anundsen, I can't help but try to give a clearer picture of why Right and also other opposition parties say no to the proposal. First of all, I think it's a heavy argument that the parental committee for basic training says no. It's they who know best how parental influence works, and when they say as clearly no as they do, I think it's a very important argument. In addition, the parent exposure at school today is not limited to children of their own. A lot of parents get involved in school and running the school, have a lot of benefit from it, and it also has a lot of benefit for the students. That's great. But the fundamental reason why we on the Right have chosen to say no to the proposal – a no that should not be confused with a no to parental exposure or involvement on the part of parents, on the contrary – is simply the question of who should ultimately be responsible for child training. We give school owner and school manager, principal in particular, increasing responsibility, a development that I think is right, but the increasing responsibility for child training could be difficult to identify in a situation where children do not get the training they require. Who, then, is responsible? Is it the principal, or is it the parent majority of the user board? I think that there will be many awkward situations and difficult conflicts, simply because it is unclear who should ultimately be responsible for the final responsibility for children who have not received the training they are entitled to. Those stories we're constantly meeting away, children who either don't get special education, children who don't get the adapted education they're entitled to, and in those situations I think it's difficult, if not impossible, to ease the responsibility on the parent majority that's in the user board. On the other hand, it's almost impossible to simplify it to the principal, who doesn't have the last word, but who can be overrun by a parent majority. In most cases, there is good parental participation, and parental participation is done in such a way that there is agreement between teachers, students, principal and parents. But in the most extreme cases, there may be situations of conflict that are difficult to deal with and where responsibilities become unclear. It can't be on the right. On the other hand, we have great confidence that both the school owner and the principal are able to design parental cooperation in a way that is trustworthy and that is good for all parties, and I think it is a special argument on the part of the Progress Party to believe that all the other parties in this room have no confidence either in the school owners or in the school owners or the parents. We do, but we don't want to go as far as the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e466	I'll be brief. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, expressed in an excellent way the principle view that the Left also has. I just took the word to say that I have been walking through schools in Oslo for a few years, that's about. 170 of them -- I've been walking through 107 in this round, in the last few years -- and it's quite obvious how the parental exposure for the whole school is rising. It rises in a structure of operational governance, where no one has a majority alone, and I've been away in many situations where parents, in good cooperation with teachers, say that they take over education, so that teachers can go out into the world somewhere and get well filled up professionally. So we have sparkly good examples that where the sense gets raw locally, there will be good solutions, as the majority of the committee then thinks to be behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e471	Very Card: I don't think we should idyll all the parents meeting held in Norway. There can certainly be great challenges in getting parental cooperation to work better, and I've met many people who experience, what I should say, that it can be difficult to express their views to the school. But I also don't think that the solution is that parents should have multiples in the organs that, among other things. make decisions that are entirely decisive for the training we provide for children and young people. There I think we have to put the responsibility very clearly on the path to the school, and then there are other ways we should work on parenting rather than changing the formal decision-making structures. It is also the case that, for the first time, elephants and parents have at least two members of the Cooperation Committee, so that each municipality can also set up a board of directors, as well as organisations such as the Parental Committee, which ensures influence. So I also do not support the proposal that is being put forward here. On the other hand, I fully support the objective for which there is broad agreement in the committee, namely to ensure even greater parental exposure, and that the school should meet it in an inviting way, because it is a valuable resource for the schools that are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e478	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e481	I'm glad that everyone agrees that parents should have influence, but I'm a little surprised by the angle of individual parties, who now say in a way that it's a problem with the way of control and user boards when it's parents who have a majority – so the decisions can be made in a corresponding user board only the parents don't have a majority. After all, the division of responsibilities between the school owner, the principal and the user directors will be exactly the same within today's model as it will be within the Progress Party model. I therefore cannot quite understand that there should be some fundamental counter-representation of how the division of responsibilities between the different bodies should be. Then it's not right when it's claimed that it's the school that has the primary responsibility for the training. It's really the parents who have it. This is not even compulsory schooling in Norway. If a reader reads the purpose paragraph of the initial training, he will see that the training is to be done in consultation with the parents. We're very concerned that parents will have real power in cases where the municipalities, the schools and the parents themselves want it. The attempt in Larvik has refuted all the counter-representations that have been promoted by the pulpit today, and has shown that parental control creates a real commitment to the parents. It gives good results, and parents, students, teachers and principals are satisfied. I'm disappointed that someone doesn't take into account what's real, and doesn't give the municipalities the opportunity to make decisions that they think are right for their own schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e505	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e512	In the absence of Mr Gunnar Gundersen, I would like to thank him for his cooperation in this matter. In this proposal for a representative, the Party has put forward 18 concrete proposals to strengthen vocational training and to facilitate, in the best possible way, the development of professional status with students with an increased degree of implementation. The proposals are intended to respond to the enormous challenge of non-retirement in higher education, particularly in some of the professions. It was already wrong to introduce Reform 94, the aim of which was, in fact, the harmonisation of different statuses between general and professional subjects. The result has been reversed, and the students in professional studies pay the price. The Progress Party pointed to this possibility already at the time of the adoption of the reform, and unfortunately we were right. It is alarming that the government parties waive responsibility for the non-response problem in the professions and transfer it to the county councils. While the county authorities are responsible for secondary education, the national training frameworks are laid here in the Stortinget, and a much more active focus on vocational education is needed in order to address these challenges. However, the government uses the usual disclaimer formula and indicates that there is always a big message – this time a communication of competence for the future, which ends up in Stortinget too late to be taken up for proper and thorough treatment. The proposals currently under consideration will have an impact quickly and could contribute to solving major challenges. I take note that the government parties do not use this opportunity to do anything concrete either. Nevertheless, there is a bright spot for those batches that are in possession of the government offices today, probably not there in six months. It is an important signal to School-Norway that the Progress Party and the Right in this position are united on 13 concrete proposals for lifting vocational education and training. There are far more proposals than the current government has promoted in this area over the entire four-year period. An overall opposition agrees on 9 concrete proposals to help reduce the drop-out rate and increase the status of professionals. Some suggestions are hard to see why government parties are opposed. In these times of financial crisis, it is strange that government parties will not consider further removing the employer’s fee for apprentices. It is likely that in the autumn there will be major challenges to ensuring adequate apprenticeships because the costs of enterprises are too high in relation to the value added. It is also strange that government parties will not facilitate an increase in the elements of professional convergence in primary school. This will be both informative and motivating for practical pupils. Then there's a couple of things in the setting I want to clarify, because it's claimed from all the parties, and it's somewhat surprising that the claim that the apprentice grant isn't indexed since the introduction of Reform 94 is wrong. It can be read in two ways: index regulation, if it should have any real effect, must actually take place every year. If not, the distance between actual costs and the grant is increased. The point made by the Progress Party is that the indexation has not taken place annually since the introduction of Reform 94, and the distance between grants and costs is now in the range of NOK 25 000. Thus, the fact that index adjustments have been made in some years compared to the previous year does not compensate for the years in which indexation has not occurred. The claims made by the members of the Committee by the Progress Party have therefore been commented on there, and they are correct, but the position has become a little strange and detached from the claim made by the Committee on Incorrect Information. It's now forcefully refuted. I will finally reflect briefly on my expectations of the announced announcement from the Government. I believe, of course, that it contains concrete measures and action plans to strengthen vocational training and to reduce non-response. I hope we don't want to witness again a bellyplate of the research message's format, because there are limits to how much trustworthiness that is left after such a serious bellyplate. It is, I must admit, not pleasant to be a spectator when it is obviously physically painful for the members of the Government to defend the stomach plaque in retrospect, when they stubbornly claim that this was not a gastric plaque, but a new form of stumping. With that, I address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e543	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e546	Vocational training of good quality is and will become important for Norway in the coming years. The evaluation of the Norwegian vocational and vocational training that the OECD entered last autumn indicates that we have a good vocational and vocational training in Norway. The report boasts Norwegian tripartite cooperation and the importance it has for vocational training. But it also raises some challenges that we have to address. The Karlsen Committee has also pointed out in its report. For this reason, a number of measures have already been taken by the Government in relation to vocational and vocational training. Tests have been started on practical letters as part of the apprenticeship system. There is a practical path to ordinary competence, the greater part of the training is done in the enterprise. For some students, this is a loving way to demonstrate their competence. The Ministry has announced a review of the curricula in the common subjects, making them more relevant to the various training plans. I have great faith in this way of professionalising the subjects. Students need skills. So the question is, how do they acquire that competence? Since this review has been announced, I consider proposal No. 2 from the opposition as a means of opening doors. Continuing training of vocational teachers is one of the priority objectives of the Quality Competence Strategy. It's set at over 70 million. for the further training of vocational teachers, trainers and managers in apprenticeships. A good counselling service is important. From January this year, students are entitled to two types of counselling, both social education and educational and vocational counselling. Career centres have been established in all the counties of the country, and these are further strengthened in the budget for this year. Adequate numbers of apprenticeship places are also central. Public and private alike must take greater responsibility. The number of apprenticeships has increased under this government, and the ministry has carried out a national effort to provide more apprenticeships. In the examination of the Government’s package of measures earlier this year, the grant was also received by the educational establishments, increased by an average of NOK 4000 per year. apprentice. What does this have to do with the matter? Well, it gets too easy when the opposition in the notes, and the representative Anundsen in his post, makes this as if the Government doesn't do anything. The type of rhetoric does not work when you have concrete measures to refer to. But that doesn't mean that the Workers' Party and the other government parties are satisfied. That is exactly why we have previously been notified of a great deal of competence that goes right into the heart of what we are discussing today. The message is e.g. a follow-up to the Karlsen Committee and will address many of the proposals that we are currently considering, seen in a context. It is announced in June – in just a few weeks. In the Labour Party, like the representative Anundsen, we also look forward to this communication. Vocational and vocational training has always been close to the Workers' Party. That is why, during this period, we have implemented measures, and we look forward to the forthcoming communication, which will further point to measures that can strengthen and improve vocational and vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e565	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e581	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e588	The biggest issue in this case is to deal with a proposal from the Christian People's Party on a strengthened and more equivalent cultural school offer. The proposal is in two points: on asking the Government to draw up regulations for the cultural school activities ensuring the professional and social profile of the offer to ask the Government to propose the reintroduction of the system of earmarked grants to the cultural schools At the Committee's examination, the proposal was supported only by the Christian People's Party, who would also justify the proposal. So there's a broad consensus about the law as it is today, and the way it's practiced. I'll quote the card: ‘All municipalities shall have a music and cultural education offer for children and young people organised in conjunction with the school system and cultural life or otherwise, either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities.’ This means, therefore, that all municipalities have an obligation to have a music and cultural school offer, but that the municipalities themselves have the freedom to organise the business and provide it with content adapted to local conditions. As from the financial year 2005, the initial earmarked grant was included in the framework grant, a broad political consensus. It is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that ‘all children shall have a reasonable price offered in the cultural school’. Developments in recent years, when I talk about a 10- to 15-year perspective, have also been positive, with an increase in the number of student places. I can quote from a statistic that tells us that today the entire municipality of Norway spends more than SEK 1.3 billion on music and cultural schooling. We have 430 music schools in Norway, and we have 107,238 students in the cultural school. The cultural school, as it has evolved in a thirty-year perspective, from the first music schools to the cultural school as it appears today, is perhaps one of the greatest success stories we have in Norwegian cultural policy. It reaches out to everyone, we have it in every municipality. In addition to providing a training offer in the arts and cultural field to children and young people, it and its employees represent a very important resource, a centre of expertise in local culture. There's reason to give the Municipality of Norway credit for having invested as they have at the cultural school. They've invested a lot, and they've got a lot left. The proposal we are dealing with today is an expression of concern, a concern because some municipalities have significantly increased parental pay. A study has also been carried out by the Norwegian Cultural Council to tell us that a quarter of the cultural school principals consider the budgetary situation to be poor or very poor. This development is all reason to take it seriously. It is worrying that some municipalities increase the parental payment as they do, and that some municipalities cut in the offer. The majority of the Committee therefore emphasises the need for the Government to follow closely the developments and to ensure that the objective of providing a fair price to all children with a cultural school offer is achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e617	Cultural schools are an important cultural intermediary for children and young people. They provide learning for life. Many municipalities spend a lot of time offering children and young people a good offer through cultural schools. I'm glad. The Christian People's Party believes that cultural competence plays a major role in improving the quality of life. The municipal music and culture school has a 30-year history in Norway. There are few who have gained their interest in music and culture through this important offer. The cultural schools are of invaluable importance as the arena for children and the wide-ranging development of young people's lives. Cultural expressions and artistic skills are a source of important identity development and life development for both individuals and society. But even though many schools have developed well, many municipalities struggle to provide the schools with good and absolutely necessary framework conditions. It is essential that we take action to bring about a stronger and more equivalent cultural school offering across the country. Dramatic budget cuts as a result of poor local economy hit many cultural schools very hard. Differences in cultural school provision are also increasing. These include everything from the technical content of the school to the governance structure and the practice of legislation. It is essential that intervention is taken so that this negative development does not continue. I therefore believe there is a clear need to ensure the professional quality of the student offer by introducing clearer instructions in some areas. It's problematic that the schools can't take in anyone who wants to, and that a public, open offer thus seems discriminatory, as the waiting lists do today. In order for the law to have a function aimed at users, it is necessary to draw up a regulation setting minimum requirements for the duration of the waiting list. Furthermore, the regulation must clarify the purpose, content and design of the cultural school. The most important thing must be to ensure that cultural schools provide educational services in the arts and culture field to all children and young people, irrespective of their place of residence and their economy. We therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to draw up regulations for the cultural school activities which ensure the professional and social profile of the offer. The Christian People's Party also considers it necessary to assess the consequences of the removal of the earmarked grant. The results of a survey of Norwegian cultural schools have been carried out by Norwegian cultural school leaders following the 2009 municipal budgetary procedure are alarming. Each fourth head of culture characterises the budgetary situation in its own school as poor or very poor. The survey shows that the number of municipalities with more than NOK 3000 as the highest school bill for a student’s place per student. years are expected to be more than double between 2008 and 2010. Almost 30 pst. by the cultural school leaders who have responded to the Norwegian Cultural School Council's study, the budgetary situation of the cultural school is worse than it has been a few years ago. This shows that many have experienced a significant deterioration in the budget of the cultural school in recent years. In view of the developments observed in recent years, and in the light of the cross-political agreement to respect the specific nature of the school team, both professionally and socially, the system of earmarked grants should therefore be reintroduced. We therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the Government to make proposals to reintroduce the system of earmarked grants to the cultural schools. For the Christian People's Party, the training of this cultural capital has always been important. It belongs in an overall learning vision and in the overall competence we want to equip young people with. I believe that the goal of a strengthened and more equivalent cultural school offering across the country can be achieved through the measures we are now proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e643	Does the representative wish to address the proposals on the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e646	I made it implicit in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e651	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e654	There is a cross-political consensus that cultural schools are important. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government stresses the importance of culture to the individual human being and to society and points especially to the place of cultural schools. In the cultural chapter, it says among other things: ‘all children shall have a reasonable price offered in the cultural school’. Municipal music school activities, after each cultural school activity, have been in strong development in the last 30 years. At the turn of the millennium had approx. 60 pst. by the municipalities of the country offers in more subjects than music. Almost all municipalities have something for music training. There is great variation in the offer of music and culture schools around the country. Some have cooperated with schools on projects; in other places, cultural schools have been developed towards cultural educational resource centres. The offer includes training in many different artistic disciplines. Schools are owned and run by municipalities, and it is intended that cultural schools should be able to function as a link between primary and other cultural life. Norway is the only country in the world that has legislated the municipal music and cultural schools. On 5 June 1997 the law was passed in Stortinget. The law on primary and secondary education states this for the cultural schools: ‘All municipalities shall have a music and cultural education offer for children and young people organised in conjunction with the school system and cultural life or otherwise, either alone or in cooperation with other municipalities.’ It is the municipalities' seas that determine the content and extent of their cultural schools, without any overall leadership. This is a very important principle because it contributes to a great diversity and an activity that can be based on local assumptions. Therefore, it is not desirable to introduce state regulations or directives which make cultural school activities more uniform and less diverse. But it is important, as many have pointed out here, to follow developments in cultural schools with a view to ensuring good quality in education, based on the cultural choices that each school has made. An inquiry into the cultural schools that emerged at the turn of the century revealed some important principles for the activities. Here you say the following: ‘The ideological basis of a living music and cultural school is based on the principle that all people should be given the opportunity to experience and practice art and culture through their own activities and in the face of other people.’ Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘In the establishment of music and cultural schools, municipalities should have the clear objective of helping the music and cultural schools to give students the best opportunities to develop their musical and creative facilities.’ Many people have pointed out that in some municipalities there are waiting lists for the cultural schools, waiting lists that do not comply with the principle that the school should be able to offer everyone an offer. It is therefore important to follow this development, both in view of the fact that everyone who wants to have an offer and that the cultural school holds a reasonable student price. But it is in my opinion that the objective of a low student quota and a culture school that has room for everyone is not served by the designation of state grants or a state standard of max. It is the municipalities and communities that must be the owners of the cultural schools, and it is the democratically elected local politicians who must manage this ownership, and also the priority of the cultural schools in the municipal budgets. Then, of course, it is good that this country has a government like the red-green, which has raised the municipal economy through an increase of over 30 billion kroner in four years. The cultural school has a good reputation among local as well as central politicians. More and more people see what culture generates from creative power among children and young people. More and more people also see the relationship between this and a good learning environment in school in general. Therefore, this government will continue to invest in culture for children and young people through the municipal music schools, the cultural school bag and the voluntary cultural life. Everything here is related to everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e687	This is how the previous speaker pointed out that Norway has legislated that we are going to have cultural schools and music school offerings locally. That's the basic attitude on the left. We share the intention that this is an important school offer, but we believe that it is the municipalities that should be able to assess what the content is and that municipal freedom of action provides room for local solutions. It is also important that the cultural school can develop in the context of local cultural life. It gives municipalities a better opportunity to develop the local cultural school offering. That is why the Left will not support the proposal for a regulation, but we are promoting our own proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the preparation by each municipality of a framework plan for the provision of cultural education with content and quality requirements.’ I will take up this proposal on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e701	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e704	I am proud that Norway is one of the few countries in the world that have made the law that we should have a cultural school offer, that the municipality should offer it either alone or in cooperation with others. The fact that children and young people can receive training from competent people in culture and in different cultural expressions is extremely important both for identity, faith in themselves and for development. The fact that kids can get involved in the exercise and creation of art – making and creating things – is extremely important for being able to believe in themselves. I want to praise the municipalities that have invested in cultural schools. It has produced results, and it will produce results in the future. If you want to bet on cultural schools, you have to bet on the future. The Government’s aim in the cultural promise is that all children should receive an offer of cultural education at a reasonable price. The level, both in terms of the number of people allowed, and the amount of money spent in cultural schools, and also in terms of prices, varies greatly from municipality to municipality. I have to say that I agree with those who say that they are concerned about the development of some municipalities that have chosen both to increase the price and to reduce the level of cultural school provision. There should be a renegotiation of the Cultural Promise this spring between the three government parties. The goal is to 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. This is going to be achieved, and we have to renegotiate this and bet further on culture. In the context of this renegotiation, it is extremely important to focus on culture for children and young people and to take further action to ensure that we reach the goal set by this government that all children will receive a fair price for a cultural school offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e734	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2957]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e752	The interpellation will be taken up by the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e755	We have a major challenge of non-retirement in higher education. There are many reasons why students fall away. We know that approx. 34 pst. by the students either finish or complete without being in one or more subjects. We know that in some professions the share is over 50 pst. It's a serious social problem. Among other things, we see: on the new unemployment rates, that it is just the group of young people falling out of high school who are also most vulnerable to unemployment now. We also see that in the same group, among the youngest, the proportion of social welfare recipients is increasing the most. This is closely related. As mentioned above, there are many reasons for non-compliance with secondary education. One of the reasons for this is that you have a high level of youth absence, especially in the tenth grade. One of the reasons is that you have bad grades. In particular, there will be evidence of poorer literacy and inclusion in higher education. Some of the rejection is due to poor advice. In other words, the basis for wrong choices is already laid at the youth level, that you do not get the advice and the professional guidance that you really need, and in that way chooses the wrong one. But it's also important to point out that whether you get into your first choice or not in higher education is a key factor in whether you're implementing, and that's, as you can understand, an important factor in your motivation. The second major problem facing school in Norway is that we reproduce social differences. It's the way the school was supposed to be an arena where you help balance the differences between students because they have different social backgrounds. But instead, we see that the school unfortunately contributes to the maintenance of these differences and in many cases strengthen them. With the two challenges as hindrances, it is important to ask the question: what can we do to help solve the problems? There are many factors that contribute. The idea of free choice is far from the only one that's going to change the picture. I still think it's a significant point to draw it up in an interpellation debate, simply because it has many sides. It is the students who are the main focus of the Right when we want to introduce a free schooling system to the secondary schools. There is an ideological justification behind this point of view: the ability of students to choose education for themselves and, therefore, decide on their own interests as to which course of school and education they want to follow is the most important thing. Studies carried out show that there is a large majority of students who want to have free choice of school because it is the only admission system that gives students equal, real opportunities. I am also convinced that the free choice of school contributes to the motivation of the students, and that they are therefore more motivated for the training they are going to undertake. Studies also show that implementation rates increase if the first choice has been made. It should be quite obvious that all students should have the same opportunity to enter the schools they want, regardless of where their parents live. By means of their own efforts, students will thus be able to make choices for themselves. I think it's a good signal to send to young people who we're trying to suggest are going to take an increasing responsibility for their own lives and for their own training, that they're going to be allowed to choose what education they want. There's really nothing more fair than giving everyone the same opportunity. No matter where your parents live, there are installations and abilities that will determine which choices you can make for the future. In 2007, the Municipality of Oslo received a report from the NIFU STEP assessing the positive and negative aspects of different intake systems. The report concludes that the character-based intake system is best suited to enhance social mobility in the city and that most pupils are first met by a character-based admission system. There is no system of intake that is perfect. But free choice of schools based on grades increases students’ own influence on their own schooling and promotes social mobility. Oslo Municipality has also had a system of regional input, but it did not work properly. It just got more random, and of course, it got easier for the center students to get into popular center schools and more difficult for, for example. minority students moving out of their own region. For example, at Oslo Handelsgym, a popular school, 32 points were needed to get in if you lived in the center. If you lived in Stovner or Grorud, you needed 52 points to get into the same school. It does not promote social mobility, but it does, on the contrary, contribute to locking eastern edge livers inside the eastern edge and western edge livers inside the west edge. Right wants all students, wherever they live, to have the same opportunities to enter the school they want. We want the schools to help compete for the students, because it will help make the schools better. We're also going to have a system where the schools are trying to keep the students, and make sure they get through the school run. Why on earth should we not, through the school system, facilitate social mobility, facilitate the realisation of skills and talents where possible? Why is it that the students from the resource-intensive areas of the city, where parents have the highest education, the highest income, should have the right to take precedence over the most sought-after schools? Is that a good school policy? Well, I don't think so. I think that we, who are responsible for the whole, should focus on the choice that students want to make, and thus contribute to making schooling easier, greater freedom of choice and better schools. You could say that we have free school choices today. All parents who can afford and have the opportunity to move have free school choices for their children. They can take their children with them and move to another part of the city to be the first one to act as an input for the students. But it is not to contribute to cohesion and social mobility. On the contrary, it's helping to reinforce the differences that are there. As mentioned above, the municipality of Oslo, as a county municipality, received a report from NIFU STEP in 2007. The report is called ‘All sheep, but who gets what?’ It is an evaluation of different intake schemes. The region-based approach followed by the municipality of Oslo until then had three objectives: that as many students as possible should be assured their real desire for the first choice that as many students as possible should be offered to go to school in their community that the composition of the pupils should become more heterogeneous The report concludes that it is not possible to achieve the objective of ensuring more people’s real desire for first choice without expanding the most popular schools. The most popular schools are located in the centre of Oslo, which means that it is not possible for a student from Groruddalen or from Nordstrand to enter the centre schools under a region-based admission system. The question is: is it fair and contributes to social mobility? For the Right, it is essential that the entry rules be seen as fair and that they motivate students to take action in high school. It doesn't feel fair when students from some areas take precedence over other students just because their parents happen to live in another area. It is not fair for parents to determine the place of residence of their children. The study by NIFU STEP also shows that a large majority of students believe it is positive to meet new students from other areas and break up old and established structures. In the evaluation, over 80 pst. by the students that they think meeting students from other parts of the city is a positive feature of a character-based admission system. Nearly half of the students agree with the claim that it was important to get away from previous classmates. A study from Synovate also shows that a large majority of students want free schooling. The applicant behaviour of students is quite important evidence of this. In the school year 2004–2005 it was over 50 pst. by applicants applying for a school other than secondary school. It is also important to remember that free choice of schools contributes to the development of schools. Let me end with two examples that I think are quite illustrative. Ullern high school, a school that is today being presented as a very good school, which has exciting development projects going on – like Oslo Cancer Cluster – and which in a few years has grown from being a middle-sized school to becoming a very large school, was a school that in a school year a few years ago had about. nine primary applicants. The school was threatened with closure, it was going to be closed if nothing drastic happened. Thanks to the free selection of schools, the school administration could make a grip that made it more attractive to get to Ullern. We see results of this today. Similarly, Stovner's secondary school has undergone quite a change. Stovner secondary was also a school that was threatened with closure. School management took quite considerable steps to change teaching, making it more attractive to be a student at Stovner, and the results did not wait. There is also one of the schools in Oslo today with most applicants because the school has a different scheme. They do things differently, and it attracts students. Free choice of schools helps to increase social mobility and helps to increase motivation, reduce absenteeism and develop schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e814	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e817	In my reply, I believe that the representative Isaksen – and to the extent that the representative Eriksen Soreide too – aims for free schooling within the student's home state, and not across the county boundaries. I understand the post clearly in that direction as well. Young people with the right to further training have, upon application, a legal right to take one of three alternative challenge programmes at further stage 1 and to two years of further training based on the same challenge programme. Applicants have to choose within their home country's collective training provision. If there are more searches than a student's slot, then the places will be allocated according to a score based on characters. The order of the score should be determined by subtraction. It's the home state that decides which one of the state's schools the student is to be granted his right to admission. They are free to choose an input scheme that meets the local needs of the county. The law therefore does not preclude the county councils from exercising free schooling where a challenge program is given by several schools, for example. on admission to the study-promoting challenge programmes. I can add here that the situation today is that there are very different ways to practice this around the country. There are many different models. But one might say there are three main categories. One county practice a purely character-based intake. Other county councils practice a very clean principle of close proximity. But then we have several that are in an intermediate category, where one has a type of regional division, that parts of the student mass can search for the nearby ball, while others can search, character-based, throughout the county. This is, as I see it, the central question. Today, the county council decides the location of the students in the schools in the county. This is mainly due to local freedom of action. Geographical differences, school structure and different needs for school pillows in the individual counties indicate that the choice of the admission scheme should be left to the county. I can't see that it would be preferable to take from the county councils, such as students, the right and the right to adopt their own input arrangements. The most obvious argument for it seems to me that the county of Norway is not just a little bit, but extremely different. From Oslo to Nordland, from Westfold to Finnmark, there are very large differences in extent, in the number of people who live there, and in the number of secondary schools. Of course, there may also be differences between the main challenges and the industrial structure of the state. So what's confirmed in Finnmark County isn't necessarily the best way to do it in Oslo, and vice versa. It is easy to see that within a school structure with many advanced schools and a well-developed collective offer, a character-based school choice can be relevant. But I want to add that there might be different assessments here. I am well aware of the report ordered in Oslo. The main conclusion here is that the two slightly different systems one has had in recent years have not given such a very different outcome in different directions, but that on the contrary, there are very small differences. But some consequences are pointed out. A clear difference that one could see when one introduced the four regions, i.e. a partly character-based and partly region-based intake in Oslo, was that it was easier for the elephants from the center area to enter schools near where they themselves bid. So, from the center area that didn't have very good grades, there was a greater possibility of going to school in the vicinity of where they offered. They had less to move, which was perceived as a positive good for many of those who wanted to go to a school that was not very far away from where they themselves caged. Another thing that I would like to highlight as positive is that on some of the continuing schools on the eastern edge of Oslo, a more heterogeneous student mass was found, which was also positive there. I therefore believe that there will be different views on the extent to which the various systems in Oslo have resulted in social mobility. I have recorded that those who have been critical of the changes now argue with exactly the same meaning, that it creates more social mobility and less differences to have the blending system you have had. For county municipalities with long distances between advanced schools, and where collective services are less developed, I think character-based school choices can have more unfortunate consequences. Such an input mechanism could increase the search for the central struts of the county, while at the same time reducing the demand for edge balls. This will increase the cost of school cleaning for the county and increase the cost of training and may lead to a low efficiency in the use of capacity in some schools. It can also make it difficult to maintain good service in the districts and, in the long term, make the settlement difficult for some places in the country. An introduction of the obligation for county councils to have a character-based school choice may therefore have negative consequences for pupils. An input scheme for further training, which takes out the starting point of the free selection of the school, suggests that the characters determine which school in the county can go. It is clear that it can also facilitate the development of so-called ‘A’ and ‘B’ balls. Experience shows that students do have schools that are popular for different reasons. By opening up to an input system in this way, the result could be that some schools are given a strong overweight of low professional qualifications and low school motivation. In those cases where the popular schools are centrally located, this could lead to elephants with weak characters being pushed into long journeys, because there is no room in the school that is closest to them. I mean that pressing on a county municipality a particular system to choose further training doesn't lead to the freedom of students that applies regardless of how a cage, and regardless of social background. In my opinion, the result for many elephants will be the opposite. Free school choices, or character-based school choices, can give a real freedom of choice only to students of good grades, whereas it may have contradicted consistency for others, often those who most of all may need a good follow-up and a good school. Today’s legislation opens up the possibility for the county council to decide to have either an admission scheme based on character-based school choices or an admission scheme that focuses on other conditions, such as: geographical proximity. In my opinion, the best way to deal with the question is that the county authorities themselves can choose the type of input system they should have. And then I'm going to add that it's quite right, as was said here, that there's a connection between being able to achieve their first choice and failure in the further education. There is, of course, a debate about making it easier, of course, but I have not previously recorded that the Right Party has proposed. The obvious change then is to go in that direction. The reason for not doing so, of course, is that it will lead to a much larger capacity in higher education, and that there is also a need for a certain link between the supply of different places of study and the search. I think the answer rather than demanding from the state that we have to have a type of input system for very different states to achieve that, rather than working with the structure locally, so that the most possible can achieve their first choice, or one of the other choices they have. So in the end, it's interesting to note that the representative Eriksen Soreide's analysis at the beginning could have been taken straight out of SV's program or the red-green government's policy. I thought it was a very good summary of the main challenges we face, as the high drop-off in the secondary school, which leads to great social bias later on. We see, for example: Now that the chance of being out of work is more than twice as great if one has not completed further education. There is also a major problem with the large social bias in recruitment to further education and higher education, which needs to be developed. We have just received a thick document from the so-called Distribution Selection, which has gone very professionally into these questions. It's interesting to see that the solutions they're proposing, far in the way, are the exact opposite of the one they're proposing. What are they saying? Well, first of all, that we have to start with early efforts, before school age – cut down cash support, introduce free core time into kindergartens, lay a foundation for the pupils – and second, that we have to keep up with the policy we have, by focusing on the teacher in school, for the teacher with the key competence for students to be better forbidden. And then they point out that when it comes to non-response, we need to deal with alternative races, such as the practice letter system, which is being drawn out, and that we need to provide a better supply for adults in retrospect. So I don't think forcing the county councils a certain system is the answer to a very serious challenge that we're a few about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e851	In both the 2001–05 government period and the whole of this opposition period, a number of proposals have been made, both alone and in conjunction with the other opposition parties, to reduce the drop-out rate in secondary education. The parties have voted against all the proposals. We have made proposals alone or together with the other opposition parties to strengthen the teacher. What I referred to at the beginning of my post was the main conclusions of the NIFU STEP report. At least it wasn't the beginning of SV's game program, it's safe! In several right-hand run county municipalities, we have gone to the front to get free school choices or variants of free school choice. There's also something we've fixed for a long time. We believe that, in some contexts, the principles of freedom of choice and the possibility of completing secondary education should be the governing law of the county councils. I also understand that there is a discussion about capacity and how to develop schools and school environments in order to have the ability to have the character-based intake schemes that you, for example, have. has seen here in Oslo. At the same time, I think the experience from Oslo shows that it's fully possible; it's true, and it's given success. So the Council of State points out, as I also mentioned, that one of the findings of the 2007 NIFU STEP report is that it will be easier for middle school students to enter the middle school. He then meant to say that it was positive, because they did not want to go to school outside the center or outside their residential area. And it is absolutely right that the report points to that. But then the question is, is it fairer that there is a place of residence that decides, than that there are grades and desires of the students who decide? The question he is asking is whether it is fair that only those with the good qualities have the real freedom of choice. I want to turn it upside down and say, is it fair that only those who have the right place of residence have the real freedom of choice – either because they are students in an admission system who are more concerned with geography than with grades, individual desires and opportunities, or because they have parents who are so resourceful that they can move with their kids to the school circle or the region where they want to send their children to school? I don't think it's real freedom of choice. I think it's real freedom of choice that everyone gets the same chance to go to school where they want, based on what performance they've delivered. And an interesting point is that the parties that are most sceptical about free school choices for 16-year-olds are the same parties that are most eager to give 16-year-olds the right to vote and to stand for election. So when you're a 16-year-old, you don't have to be able to pick school, but you have to be able to go to the Stortinget, pass laws, send soldiers in the war – that's okay. But to decide which school to go to, that's not okay. In that case, the administrative authority of the county shall be the superior body of individuals, students, desires and thoughts. I don't think it contributes to promoting social mobility. I don't think it helps to promote a system of minor drop-outs in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e862	All options are equally valuable. The only way to make sure that everyone gets exactly what they want, is if the Right makes a suggestion here in the Chamber that everyone should come into their first choice, and then we build up the capacity of further education after that. I have not recorded that the Right Cork means or votes in favour. How do we balance it so that most people, regardless of whether they have good or bad characters or where they live, get their wishes fulfilled? The truth is, some people want to go to one particular school in a very different place from where they live. Others want to be allowed to go to the school where they live. That some people think that a choice to go to school far away from where a cage, has a higher value than a choice to go to school near where a cage, I can't see. I think we have to assume that everyone's choices should be met as much as possible, and the truth is that today we know that there isn't one system – unless we build the capacity, so that everyone can get their first choice – that can ensure that everyone gets it exactly as they want. Then the question is, should we decide what is right here at Stortinget in Nordland, in Finnmark, in Vestfold and in Oslo, or can Oslo's politicians best decide what is right? My answer to that is, like many other questions, yes. If we look at the issues we've been dealing with today, I think it's striking that everyone has one thing that they think is best for the politicians here at Stortinget to decide, while one thing in other cases would argue for the opposite. I think we should be able to learn a little bit about a general principle, that unless there are compelling reasons that speak against it, we should let politicians take the decisions, not least when there are significant differences with regard to what the Norwegian states look like. That's what this liability is. Then the politicians in Oslo can discuss which arrangement is best for themselves. Then the politicians in the Nordic countries can discuss it in the Nordic countries, which are very different from Oslo. So finally, the statement that we haven't done anything about the non-response. It falls completely to say that it has a primacy. On the contrary, during this period it has been carefully focused on the development of non-response. We have now had a great NOU in the course of work that we have seen down to look at the full quality of continuing training, and which has gone into decline badly after we have carried out extensive improvements – strong strengthening and professionalisation of the counselling in both youth schools and advanced schools, new subjects, educational choices at the youth level, testing the practice letter as an alternative course, which has been a great success where it has been tried out, increased apprentice training and a number of other measures – and not least that we address the challenge of early work, because the drop-out in the continuing school starts long before one comes to further progress. It is at kindergarten and elementary school level that the large lift has to be taken to reduce the dropout.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e871	The interpellation deals with a topic that has sometimes created a lot of debate, both nationally and not least in the different municipalities. I am particularly familiar with the discussion we have had in Akershus, where you have gone both two and three rounds before you arrive at the solution you now have. Also in Oslo, the debate has been fresh about free school choices, or character-based admissions, and so is the situation in many other states. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, is, as Oslo representative, particularly concerned with the Oslo School. But there's a difference between Oslo and the school in Northern Ireland. I believe that the representative also agrees. Today it is up to the county councils themselves to choose how they will manage school admissions and school choices for the students. Much argues that this local school administration makes sense. Different county municipalities have different considerations in relation to both school structure, geography and student composition. I believe that they can also weigh these considerations around the counties and make good solutions anchored locally or regionally. In several counties, some form of free school choice, or character-based admission, is currently being practised — in whole or in part in combination with other considerations. In Akershus there is a model that is partly based on character acquisition and partly on the secondary school principle. There is now cross-political agreement on this solution, after the right-wing parties had previously introduced free school choice. There was a lot of noise around free school choices in Akershus. Even in a country with relatively small travel distances, there were many students who got a disproportionately long travel distance – and even though there were offers of that line, the direction of study that they wanted to go, at a high school that was closer to the place of residence. The free choice of school for some was not a free choice of school for others. The freedom of some became inextricable to others. The finest students with the best grades have their freedom, while those with medium or weaker grades do not have that freedom. It's not fair, it's not a policy the Workers' Party wants to go further in the direction of. You could ask yourself, is it really free choice of school? Character-based admissions give some free school choices, while others are given the choice of others. How motivating is it to be sent to a school any longer, if you don't want to, perhaps for those students who are not the best in character and who most need motivation to improve or to complete school? I also believe that there is reason to ask questions about how the school landscape will produce a purely character-based recording. I don't want any further development towards schools for those with the best grades and schools for those with the less good grades. There is a real danger of even greater development towards A and B schools. Such division conflicts with how the Workers' Party wants our society to be. That being said, the county council is organizing this today, and that is what it should still be. I believe that this is well organised locally, and that it takes into account those that are adapted to local circumstances. In the case of the Workers' Party, at least a general scheme for character-based admission is not desirable in all counties. For my part, a state system should go in a somewhat opposite direction to take into account all students – not just for someone's freedom. I'm also counting on now that I've perceived the interpellation in the right way. In the past, there have been people who have suggested that free schooling should apply not only within a state but on a national basis. I'm not interpreting the interpellation in that direction, so I'm dealing with the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e892	The question of free school choice is debated in this room from time to time, and that is a very important question. It's one of the questions that shows some of the crucial principal lines between those who believe in the individual student's ability to make good choices themselves and those who think that one has to be a politician to know how students' choices are going to be right. I have to say that the representative Kjernli's posts are suitable for creating significant concerns. He said something like that the free choice of school became freedom for someone and freedom for others, and he said it resulted in A and B schools. So today, there are free school choices in approx. half of the counties. Can the representative, Kjernli, document the claims he made from the pulpit of Storting? What counties have A and B schools? What counties have schools that are very good and very bad, as a result of the free choice of school? I don't think the representative can come along with that. He even said something like that if you were to have a national system, it should go towards making freedom of choice real for everyone, implicitly reducing the free choice of schools in the states that have chosen to have it today. It's a scary statement, and it says something about how you think. There is a class distinction in Norway today, a class distinction between those municipalities and counties that have free school choices, which allows students and parents to choose which school they want to attend, and those municipalities and counties that do not have free school choices but which are governed by various forms of circuit boundaries. There's a big difference between living in a state like this. Vestfold, with free school choices, or a municipality like Larvik, with free school choices, and living in a municipality like Skien, two miles away, which is in a state without free school choice. There's a very big difference based on very small distances. The main difference between places is who controls. The progress party thinks it's the parents and the students who know best. Kernli, the Council of State and the Red Government believe they know best. It's search. I have to say I'm very pleased with this interpellation from the Right. Interpellation opens up a very good development. The Progress Party is currently considering a proposal for the introduction of free school choice throughout primary and secondary education in the Church, Education and Research Committee. In the past, the Progress Party and the Right have promoted a number of proposals together to introduce free choice in secondary education; the Right has so far been some restraint in free choice of school at primary school. I think this interpellation is moving towards the fact that you can also consider introducing free schooling in the municipalities, because of course, the principle view and the principle starting point are the exact same whether you go to high school or you go to high school. That is why I look forward to the next debate on free choice of schools, which will take place if not too long when the proposals of the Progress Party are to be discussed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e905	The ideological differences and the different school-policy solutions between the SV and the right-hand side are only becoming clearer and clearer. While the Right used its National Meeting to discuss a desire to impose admission requirements on students in order to enter high school and also to pursue secondary education, the Swedish authorities are addressing the fundamental causes of the recent drop-out in high school. The dropout in high school is too high, and it's scary. It's a big social problem. SV discusses and will implement measures to ensure early intervention, provide our young people with help when they need it, gain more teachers and more time to learn how to read and write. We put in place more counselling for our students, we are going to implement a more practical high school, and we are going to launch measures for the follow-up of high school students. Dumping the kids and leaving them behind solves absolutely no problems, it only creates problems. While the Court of Justice also chooses to decide that they wish to introduce grades in the fifth grade, SV launches development talks with parents and students every six months. It gives teachers better skills to assess students — where they stand and where they should be. Giving motivation to the students is the way we can get our students to succeed and learn more. We have to give good, concrete feedback. The introduction of characteristics for young people does not create better learning and understanding of the subject. For too many, this does not become a motivation. When the Court of Justice decides to divide five- and six-year-olds into groups according to their level of knowledge, it is heartbroken. As a result, we create losers. It's also the way that all students learn better from going to a mixed class. This is research-based knowledge. Why do I now use my own time to review part of the right-hand side proposal now? Because today's interpellation debate on free school choices, or rather character-based admission, is part of exactly the same ideological solution, which is not research-based, and which is not anchored anywhere other than in the right-hand side of the world. The OECD warns against free schooling. At a conference in Trondheim in 2007, the OECD presented a new report, «Equity in Education» — equivalent education — with ten points for a fairer and inclusive school based on experience in ten countries, including Norway. The report strongly argues against private schools, but also strongly argues against the consequences of free school choice or character-based admission, because there is more social segregation and inequality. SV is strongly opposed to purely character-based recording. We know that this leads to some students becoming winners, and others become losers. In order to ensure throughput, and that students do not fall out of secondary education, we know that it is important that they enter their first choice, it is important that they receive good advice, and we know that it is important that they receive good follow-up in higher education. Freedom of choice leads to stronger social segregation in schools, and does not at all lead to a fairer school and better social cohesion. Placing students in classes only by grades is not the way to create neither a better society nor a better learning for each student. This proposal, which is also under consideration in the Committee, is one of many ideological right-wing movements proposed by the right-hand side, which is not rooted in research-based evaluation, but also in ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e920	The question of free choice was also discussed by the Committee earlier this period following a proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal was then only supported by the Right. The Christian People's Party has not changed since then. When we don't approve of this, it's because the county councils are school owners, and it's therefore natural that they also decide the admission rules. There is also a reason for differences in the rules of entry from state to state. Geography, school structure and school kiss organisation are all factors affecting the ability of each county municipality to meet the individual student’s primary school wish. The county councils have full freedom to introduce character-based admissions if considered an appropriate instrument for the organisation of the training offer. Is it the justice aspect that is the argument for imposing a level playing field on county councils? The imposition of a so-called free school choice on all counties could have adverse consequences. If pupils are only required to be decisive in the field of student placement competition, this could result in some students being subjected to longer-term schooling disadvantages, being forced to move on a traineeship, etc. In such a situation, some students will be forced to choose a different offer from what they primarily want. For these students, therefore, free schooling will not become a reality. The county councils are responsible for facilitating their provision of secondary education so that there is a dissemination between schools of the educational programmes, subjects and fields of activity offered by the various schools. This has to do with local democracy. The difference between the school owners who have adopted the right to free choice and those who do not have it lies in the admission process. The county councils are responsible for the dimensioning of each school, some of which are cross-border. The Christian People's Party believes that the county should continue to have this responsibility. In this case, one will experience that the Christian People's Party has a central position. This is not of a very ideological nature; we want our representatives to make decisions based on what they look like locally. Therefore, a person will experience that KrFs are both for free choice of school and for free choice of school in parts of the country. As for the non-response, I would also like to say that I do not know if this is the solution that will work anywhere, but also not increased the theory hours for the very least is the answer. There is reason to note that the red-green government has not had enough pressure on this matter, so that we could really get the flow of all the students who fall out of high school. Today, we are warned by LO, who believes that we now also have a drop-out of youth in the workplace, and that the government does not do enough for them either. Here I think we have an incredibly big task in front of us, both to ensure that all students feel belonging and mastering and can complete the school, and that, when you're going to get out of work, you don't experience once again being excluded and falling outside of society. We have a job to do to create an inclusive society. We don't think this imposed by the state on free choice of school will be involved in solving it. We think it's solved by having free schooling where it's local.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e942	The legal basis is clear. The Training Act says: ‘Youth which has completed primary or corresponding education is entitled to three years of full-time continuing training upon application.’ Furthermore, it says that the applicants ‘have the right to receive one of three alternative training programmes’. So the law doesn't say anything about the right to choose school. The collection arrangements are maintained by the individual counties. This means that the county decides what should be the basis for admission to secondary school, i.e. The order in which the students enter. Therefore, the arrangements are also different. This was also Solhjell inside his post instead. The usual causes of the state’s dimensioning of offers include: in recent years, the applicant patterns, the school buildings in the county, the plans and opportunities for regional development of competence, and not least the competence of the county and schools. It is important – we have heard that today – to find arguments both for and against free choice of school. The argument for free choice of school is, among other things, It provides a real choice for students living on the outskirts who have good grades, that schools need to focus more on quality, that it is likely that most students will still apply for their secondary school, and that students who need to change the environment will get it easier. This appeals to free school choice. Then you can also find objections to the other way – that is, against. It may be feared that low-quality students will lose weight, that the concentration of applications to schools in central districts will become high, that A, B and C schools may develop, and that there may be a long school path for many students and increased skyscraping costs. It can also have consequences for students who do not get into their nearest school and have to move on to a hive at a young age. And there may be a danger that the drop-off will increase, as is also mentioned here today. When there are so many arguments for and against, one might ask: Is it the state or state that is best to determine the input systems? The answer from the Center Party is that the states are best placed to determine this. The background is that our counties are very different, and that secondary schools are the responsibility of the county council. Then I want to say a little about my own home country, Uppland. It was said a lot about Oslo here instead. Upland counties have practised free school choice for a number of years, i.e. all aliens compete equally with all schools in the state. In the training directory, a small reservation has been made, where it says: ‘The applicant may be relocated to other schools on the basis of an overall assessment of the applicant’s travel distance and grades to individual schools and courses.’ So this has worked well, despite long distances and the fact that the county is very varied – from large, populous municipalities to regions where scattered settlements and pig-grown struts are the most common. One prerequisite for doing this is that there are high-schools in all the regions. Most people apply to schools near where they live. I've checked the number for the search now in 2009, and that's just 2.9 pst. by those from high school who have come out of the region where they live. So most people want to go to high school. But if the main mass wants to go to the nearest school, there are people who care that school, for example. is nice and new. I guess that's understandable in many ways. Gjøvik, for example, has a newly restored and modern high school. An additional dimension is that it's very large, and many students also want a little bit bigger environments. Gjøvik secondary school was therefore surveyed this school year. Then there were the characters that counted, and the other students came into neighboring schools. Some competition can also be healthy. Finally, in Uppland, it's almost 95 pst. by the students who receive their first choice, and that's good. In this debate, there has also been little mention of non-response. Non-response is serious, but free school choices do not solve this. Early work from kindergarten and primary school is already necessary and appropriate training becomes important. I will end with mentioning Uppland again, because I went out instead and checked the drop-off percentage in Uppland. It's about 30 pst. So it's about the same thing as the national average. So the issue of waste is not solved by free choice of school, but is good for many other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e974	The Left's big program, on which I've been chosen, says that the Left is for free school, but that it's up to the states to assess. I think we've got two good illustrations of why free selection works. We have received an illustration from the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, but also from the representative of Inger S. Enger. The few people here would say that there are no distances in Uppland. It's not ferries, but it's distances. The whole premise for thinking about free school choices and meeting the choice of pupils and supervisors is that school owners are betting in schools, so that they represent a quality that makes students interested in them. I think that in a lot of cases, it'll be like the representative, Mr. Enger, says, but it obviously gives you an opportunity to apply for something else where you know that the school offer is what you want. And then I want to go into what's drawn up: what can then seem to prevent apostasy? Everyone in this room agrees to start early. But most people should agree – not only in words, but also in actions – that then one must make sure that the teachers have a sparkling, good training. With the red-green scheme it takes approx. 32 years before Norwegian teachers receive systematic further training, and with Left’s scheme it goes about. eight years, because we're going to phase it in. There's a big difference between 8 years and 32 years! In this room one should be concerned about an investigation that really goes on the downfall. There is an investigation by the current government that shows that there is a close link between results in high school and other schools and the level of competence of teachers. We know that the level of competence of teachers is best in Oslo, Akershus and South Trondelag, and that it is very mixed up in large parts of the country. The fact that you have such a weak pressure on raising the level of competence of teachers in general really creates social differences. It really creates social differences between the different parts of the country and the regions, and makes sure that we live with a situation we can't be familiar with. But then back to the experiences I have from Oslo School. I have the same experience that the representative Eriksen Soreide has drawn up, and here you get to assume that this is a city of social challenges, tensions and differences. This is also a city of 33 pst. language minorities. One would think that this was a hopeless project. Why is it going to be a good project? It will be a good project because the school owner, read: the municipality, both politically and administratively, has been committed to clear goals for learning and on clear, professional profiles in the schools – I am talking about the secondary schools – and has turned schools that have had a reputation for being terribly bad, to be good. And what's been key again is that the schools have had a theme offer that's good, the teachers are good, and the school management is good. So it has been shown for some time that weak schools on the west side, such as the representative Eriksen Soreide brought up, but also in the Grorud valley, have turned to good, because you wanted to put it together in the county – i.e. in the municipality. School management in the municipality, in the individual schools and in the teachers, and of course it creates vibrations. There must be reason to stress that, for example: Norwegian-Pakistani — a significant, large minority-speaking group in Norway — further progresses towards higher education above the average for the Norwegian population. Getting the pride that lies in knowledge being power – which all students as parents will understand – and investing in it, the Left believes is absolutely crucial. This is under the assumption that you can also use a free schooling scheme in several places in the country. But I have the experience in my life that Norway is so different that we can't simply insist that what can work in Oslo, and for that matter in Oppland, can work anywhere. The left will bet on, is the quality of the school, on the school management and on the teachers. At that point, we have a national, nationwide commitment that we have prioritised politically, and as I think there is reason to emphasise in this debate as well. So it's true that this debate has some positions. It has a red-green position, and it has an extreme right-position, which is the representative of Anundsen with a state price, and then it has a heavy social-liberal centre position, which in this context is also represented by the representative of Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e993	I would like to thank you for the debate. But I don't buy the argument from Gorm Kjernli that free schooling contributes to A and B schools. I'd rather ask the question this way: is it okay that we have A and B schools if nobody knows about it, and the students are just placed there? Because that's the reality if you don't have a free school choice — if you don't have the opportunity to choose one school and choose another school. That's how the situation would have been in Oslo if the students at Ullern in their time had not had the opportunity to opt out, and if the students at Stovner in their time had not had the opportunity to opt out. Then those schools wouldn't get better, because no one would demand that they get better. Then there are many, including the Lena Jensen government parties and, to some extent, the Council of State, who have wanted the debate to be about something quite different than free school choice. Let me just say first to the representative Lena Jensen: I don't know what the representative regards as a ‘research-based’ policy, but if not a report from NIFU STEP can be considered research-based, I'm a little uncertain about what in the SV's world is considered research-based. In the same way that the representative Lena Jensen was very concerned about the Røjre national meeting, I can rest assured that it was not adopted at the Röjre national meeting that the representative would like to be adopted there, namely to divide students by skills in different classes at the first stage. What was adopted, however, was to have more clearly adapted training from the start. The reason for that debate is that the school is not able to provide adapted training to a high degree. The difference between the Land Meeting of the Right and the SV, where there are both radical proposals, is that the Land Meeting of the SV adopts the radical proposals that come, for example. to say no to all fresh oils. The Court’s national meeting adopts sensible measures to improve the Norwegian school system. And then the Council of State has been very concerned with early efforts, and he meets no resistance from the Right in terms of early efforts. Rather, on the contrary, it was so that we focused on early efforts long before Bård Vegar Solhjell became a politician. In this city, SV were strong opponents of ‘ABC and 123’ – play with numbers and letters in kindergarten – because SV believed that kindergarten should only be a playground for play, not for learning. But the times have obviously changed, and today the SV is trying to acquire ownership for early efforts. There are no parties in this room who oppose early efforts – rather on the contrary. Both the Right and other opposition parties have promoted up to several suggestions throughout our opposition life, throughout our reign, to improve the early efforts. The first thing Kristin Clement did when she became the Council of State was to make sure that children would learn to read and write in the first class. After Reform 97 — the social-democratic school reform that got six-year-olds into school — reading and writing training in the first class was prohibited. Think of what it has done to help maintain the distinction between those who could, and those who could not, before they started school! We would like to have a clearer discussion about early action. This discussion has primarily been about free schooling, which I still believe is right and important, both for motivation, for minor drop-outs and for better schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1010	The right was busy for the years before I became a politician, was to cut a school year, for which they went in, it was to fight against the law enforcement right to the continuing school, which Right went against, and it was to fight the kindergarten bet. It was the Right Flagship before I was a politician! But luckily, the Right has taken the sense of all those points, and a plural at the Right National Meeting went in to continue the right of further training for all. A few words at the end: I thank you for a good and interesting debate about an old butcher from my time as a youth politician, about what kind of input system you should have in school. We've discussed that a lot. But that's not really what this debate is about. What is the debate about, at what level are politicians going to adopt what kind of system we are going to have for young people in further training? In any case, for politicians at some level, a decision on how we should have a system to allocate young people to different secondary schools, unless one is for everyone to have the first choice. I believe that the debate well illustrates that this is a good argument that it should be able to adopt one in the county, and I am pleased that it is a broad majority for it. It means that there are two important arguments: the one is that this is not a question of class separation, as the representative Anundsen said, where on one hand they have free human beings where there are character-based school choices, or free school choices, as in Larvik, and on the other hand those who live in servitude in municipalities and counties where there is no such thing. The truth is, it's not quite obvious which system is the right one. It can vary, and it can actually determine with common sense locally. I think we've got more good examples here that maybe this doesn't always play as much role as we think in the debates. Upland is such an example. In many districts, many will choose their nighshoe. In NIFU STEP's report on Oslo, the main commandment is that it doesn't really play as much role as one can get the impression in ideological debates. The second reason, of course, is that it is important that important decisions which have a significant impact on costs and which are important policy issues should be taken by politicians in the individual counties. I'm glad there's a lot of excitement about it. So finally, the entrance to much of the debate was the work against non-response. I just sum up that no task is more important than seeing the elephants leave school with good knowledge, and that one reduces the drop-out – to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities, to reduce the great social differences and for the future needs of the workforce. It's early work in kindergarten – kindergarten is the largest knowledge lift we've been doing in recent times – early school effort, commitment to the skills of teachers, multiple teachers, several hours, and it's addressing the challenges of practice and alternative courses and other tools, not least to keep the pressure on apprenticeships with thousands of new apprenticeship places this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1023	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1037	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and 5 minutes to the other parties. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1046	This is a historic day. For the first time, the Stortinge shall deal with a separate report on men, roles and equality. Without a complete overview of the whole world, I think there's a reason to say that we in Norway have the best men in the world, not least if we talk about equality. Men are good at changing diapers, we're good at bringing and getting in the kindergarten, and we're not so bad at cleaning and cleaning. But men can get even better, and men will even more. And the message adds up to just that. It's quite so manly with cardboard, it's quite so manly to be home with sick kids, and it's quite so manly to be in the health center. My clear belief is that men would like to be even more men in these and many other areas. On the other hand, men are a little higher than men when it comes to taking care of their own health. Men are a little higher than men when you look at the declines from further education, and men are definitely too many men when it comes to power and crime. Men should be a little smaller. Traditionally, gender equality in Norway is about women and equal pay, women and economic self-employment, women and power and women's fight against oppression and violence. It has, and is still, important struggles, but equality is something more. Gender equality is also a struggle for boys, men and fathers. Today, we know that boys and men have less time with their own children than women, are more victims of accidents, are over-represented in crime statistics, and fall more frequently from in continuing education. We want to do something about that. That's what we're invited to decide. There is a joint committee that is pleased that the Government has submitted the message. The extent to which different interventions and instruments are supported varies slightly. I'm sure that the individual party will do the right thing for it on its own. From the Labour Party's side, we unquestionably support all the strategies, actions and instruments that the Government is calling for. In the same way as it has been important to define and specify the objectives and requirements of the women's struggle, it is important also for men. We need our own strategies aimed at men, whether it concerns continuing education, crime or health. And just as gender quotas and earmarking are important for important women's struggles, so is the case for important human struggles. Let me take one example: 20 years ago, there were only every 233 children who experienced that father took leave in connection with his birth. Today, most fathers take such leave. We're on the right track, but there's still a lot to do. Fathers take out only 10 pst. of the total number of parental days per year. In Sweden and Denmark, they receive 22 and 33 pst respectively. of the days. When Jens Stoltenberg led the Mannsrolle Selection 20 years ago, it was determined that there was a need for an own quota for men. It was set to three weeks. He's been working. Now we've expanded him. From July 1st, ten weeks will become ear-marked feathers. And in the message we say that the paper commission should expand further, to 14 weeks. We know that ear markings are needed to change gender-based choices. Why is earmarking correct? Yes, because it requires fathers. This part becomes simpler and easier to attend to. The second is that the employers who my fathers think need to get back to work first, and that it is the world's most natural thing to fathers work overtime while mothers reduce working hours. And the last thing: it forces in many contexts mothers to let go a little bit, let dad take responsibility, let go of fathers. This is why it helps to change gender-based choices, including in other areas. Today, there is a fundamental injustice in our system. Fathers' rights to leave are linked to mothers' participation. If we had turned the principle on our head, it would, of course, have become rascal. I don't think anyone can imagine that new mothers would only get leave of absence if their father had been in work the last months before birth. That's the way it is for men today. You have the right to a father's allowance, not based on the fact that they have contributed to the labour market, but based on whether or not your mother has done so. That's why it's so important for the Government to work for a simplified and equalized system, so that all fathers who have set up the right to a father's allowance will get it. In the name of equality, it's hard to defend something else. This message contains thorough analysis, with strategies and actions in a range of areas that are relevant to men and equality, and that are far broader than what I have been able to access in this article. Others from the Workers' Party will enter other parts of the message, and we'll end up completely with the message as it's submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1080	Is this message going to be a milestone for equality in Norway? Will it mean much to the human role, to men's rights? Nope, here's a lot of talk and little concrete things. The Progress Party has long argued that the public gender equality work that has taken place since the 1970s has been on the wrong footing and that the enterprises in this field must therefore be relocated. We believe that the submitted Storing Message demonstrates to a large extent that we have been right. It can be seen that the policies that have been pursued have had little positive impact on development and have actually created a new ‘tape group’, namely men. The main principle of gender equality and family policy in the Progress Party is that we have set out that there should be no requirement for special measures and, in particular, the protection of laws and/or representations based only on gender. So we want a law that doesn't discriminate, we want equal rights and equal treatment on the public side, and we say a clear no to gender quotas. The Progress Party believes that an individual who has been given a job or position because of his or her gender – and not because of his or her qualifications – is downgraded both by himself and by society. Although we believe that the message is a blow in the air, we try to address some of the issues in our comments and suggestions: the right of any child to know with certainty who are their biological parents. This means that we will go against any restriction in existing rights to DNA testing to detect the right hazard. The good and comprehensive rights of today’s Norway for DNA testing are to ensure the security of identity, association, inheritance, organ donation or heritable diseases. We also note that the Communication proposes that the State should start cooperation with the LNU in order to assess measures aimed at equalising gender differences in the voluntary sector. Here you're on wild roads. We believe that the voluntary sector should not be used as a policy instrument to achieve policy objectives for it at all times. We are also critical of the use of the cultural school bag in the government's sex struggle. As a father of a boy of almost 16 months, who goes to a private kindergarten with almost half the male and good-looking employees, I have no problem seeing the importance of more male employees in school and kindergarten. But I believe that it is not the state that is going to interfere in the recruitment of kindergartens. It is the individual activity that must have this as a focus in its recruitment work because it benefits the product they provide. At the same time, of course, it is also important that higher education institutions take over this field and have a focus in their marketing to male applicants to tell them how great these jobs are. Of course, the progress party wants a sex-mixed work life where we have male kindergarten staff, male teachers and nurses, and where we have female craftsmen, engineers, etc. But we'll let the natural adaptation happen over time. For years, politicians have had a lot to do with this, but young people still have a great deal of tradition. This shows that state decisions in this context are being taken in the air. We also take seriously the fact that some women's girls are less paid than typical people's professions. But unlike the government parties, we do not talk so much about it in the Progress Party. Instead, we want to do something about it – right away. That is why our parliamentary leader, Siv Jensen, has also put forward a proposal in the Stortinget saying that this must be resolved in the spring wage settlement – Document No. 8:99 for 2008-2009, on securing increased wages and salaries in women’sdominated low-wage workers and on changes in working-time arrangements. Another important issue for equality where the Government has not delivered is the fact that it is very unfortunate that not all fathers have the right to cardboard – all fathers need to be granted self-permitting rights as soon as possible. Finally, perhaps the most important gender equality issue for men in modern Norway is the Progress Party alone. We believe it is absolutely central that children grow up with good and regular contact with both parents. There is now an overwhelming majority of parents who believe that if there were to be a breakup, their own children should live about the same amount with each of them. We believe that this development is clearly positive, and it shows a broad dissension about the view of the Progress Party and the view that we have had for many years that the main rule in the event of a break in life must be shared care and residence. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1112	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1115	Norwegian men are good – they are good at taking responsibility for their own children and taking part in the job at home. You deserve a big message. SV is pleased that this government has promoted a big message about men, roles and equality. It is historic, and as I said it is deserved. This places Norway and equality on the map. Norway has in many ways gone a long way in gender equality, but there is still a long way to go. The gender equality struggle has been primarily about women and their struggle for economic independence, equal pay for equal work, full child care coverage, power distribution and the fight against oppression and violence. This has been – and is still – important areas for further work, but gender equality is about both gender opportunities and not least rights. Men have challenges other than women. They have less time with their own children, they are more at risk of accidents, they are overrepresented in crime statistics and more often fall out of high school. Equality between women and men is about getting a fair distribution of care, responsibility and power. If this is to happen, women must give up their primary responsibility at home, and it will also be important to share the parental leave and responsibility for children. The Communication addresses a broad range of gender challenges in the field of gender equality and promotes action and instruments to improve gender equality. The communication also collects knowledge-based material and data on men and the role of men. It is a great challenge for me to bring forward the main areas of the message in five minutes. But I would like to stress that what I think is most important in the message is that we have had a committed public debate on men and their roles and challenges in a modern society. The communication has also led men to engage and discuss their role in different settings, such as: The Mannspanel, established in 2007. Men now demand the right to be with their children – which is extremely important – and to assume their responsibilities. It's very, very good. It is central that the individual boy and girl throughout growth have equal opportunities to exploit their abilities and resources, regardless of gender, function, ethnic origin and other background factors. SV believes that the work of the Government on equal opportunities in kindergarten and initial training is of particular importance. There needs to be a better gender balance both in educational choices and among employees in this sector. There is a clear need for more knowledge about how boys are doing both in kindergarten and in school, and we strongly support the fact that more research is being done on this. There is a great need for more male employees in schools and kindergartens, and each enterprise must have this as its main field of work in the field of recruitment. At the same time, it is important that the higher education institutions that train the different groups in these fields focus on marketing to male applicants. The government is now getting more knowledge of the reasons for gender differences in learning outcomes, and in this context there will be a big message from the Ministry of Knowledge on competence for the future. Norway has the sexiest labour market in Europe. It is serious, because the consequences of the gender-based labour market are major pay differences between men and women. There is evidence that the pay gap follows the sex-shared labour market. Where the proportion of women is high, wages are low. When you see the whole labour market as a whole, the overall pay gap between men and women is 15 p.m., and that's what it's been for the last decade. I would like to stress the importance of doing something about the gender-based labour market and the gender-based challenges of equal pay – that is absolutely necessary. Equal pay is a question of justice. If we achieve a better gender pay balance, the leave sharing will also be smoother, and families can make freer choices in terms of job sharing. Finally, SV supports the Government's efforts to extend the scope of the Equality Act on Special Treatment for Men to cover other sectors in which men are underrepresented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1148	The treatment of this message is likely to challenge – with the right point of view – what should be the limits of policy. As a politician, it is important to have a clear relationship with when politics is a necessary tool to ensure that society evolves to the best of the individual and of the different communities we are part of. In my opinion, this message is entirely in the border country by what I believe politicians should have an opinion and do something about it. An open and voiced democratic society must be marked by a great degree of freedom for people to live their lives as they themselves believe is best for themselves, a society with a diversity of attitudes and views, a living and open debate in which the people, through elections, ask politicians to act – not a society with an ambitious state that, through money or rules, will put a tight lead on how people should set up their lives. Lack of equality and lack of opportunities may be due to the fact that the law is discriminatory. We can do something about this from a political point of view. However, when discrimination is explained by more socio-culturally-created attitudes and norms in society in general, the challenge begins to set policy boundaries. As I see it, there are great opportunities to change norms and redefine gender roles in society, also through public debate and commitment, through the use of knowledge about the context of society and by fighting new systems in working and organisational life, but based on the debate in civil society. The formidable efforts of the women's movement in the 1960s and 1970s and the results of the women's struggle show this in many ways. I read out of this message a great optimism about equality. It is suggested that men should be more involved in child care, especially for the very least. They need to take a greater part of their homework and get rid of women in the workplace. Of course, I fully agree with that. Equally, I think it is problematic to make this a political decision, that is, a purely political one. For the right, the family is an important private zone that must have room and great integrity. We therefore believe that family policy must be given the greatest possible freedom of choice and that each family must be able to make arrangements as it sees fit. There must simply be a kind of filter for policies in the doorway of the home, where only basic rules in relation to criminal law and other key themes escape. In the opinion of the Right, who is going to pick up the nursery should not mean anything about it. Once the human perspective has been drawn up, it must be important to address the opportunities that politicians have for removing obstacles that lie in the ability of men to choose and succeed in key areas, such as care for their own children, school, education and working life. I am thinking of the external framework such as grant schemes and legislation. Then there are in particular two fields I choose to draw out. The right considers that men should be able to enjoy equal rights to parental leave as far as women are concerned. So we want to give all fathers the right to take out the birth rate regardless of their mother's work. This is a political task. It's a matter of doing something about it. Another major challenge that can be addressed by political decisions is that boys later fall through school. We are committed to actively working to ensure that boys actually have equal opportunities to pursue a course of education with good results in school. The social-democratic single school, with little focus on knowledge and learning, has obviously seemed to hit boys specifically. Guys find themselves less comfortable in a school where you put your own learning responsibility on students and more emphasis on who you are than what you can, and where you're going to be more independent. This has been taken into account by the Right through increased focus on subjects and by defining knowledge objectives for the training through the Knowledge Lift. In dealing with the voluntary notification, the right has been clear that the voluntary sector should not be an instrument of government policy. The Minister of Culture has spent a lot of time stressing the independence of the sector, but when the Government now decides to make a political decision against LNU to make them work to balance gender differences in the voluntary sector, it would be interesting to know who took the initiative. Is it the Government or is it the LNU? Is this enough a good intention to legitimise that the state should govern the priorities of values in the voluntary sector? For the right, this is something that volunteering can do for itself – an important debate for civil society can take place at all levels, regardless of state interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1169	The President assumes that the representative will take up the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1172	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1177	The representative of Olemic Thommess has then addressed that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1181	There are many important themes that will be addressed in the human message that the Government has launched. Norway has come a long way in gender equality in many areas, especially when we look at very many other countries. There are countries where many girls don't get education, and countries where the most dangerous thing for a woman is to give birth. Internationally, there is a great deal of work that needs to be done to ensure women’s rights and to focus on the role of men. At the same time, there is a lot of important work left in Norway to get an even more equal society. It's a pleasure to see how much we can offer to other countries internationally through the Women's Convention and themes at various conferences in New York under the auspices of the United Nations, where it has been focused on human roles, and where Norway actually has a lot to contribute. It's very happy. We have a challenge with gender-shared labour market in Norway. It is an important goal to get a more gender-based working life. Sexually divided working life contributes to the reproduction of traditional gender roles and to the slowing down of work on equality between women and men. Prejudice about typical human and female occupations can lead to young people's well-off occupations that they could be very well equipped for. The most serious consequence of the gender-based labour market is the high pay gap between men and women. There is evidence that the pay gap follows the sex-shared labour market. Equal pay is primarily a matter of justice. But equal pay is also important for men in gender equality. With equal pay, the family will be able to make freer choices. Thus, the husband can choose more leave, part time, cash support, etc. as easily as a woman. When it comes to wages and salaries, the social partners have a significant responsibility to correct pay discrimination between women and men. The Christian People's Party recommends that the social partners set aside funds for combined low-wage and women's pots in wage negotiations. But we also believe that the government has a responsibility. I refer to the budgetary procedure in which we put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote an equal pay obligatory plan.’ And... ‘The Government asks the Government to contribute to measures for women-dominated public sector educational groups, in line with the recommendations of the Equal pay Commission.’ Here we are impatient. I hope the government will do something concrete. It is important that fathers have a good time with their children. Parental allowances are particularly important because the gender distribution in parental leave often sees the standard for the distribution of work between parents later in life. Self-sustaining dishes for all fathers are decisive to change traditional role patterns in the family. At the same time, it turns out that there is less living break among couples who share in care chores. We are strongly critical of the fact that the Government has not set out to ensure that fathers have an independent right to ignite the right to leave. Many fathers find it discriminatory that they do not have the same dishes as mothers to be home with their children if their mother has not been over 50 pst. active before having a child. This is unacceptable. The Christian People's Party wants a new, extended leave arrangement, where one should have the possibility of three and a half months in addition to the parental leave that is today, but where one can distribute it completely until the child is ten years old. It will give some families more time by allowing them to take single weeks together, because many people also experience a time lag when they're done with the infant phase. A challenge that is central is selected in close relationships. In order to reduce the use of violence, measures aimed specifically at men are essential. One has to do preventive work in elementary schools and in continuing school and stagnation work among men, and the Christian People's Party has agreed that an arrangement of the relationship between the commercial authority and elective restraints and actions, especially in boys and men, is necessary. It is important to put in place a nationwide treatment and assistance provision for men who are elective. Men in power must be given a treatment offer so that they can learn to master the urge to exercise power. That is why the Christian People's Party was involved in taking the initiative on the proposal that is now being put forward in the vote: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a treatment offer for men who commit violence against women and children is made available in all counties.’ I've visited a lot of crisis centers. It is so important that the men who strike break the spiral of power. Then we don't think we have a few places to offer. We have to get it around all the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1222	In order to achieve real equality, it is not possible to view only the situation of women unilaterally. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government has provided a big message about men, roles and equality. Even if Norway comes out better than many other countries when it comes to gender equality issues such as pay, parental leave and women in rented positions, the job is still not done. Women still tend less than men, and they own less. Differences in age and education do not explain this. Statistics show that the main explanations are childbirth and a gender-based labour market. It is when women are at home with young children that the pay gap arises. It's the mother who takes the longest parental leave, and who works part-time. When Mother takes primary responsibility at home, Dad can work overtime. That's when he pulls off the payroll. I therefore believe that the distribution of parental leave is a particularly important concept of equality. The challenges men and women face when it comes to equality are not the same, but they are related. The number of men taking parental leave above the parental quota is increasing, but still low. In recent years, only 13-14 pst. by fathers taking more than eight weeks. Although Father wants to take parental leave, he often encounters opposition from both mother and employer. Therefore, the Center Party believes that it is important to facilitate that fathers can take an active part in the everyday life of the newborn child. That's why we're in favour of a third of the parental leave, where dad has to take at least one third. We're also in favour of fathers having independent rights of custody. What we think is good equality policy – both for women and men. The report on human roles and gender equality focuses on a range of areas where men are more exposed than women – both in terms of family, lifestyle, health, schooling and choice. It's too extensive to go into this here, but I'd like to highlight a theme that rarely gets addressed in the public debate: boys and men who are subjected to power and sexual abuse. The news of the crash indicates that about the same number of men as women are exposed to party elections. Numbers from the Center for Sexually Abused Men show that more than a quarter of those visiting the Centre report that the attacker is a woman. They're afraid not to be trusted, and the threshold for seeking help is particularly high. It is important that these are captured by the treatment system, and that we get more knowledge and research on the topic. The theme of men, roles and equality is versatile and important. Men and women do not have equal rights in all areas. In some areas, human rights and opportunities must also be strengthened. Better rights for men contribute to full equality between the sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1239	We in the Left think it's really great that the Government comes with a human message, sail if we might have expected that when so many great men are used in the investigation and processing, maybe you had a little more concrete suggestions on what to do. Fighting for equality and changing attitudes takes a long time. It knows a 125-year-old party that has fought for everything from women's right to vote for the rights we work with today. What I think is important from a human perspective is that much of the gender equality struggle has gone into women's struggle to get into men's monopoly, while very little attention has been paid to women's ability to take men into their monopoly. Today's fight is about letting men into women's monopoly. I've heard women sit and discuss how much incredibly stupid things the new male employee in kindergarten does. Nor is it easy to break through the women's community in the nursery school classroom, where the only male in a college often feels that he should have the job as a police officer every time something becomes difficult in the schoolyard. I think it is important to tackle this also in the public debate, because this has been a women's arena that has not had status, but if we are to be able to achieve equality, there must be an arena where both sexes exist. So the left has a proposal that I would like to address, which goes into a more flexible view of parental leave. One is that we want to ensure a third between mother and father and an optional part, but we also want greater flexibility in the exercise of parental leave. The reason is that we know that a lot of men think it's much more rewarding to be with a two-year-old than it is to be with a little baby, because you feel that you can give more feedback to a little two-year-old than you can do to a little baby. The second is that when you plan to have children today, it happens more and more when it suits your mother's career. You aim a lot more at your mother's career than at your father's career. That, I think, leads fathers to take out less leave than they could have really done, because it's bad right then. It should be done that a married couple should have exactly the same career. Then a greater flexibility in the leave could have led to fathers being able to take out more. Then you could take out a maternity leave that fits when it's a little baby, and moms communicate best with the tiny little ones, while dad can take his leave when it's better for his career. It had the left fixation in the last period, and we're also going to fight for that in the coming period. Then I wanted to address the evil that lies below, and that lies in a proposal to which we are co-sponsored, linked to this with violence. Yesterday, we had the 81st of our partners killed over the last few years in Norway. This is the glory drop of our culture. This is the bad way of our culture to deal with the breakup of our lives. This is one of the challenges we have to address in relation to gender-related violence. I think it's important to take this seriously and have a proper review of it. If I'm going to take another part of this, it's quite right what's said in terms of assaults against men also in relationships, and sexual assaults against men. I think we've created a lot of structures that fit women, and women have been helped by. But I also think that we're going to think about how men deal with crises, can teach us women something, that it's not just the other way. I think we might, for example. have come into a system where we make a sacrificial mindset that makes it sometimes more difficult to get out of the problems, and that perhaps some of the ways in which men have learned to deal with problems, through experience in the centers we have, may be something that we women can learn from. But then I think we should dry out talking about these issues, because these are issues that are difficult to talk about, and that touch an honor concept that is closely related to our culture, sail if we rarely use the word "honor" to mention this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1252	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1255	I think the representative Thommessen in his post was in the middle of something important. There are limits to what should be regulated politically. It is not that you can enter Norwegian homes in a human message and say how Norwegian men and women should live their lives. But as politicians, we cannot ignore the fact that when we have had a family policy for many years that has not helped women to work, birth rates have fallen. We cannot ignore the fact that couples who share the work at home differ less, that they have more children, and that couples who are good at sharing the work experience less partner violence. That is why I think it is important both that we have a public discussion about this and that we make political proposals in line with the reality we see. The reality we see is that several studies, Norwegian and European, show that men who want to take responsibility for their children are more discriminated against in the labour market than women. Thus, the father quota has granted Norwegian men a right to take care of their children, a right that is now used so to say by all who have earned it. We have seen formidable changes in the Norwegian human role in recent years. No one takes more responsibility at home than Norwegian men. It makes Norwegian women work most and give birth most throughout Europe if we combine those statistics. I agree with the representative Skei Grande on a lot of what she says, except this with the possibility of planning children. I am a little uncertain as to whether it is possible to plan to the extent she explains. But I'm very concerned about what she's doing: a discussion about how women are good at keeping men outside their arenas. In the public discussion about quotaing to governors, we're talking about a glass ceiling. The women don't get up, and they don't know exactly why. In many female-dominated professions, there are many invisible glass walls, many unwritten rules that make it difficult for men to work in these professions. That's why we need an active recruitment policy. That's why we need municipalities that go ahead. And the experience we have from recruiting women to many people's professions, establishing women's groups, creating a community between the women who are there, we're now using to recruit more men to schools and kindergartens. What I think is a little strange in this discussion is that the Progress Party, which is basically against quotaing, argues for the quotaing of men to women-dominated professions – a funny priority when you are basically against quotaing. So I'm concerned about how the school largely makes the boys not doing so well. I think it's related to the fact that we have a lot of female teachers, and that the boys are little seen. This is not a Norwegian phenomenon that points back to the single school. This is a European – a Western – phenomenon that we see in many countries. That is why I want a conscious policy in relation to the fact that the boys' background of experience is to be seen more closely in school and that we are to have active recruitment strategies for men both in kindergarten and in school. The representative of Molvær Grimstad was involved in a nationwide offer to violent perpetrators. We're also very concerned about that. That's why we're proud to have facilitated this during this period. It's never been a bigger offer to violent people. What's new in what we've done in the last few years is to make it easier for the family, the children, to get a better offer for the violent. We propose a new crisis-centre legislation that obliges municipalities not only to deal with crisis-centre homes and housing for the protection of women at risk of violence, but also to men at risk of violence. There are many men who need protection. We're adding up to a significantly increased spring rate in this message, 14 weeks. I note that the right in the setting is a bit famished. In some areas they sign up with the Advance Party and say that this is something each family should sort out in itself. I also notice that the Progress Party is to have an independent right to benefit from the feather quota, but that you are actually against a feather quota – a somewhat incomprehensible policy. I believe that this is a fantastic norm that gives fathers rights in relation to their employers. This has led Norwegian men to be among those in the world who take the most responsibility at home. I'll end by saying that I think we need a public discussion about gender equality. It is an instrument for women too to go further in their gender equality struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1272	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1275	The misconceptions of the Council of State from the point of view of the Advancement Party, she may, if she reads a little more carefully in the comments, clarify. I'm not going to take these, but instead notice that the government is very good with words, with promises, with assessments, with investigations and that kind of thing, but when it comes to action, it's not very impressive. One area, of course, is Dad's rights. Another area is equal pay. The government can do something about these matters before the summer, if it wants to. Parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, has tabled a proposal to ensure increased pay in women's dominated low-wage workers. It's like there's a red-green majority that can do something about this before summer. My question to the Council of State is, Why has this not been addressed earlier than now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1282	I do not know if the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has read the position of the Equal pay Commission. It is very clearly underlined that this is a model, but to achieve a comprehensive cooperation for equal pay, it must be done in cooperation with the social partners. We want to make that right. We want a cooperation that not only includes equal pay as the Equal pay Commission defines it, because it will only target women in the public sector with a certain level of education. We believe that an equal pay promise must be wider, that it must be about unskilled women, that it must be about women with professional letters – and such cooperation we want to facilitate in cooperation with the social partners and in line with the position of the Equal pay Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1287	To follow up on the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen and equal pay, it is true that it is a long time since the Equal Pay Commission was finished, and the Government has had enough time to do something about this. Kristin Halvorsen has said – in the election campaign well – that she wants an equal pay pot. So I don't understand the reason for the government to spend so long on this. When you know that a lot of people have a strong commitment to get it, you could get a result. It's the one. The second thing I wanted to say is to deal with conflicts. Many people need help dealing with conflicts, and what worries me is that a lot of family protection offices now announce that they might have to shut down and shut down. Couples who call and ask for help will hear that they can come back in August. We're going to help people, and we know that equality is important in society too, then one will prevent people from having so many major conflicts that they may leave each other – even if in a single case, the only solution is for a family. But it's about getting help getting through the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1294	I agree that family protection offices are often the key to a more peaceful solution when there has been a divorce. That is why we included in the previous budget an increase in family protection, which had not been done since it came under state reform. It has provided the basis for strengthening in some areas. I see absolutely that there is a need for more funds for family protection, but that is what we will do with the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1299	In extending my first question, I want to say that I fully understand that things have to be done in cooperation with the social partners. But it's not that women are less paid than men, is a new issue. It is possible that it is new to the Council of State, but at least it is not new to us other members of the family committee. It is actually the case that most underpaid women work for the municipality and state, i.e. in the public sector, and there is a great deal of influence on the state, the Stortinget and the government. There's only two possible explanations why the government won't do anything about this. One is that you cynically want to use this as a campaign case. The second is that you didn't intend to do anything about it at all. I mean, you lie directly. As you've had more than three years on this, I fear the latter is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1305	Here comes a series of accusations. The Equal Opportunities Commission presented its position just over a year ago. In the meantime, we've had an interim settlement. It has never been proposed, nor by the Equal pay Commission, that this should be adopted by the State independently of discussions with the social partners. Unlike the Progress Party, we want strong employee organisations. We don't want people to negotiate their wages themselves. We believe that we are going to make an equal pay and a low pay promise, we are going to do it in cooperation with the social partners, and we're going to facilitate it at the next main settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1310	The next replicator is May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. Ulf Erik Knudsen has also asked for a line, but he has had two lines and has no access to any more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1313	There's so many things you might want to talk about when it comes to this important topic. If I go back to the problem of violence and the proposal that one should receive a treatment offer in all states, it is right that the Council of State says that there has been a better offer today, and men who need treatment to change their behaviour have gained more focus and attention. And that's very good. But then I think it's important that you get an offer in every state, so that people don't travel from Northland to Austland – that we get an offer that's in the state, if it's not permanent there. It's the one. And when it comes to the couples who are facing challenges, I sincerely hoped that the government had brought more money for family protection in the revised budget. Even if there are more funds available for the current year, there are a lot of valiant options that have not been filled. Also, as a result of the financial crisis, there is an increase in family protection. And one of the best, most preventative things we can do, is give help before it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1322	I note that the representative wants increased family protection appropriations. I also note that she supports the Government's work on building a nationwide offer for violent people. And both more money for family protection and expanding offers across the country for violent people is something we've done in this period, unlike what happened in the previous period. We're going to move on, but I think the representative could now acknowledge that when it comes to expanding a nationwide offer to violent people, no one has done more than this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1327	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1332	The message invites debate on many exciting and important themes. I intend to focus on men and violence. It is important to establish first that the vast majority of men do not practice or experience violence, but it is a poor consolation for the men and women who become victims of violence – victims of violence who do not experience the freedom of choice that the Advance Party and the Right talk so much about. We know that almost all violence in society is committed by men. About 90 pst. of the registered offences concerning life, body and health, are the notified man. When it comes to killings, sexual offences and violence of a gross nature in close relationships, is 90 pst. by the victims of women. You can say, a little bit simplified, that the violence that happens out in public space is committed by men against men, while the violence that is more hidden is largely committed by men against women. Why is that so? Guys have been told over the years that beating is not a solution in a conflict situation. In the cases where men beat men, there are two clear moves that go again. First of all, there is this violence that you see to a large extent in the public space, like in connection with partying in the city. Secondly, young men are overrepresented in these statistics. Research is clear that alcohol is a trigger for violence, but it cannot explain the causes and gender differences. Even if you have learned that violence does not solve conflicts, you are afraid of what can be associated with cowardice, weakness, and incorruption. Unfortunately, our young men get into buckets and buckets of role models that beat and sort out by means of violence, both through toys and movies. It's already starting with Disney Channel. Later, there are movies where the hero resorts to violence, often from reality, of the kind of "Max Manus", or epic dramas like "Braveheart" – that is, a massive influence that says something different than what you actually learn in school. Is this one of the reasons why we see a possible flaw in the masculine identity? What about violence in close relationships? We know that the gross violence that affects women. Unfortunately, as late as yesterday, we got an example of killing two women committed by a man in close contact. Violence against women is not considered positive for the masculine identity, either among men in general or in films. What these men achieve is control, to gain their will, to establish – in the proper sense of the word – their overall rank in the relationship. In the past it was thought that it was the patriarchs, men with power otherwise, who struck. We don't know that right now. They're the ones who are helpless, the ones who can't communicate, who beat. If we are to succeed in doing something about this, men must take much more responsibility and commit themselves. If we are to succeed in this, we can no longer silently see that many of our fellow brothers practice violence. If we're to succeed in this, we can no longer accept the light of suspicion thrown at us just because we are men.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1355	It is a very important message that is being addressed here today, as equality clearly concerns both sexes. I also think it is unlikely that through this we want to do something about the gender-based labour market. I am quite sure that if we are to achieve equality in society, we need to change when it comes to the gender-based labour market. In addition, I think our young people should be allowed to choose a profession according to their abilities and wishes, not according to tradition and gender. For this reason, I very much agree with the Committee: I think it is very good what they say that prejudice to typical women's and men's organisations can lead to young people's well-off occupations for which they could actually be very well-qualified, and that our working life will not be able to make full use of the resources. Gender equality research shows that working life actually contributes to slowing down gender equality, among other things. because we don't get a more even distribution between the sexes in the different industries. Then it's very funny for me to tell you that the national assembly of the Labour Party just adopted clear wording on what we actually want to do with the gender-based labour market. We decided that we would set up a program in the school to achieve less gender-based challenge choices, among other things. through better professional advice. It's clear that if we're going to make any changes, we're going to have to start at the high school. Our students are clearly entitled to proper professional information and that the professional information provided has a conscious relationship with the sex-shared labour market. We have said that we want to counteract the gender-based labour market with quotas and other challenges, additions and rental measures. We know that's important. We know it works. We know that by setting clear requirements we have got 40 pst. girls entering the ASA regime. It's important. It is also good that we encourage more men to enter the care profession. So we say something about deliberately building the environment around the underrepresented gender at right-wing institutions and continuing schools that are traditionally gender-divided. Because that's how searching an untraditional becomes often a very lonely one. Then one of the things that is necessary is to build the environment around those who have chosen untraditionally. I was going to give an example, but I see that time is up. I ask you to get the word again, and I'll give you a very good example of what can be done to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1366	I just want to support those who have been up and talked about men being subjected to violence. It's also very underreported that little boys are exposed to sexual assault. I think it's very important, even with the developments we're seeing about girl violence, that we're researching violence and taking this seriously, so we can do something about it and reverse the negative development. Then I can't stop saying that if we're going to get a less gender-based labour market, the cash support has to go away. Cash support has led men with children to work more overtime than men without children, and women to work more part-time. It has stopped the whole development of equality that we have introduced cash support. It just has to go away. Then I would also like to say that I am very happy that we are now so clearly from the Government that we are going to expand the paper commission, and that we are going to facilitate a working life and a family life that makes both of them equal opportunities to take responsibility and care for their children and to be active in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1375	There was something in my reply card exchange with the Council of State that, because of the formal rules, was hanging a little in the air. What I really wanted to ask the Council of State was whether she is afraid to go out with the social partners and get complaints from the Nursing Association if she, for example, is. before the summer holiday, we are now going to raise the salary of nurses in Norway by 50 000 kroner, while at the same time compensating municipalities and state enterprises in this area. I think I can guarantee the Council of State that it's not going to be a single protest from the nurses at such a play-out from the Council of State. The Council of State knows that, and then it has to be about the will and ability to solve the problem, and not that you have to keep pushing ahead with the formal rules on how to deal with issues with the social partners. So it was the representative of Breen who made me jump a little bit in the chair when he said that we have a gross development of violence in society, among other things. Because of films like 'Braveheart' and 'Max Manus', and Disney Channel, it was just before I passed out. There is a lot of research on the impact of violence from films and games, and none of the international research is clear about this. It would be better to look at some other social areas, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. that for years now, the Red-Green government has fed the police hunger, that we have extremely low penalties in Norway, that we have a capital that is suitable for one, two or three police patrols on a Saturday night – that is to say, too little – and that we have received considerable input from other cultures, which have a completely different view of violence from what we have been accustomed to in Norwegian society, both in the case of blind violence on the streets, in the case of violent assaults, and in the case of violence against women in close relations. In general, we know that there is a big problem in many immigrant environments, which also indicates that, as far as I have been informed, all assault violence in Oslo is the foreign culture behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1382	I'm going to continue where I left off, with examples of what can actually be done so that those who are looking for non-traditional subjects don't get so lonely. Then I want to take an example from the Oslo School, where girls in Oslo looking for an electro, car or mechanical subject get an offer to lock into one school, to Secondary Secondary Secondary School, so that they get an environment, and that there will be more girls in the class. In addition, they are offered a ‘take place’ course and, in fact, a tool course. Now I'm talking about girls who are very untraditional, but such a measure could have been nice for boys who want to seek out an untraditional profession, within care, care and health, etc. But the point is that every time is a dependant on the fires, one depends on someone who wants to get involved in it. I thought one had to work more systematically with it so that one gets it in, so that girls and boys, even if a search is untraditional in Sogn and the Fjords, for example, get a similar choice as those looking in Oslo. And then I also want to tell you a little bit about another project that LO and NHO have seen going on. This goes on girls, but that kind of project can be transferred to boys in typical girls' subjects. There is a project called “Wives in a Car and Electro”. There have been a good deal of large businesses, including: Siemens, Toyota, etc., and they have a goal of getting 20 pst. girls enter their companies, because they want to recruit from a much wider base. They want to take care of the girls. They want to identify what they need to do to make the girls feel better and come to their places of work. During the survey they saw very clear signs: all the girls were very happy with the profession, it was very good, but otherwise the challenges were about 20 years ago. There were unmatched dresses, unfine posters on the walls, and bad toilet conditions. But the companies that are involved in the project are now taking part and joining in to do something about it. I just want to say it's actually 9 pst. boys in health and care, and that's very good, but there's no more than 3-4 pst. girls on car and electric. Sometimes you can get the impression that if you get two more guys in kindergarten and 40 pst. women in the ASA regime, we have achieved equality. In fact, it's about a lot more, in fact, we have to work a lot, much wider in all occupations and at all levels. The fact that the Progress Party is different isn't very surprising. Even if they have a party leader who is a woman, they are still called the president, and their aim in the programme is to abolish equality laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1395	It was great that I was able to get speed at the representative Knudsen. It doesn't matter if the Progress Party gets a little more involved in this debate, the problem is that they just get involved with the actions that are being launched, and not for anything. I want to go back a little bit to what was my main message in the post, and it wasn't so much that I believe that «Braveheart» and Disney Channel are the main reason why men practice violence. I just said that it could be one of many reasons that lead to a masculine identity crisis for young men. But now leave it. The point is, if we're going to reduce the amount of violence we see, we have to use a number of tools. Today, the Justice Committee has put an end to the last part of the new penal code, where we significantly tighten the penalties for violence and rape, sharpening them by over 30 p.m., so there we have the one answer that the representative of the Progress Party asked for. In addition, we have granted money so that in the course of the year we now get eleven offices that can provide help to men who want to break the spiral of violence. So even if it's not 100 pst. nationwide, we're on the right track. We have also put the police in a much better position to deal with violence in close relationships, with a violent coordinator in all police districts and their own violence teams. We've put down two research projects to look at killings committed in close relationships. But the important thing is, no matter how fast you get your attitude changes. It means a lot that we get to know more about causes, so we have to do more research. It means a lot that the school is starting to talk about sexuality on a broader front, not just like reproduction and protection from gender diseases, but talking about absolute boundaries, talking about what happens in the head of young people, talking about pressure, etc. We have to make the scale and the adverse effects visible in another way. We need to get more knowledge about men who are being assaulted. Then I'll shoot in that we have to be careful to make the victims of abuse victims forever and ever. Being a victim excuses for guilt, but it gives no obligation to be a poor object or a passive object. Victims of violence and assault also have the right to be happy individuals. I could point out a number of other measures when you started talking about the police, but I think we've had that debate many enough times in this room, so I'll let it go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1407	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen believes that no one will protest if the government tomorrow puts NOK 15 billion into a special form of equal pay. Then I can promise the representative that if we had done it outside the interim, outside the main settlement, there would have been protests from the Union, the YS, the academics, the LO, the NHO and HSH, simply because the model to choose for an equal pay scheme should be negotiated with the parties. In the proposal based on the Equal pay Commission, it is only the professions where there are two thirds of women who are to be counted on, but only in each sector. This means that in the Equal pay Commission's proposal for arrangements, it is not a red ear for maids, assistant nurses, nursery workers, or those who work at the SFO. First of all, I think we need to have a more comprehensive equal pay scheme. Secondly, I am absolutely convinced that if we put forward a scheme that only gives money to parts of Unio's membership, and withholds the rest, there will be quite large protests from the Union as a group. It's e.g. Uncleared in the Equal Pay Commission’s approach, which assumes that there are two thirds of women in order to obtain money from the pot. If you look at teachers as such, there are two-thirds of women in primary school. There are no corresponding numbers in higher education. If we put forward a scheme that only gives elementary school teachers a paycheck, but that doesn't give anything to high school teachers because there aren't two thirds of women, without the teachers' organizations participating in this negotiation, I think there can be quite a lot of protest. It would be quite unique in the Norwegian context and break all the principles of wage formation if the Government were to dictate this beyond any settlement. If the representative remembers when the teachers got a paylift, it happened under our government. We did that by getting the teachers to raise their salary, while other groups promised that they would not increase their salary accordingly. It was a negotiated, agreed arrangement. If we are to achieve a comprehensive equal pay and low pay gap in the coming years, then the structure, the device, the details, the profile must be negotiated in cooperation with the parties. We do not believe that this is best done through individual wage formation, that each woman should negotiate her salary, as the Progress Party believes. We believe in a collective wage formation where we negotiate between the parties, but it is a scheme that the Progress Party has traditionally opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1436	Summer can be really hot this year. In Europe, strikes and social unrest are expected as more and more people lose their jobs. In Spain, the unemployment rate is approaching 20 pst. Iceland is the setting of the world's largest banking crisis, in relation to the size of the economy, and many Icelandics are now considering moving away from the country to get work. Fortunately, the situation is not so dramatic in Norway. But also here, the financial crisis will increasingly affect ordinary people. Investment in industry is falling, exports are falling, and oil investments are flattening out. This also makes the housing market nervous, which in turn directly affects the construction industry. But the unemployment score. By the end of April, there were 72,700 persons registered entirely at Nav. Compared to April last year, there are 34 000 more unemployed, i.e. an increase of 88 pst. Unemployment is increasing most in construction and in industry. This is reflected in the strong increase in male unemployment. Nearly three out of ten unemployed are men with a background from construction and industry – all according to Nav. Seasonally adjusted figures show that there have been 4,900 more unemployed in the last month. The unemployment rate is 2.8 pst. by the labour force. There will be more permitting. At the end of April, 18 300 people are on leave. There's almost eight times as many lay-offs as at the same time last year. 11,000 of these are licensed on a full-time basis. Workless frames in all states. Compared to April last year, the unemployment rate in Uppland has increased by 138 pst. In Sogn and Fjordane and Vestfold, unemployment increases by 122 pst. The solution was highest in Finnmark with 4 pst, then Oslo and Telemark with 3.4 pst. Krisa is spreading to new industries. On Friday of the previous week, Bergen’s Official Journal had a large and alarming notice of failing oil investments. With today's oil price, oil investments will fall by dramatic 30-40 pst. Next year, my experts. The oil engineers in the West already notice the changes. If oil prices stay over time, the consequences for many jobs in the West will be very dramatic. The Christian People's Party has warned against these developments. We were, in fact, the only party on the Stortinget that, within the rule of action, led to an increase in the use of oil money for an action package against unemployment, in connection with the state budget last fall. Our package contained SEK 4.8 billion to go to construction and maintenance of roads, railways, schools, hospitals, etc. We also proposed better business depreciation rules. Of course, we were disappointed that the government party did not vote for our proposal, but chose to postpone the package of measures by the end of January. That being said, I would say that Norwegian government powers have done a great deal to deal with the financial crisis. The government's package of measures at the end of January came late, but she came well. To a large extent, the package coincided with the Christian People's Party's proposals from the state budget. The other packages that have been aimed at the financial sector have, in our opinion, been reasonably good. We also found that the Governor of the Central Bank Svein Gedrem hastened to put in place powerful monetary policy instruments. Norway's bank's interest rate is now down to 1.5 pst., and it's cut by 4.25 percentage points since the top last year. It means a powerful stimulus to the economy. There's a sign of how dramatic the downturn is. In this interpellation, I would like to pay particular attention to the industry, especially the industry in places where there are few other possibilities for work, and/or where strong corner stone companies are irreplaceable provisions for other businesses, because permits and closures are particularly demanding for industrial sites characterised by large corner stone companies. A growing number of these companies are now reporting large liquidity problems. Plastal on Raufoss is bankrupt, and several other corner stone companies have major challenges, including: Hydro Carmine, Hydro Høyanger, Aker Verdal and South Norway Aluminium AS at Husnes. The last company mentioned reduced electrolysis production by 50 pst in less than half a year. One of the two electrolysis halls at Husnes are wired. ‘It is understood that this situation will have serious consequences for those added and for the local environment.’ We will seek to find out schemes so that the load is distributed reasonably. [[...]] This is important in order not to lose competence that has taken decades to build up,” said the managing director of SØRAL in February of this year. On February 25 this year, today's business wrote: "Can be quiet at Stord." This was a comment that the order situation at Aker Stord was very strained. At the end of March, the glad news came about a new assignment, but the father is not over. In particular, the fact that the oil companies are postponing/freezing many new assignments lies as a heavy shadow throughout the whole supply industry. The Christian People's Party is busy that we must be leading were and counteracted the lay-offs and closures of corner stone farms that are central to community construction and value creation throughout the country. The industrial power regime is a central issue for many of these industrial enterprises. In the election campaign before the 2005 election, industrial power was a lovely debate theme, and the red-green promise of a new industrial power regime was many and strong. This created expectations in the industry. Unsurprisingly, the EEA Agreement did not allow for authority-determined power contracts. This was really old news for those who know the facts. For both the governments of Bondevik I and Bondevik II and the government of Stoltenberg I had come to the same conclusion earlier. Therefore, a search for other solutions is needed. For example, the number of cases reported in the U.S. a year ago was such a possibility. She could deal with things differently, and she could give us positive possibilities. But this is history now. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must now put a strong pressure on getting a Norwegian copy of the French consortium model, or implement other measures to ensure that power-intensive industry has a viable framework. To say that it is necessary is a very polite wording. We can take the example of Hydro Aluminium on Karmøy. The community and Hydro believed in the promise of reasonable power in order to be able to bet on a top modern and pure aluminium factory. So this wasn't fulfilled. In addition, there was a financial crisis, and the result seems to be no investment in a new, modern and clean factory. The action packages are good and good, but they are actually only involved in managing general problem settings related to financing and investment. Some get tougher than others. Some tend to be in crisis, while communities like Karmøy become extra powerful, not least after the Karmsund bankruptcy. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the government's tool in business policy is not accurate enough. Thus, we challenge the Government to help with the conversion of new industrial projects, as well as a food and conversion fund available to the municipalities in question. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government should go in with this kind of tailor-made tool to help communities that are the hardest of financial crisis. The question is whether the government will also lead to where and how to counteract the lay-offs and closures of corner stone farms around the country. We ask the question whether the Government has the necessary means to contribute to the transition and to new, lasting jobs in local communities that are being hard hit by the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1482	This is an important debate on a topic that deserves more attention than it currently has. I can assure the representative that the Government is taking the situation very seriously. We have said, and we insist that we are prepared to implement all the measures we think are necessary to meet this financial crisis. We want to do what we can to avoid having unemployment snapped to a high level. Work until all are jobs. 1st@item: inlistbox There is no doubt – and I share the reasoning for the interpellant – that the situation is serious. Nearly every day, there are reports of lay-offs, redundancies and bankruptcies from businesses around the country. Crisis now covers all parts of the world and almost all sectors. The most recent OECD forecasts confirm that the world economy is shrinking faster than previously assumed. There is now a setback for the gross domestic product of developed countries to a total of 3.8 pst. This is not good news for Norwegian companies. We have to assume that almost all industries and all parts of the country will notice the difficult times in the months ahead. Several enterprises have already identified the financial crisis. Let me give you some examples: the price of aluminium is historically low. As a result, 450 people at Hydro's plant in Karmøy became eloquent. In the Houses, SØRAL has had to halve the production, and also in Sunndal production is reduced. When households all over the world buy fewer cars, it is shipping to our automotive industry companies. For example, in a short time, Kongsberg Automatic has had to implement extensive conversion measures in many countries, including Norway. The car industry at Raufoss has also been hit. The examples illustrate that the crisis is global. It will not be solved here in Norway. There's got to be a global effort. Governments around the world have put in place strong measures to try to stabilise the economy. The government has put forward comprehensive measures to remedy the business situation and has received broad support here in the United Kingdom to implement them. It has been essential to restore the functioning of capital markets. The business community has noticed to those degrees what it means when the banks no longer provide finance. The situation has been extremely serious, and companies in Norway continue to experience capital access challenges. What we're at risk is that companies that initially don't have problems still experience projects stranding because the banks can't or will not borrow them any more. Already last October we came as familiar with the first bank package. Later, it was decided to establish two new funds: the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund. The funds have a total capital of DKK 100 billion. Billions have been provided in increased loans and guarantees to Norwegian export industries through Export Finance and GIEK. In addition, we have increased the framework for Innovation Norway, and Innovation Norway’s opportunities to enter larger businesses and large-scale projects have improved. Extensive measures have been taken in relation to the construction sector. Schools must be cleaned, hospitals maintained and roads made safer while creating and securing jobs. As you know, the Norwegian Bank has strongly reduced the interest rate on governance. Such strong interest rate cuts are strong for the Norwegian economy. Among other things, it provides companies with lower interest charges. Weaker heads measured against dollars and euros are beneficial for our export companies. The government's actions, to which the Storting has joined, work. Now we see that quite clearly. Let me give you some examples of this: Innovation Norway believes that Kongsberg Automatic will succeed and have granted 145 million loan applications. kr. There is a lot of money in the Innovation Norway context. This is important support for the company’s activities in both Raufoss, Rollag and Kongsberg. I can also mention that Innovation Norway last week promised 195 million. SEK in loans to the breeding company SalMar in Frøya, EUR 95 million. SEK for part-financing of a top modern equipment park and 100 million. kr to the real estate company to which this is to be carried out. This loan shall contribute to the construction of the world’s most innovative and cost-effective facilities for landing, slaughter and salmon processing. These are good examples of the effectiveness of the measures and of their benefit to large enterprises and large projects. Moelven Use is another example where the measures also appear to work. Before Christmas, employees at Moelven BaudModule went down to three days' work week, and several were fully-married. Now all employees are back to work. Not all jobs can be saved. I think we have to be prepared that there may be a need for state change money, as the interpellant was about, in some communities. One example is the municipality of Høyanger in Sogn and Fjordane, where, as everyone knows, Fundo Wheels was hit hard by the failure of the car industry, which led to the closure of the operation. For a small community such as Høyanger, where unemployment rose explosively in a very short period of time, this is usually a hard blow — for individuals and for the municipality. Therefore, the Government has decided to propose that Høyanger Municipality be given money to exceptional state conversion funds to create new jobs in addition to additional discretionary means. We are also prepared by the Government to consider exceptional state means of conversion to other communities that will be severely affected by the financial crisis. There must be thorough assessments on a case-by-case basis, but we are prepared to do so. At the same time, we have to make sure that we turn to the market in some areas, perhaps in another form. So we have to drive innovation. The measures are working. Nevertheless, no one today can say what the next months and years will be like. That's exactly why it's so important that we now take the right steps. It is quite essential that we manage to take care of the individuals who have lost their jobs or who are at risk of losing their jobs – those who are concerned about whether they can pay their mortgage or have their children on the school leisure system. We must never forget that there are individuals behind every number in unemployment statistics. When jobs are lost, it is difficult for the individual, for the families affected, and for the community. That's also why we've taken and taken important steps related to Nav. The floor has been added new funds in several rounds, which Stortinget has been told to know well. More flexible laying down rules will also make it easier to allocate permits to several workers over longer periods of time. It's been a wish from a lot of companies. From 1 February this year it was possible to receive daily allowances for 52 weeks, compared with the previous 30 weeks. I am pleased that the Stortinget has also supported the Government's proposal to reduce the employer's period from 10 to 5 days from 1 April this year. These are examples of effective and significant actions. For the company Eramet in Sauda, more flexible permitting rules mean that the company can retain valuable labour force until demand and the prices of the ferromangane are hopefully resuming. This also applies to other enterprises, maritime. I believe that the last few months have shown that we keep our word that we have an active industrial policy. Not all jobs can be saved, but we should do what we can to minimise the impact of the financial crisis on Norway, and to do what we can to keep their jobs as much as possible, and – not least – to help transform our business so that when we get out of this crisis, business is even more competitive than it was when we entered this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1520	I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive approach in the answer. I thought it was nice that she started by taking care of the individual, because that's actually what this is all about. We must not make this debate purely mechanical, if companies and large systems, because what it is really about, is the concern of the individual – single-faced behind – the situation of the individual, of the family, etc. If we have that focus, it might be a little easier to find good and constructive solutions. And to what's my next point: I really hope that the Council of State in this work listens to industry, to industry itself, because they have many constructive measures, and that they also seek broad solutions to the opposition party. It is important that the measures that come on the road are durable. And, with all due respect for today's government and government party, it's not, after all, a large majority they represent, so its broader base decisions and arrangements have in the Storting, the more durable and secure they are. Then there are some leaders that I think are important. Some of the challenges we hear are the latest today that Norwegian industry says they need better framework conditions so that they can compete outside. I very much agree with the definition, that this is a global crisis, and that one has to seek global solutions, but at the same time there is a raw competition between countries about new investments, and then we have to make sure that Norway does not go back in line. We need to take care of, among other things: with better depreciation rules, that we become competitive in competition for new investments. We have to ensure export opportunities for Norwegian industry, which we are totally dependent on. The fact that GIEK and Export Finance have adequate frameworks, not a heavy code that creates unnecessary constraints, is a good tool in this way. Then we are also in the situation that the industry, not least the aluminium industry, feels little money, that they are simply in a liquidity crisis, or they lack cash, to put it that way, and they have asked for a grip – to postpone the payment of corporate tax. It is hardly a grip that the Ministry of Finance is jumping off — at least not out of joy — with it going to be effective in strengthening liquidity. There's a bunch of these things. So we have to make sure that we use this crisis to take care of and further develop our skills. I am pleased with the signals about more flexible pension rules, increasing the opportunities for research and development, investing in TaxFUNN, etc., so that we create optimism and a threat to the future in business, and then we can actually get out of this strengthened. It may be that what was in crisis was also a time for growth. That's what we hope for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1533	As I hear the representative of Sørfonn, I feel that we agree on most things. From the government side, we are also concerned about getting broad solutions when it comes to it – and it has turned out in the financial crisis cases that it has been possible in a lot of ways, and I am pleased about that. The second thing that has been said to be absolutely crucial is to have close dialogue, but also to listen to the industry and industry for the rest. That's why we've been searing both close and close and frequent contact, because it's said that those who know best, what needs to be done. Then there's a point that the representative Sørfonn brought up in the main post that I didn't get to comment on in my reply post, and that concerns the power regime and long-term power agreements. It's usually very important for large parts of our industry, and the main element is getting more long-term agreements. Boliden is one example of that, but we have to get more. I also refer to the conversion facility that is there, and to the rental arrangement. Enova now has a lot of historical money to spend, they've never, as far as I know, had as much money as they have now. It is also part of a new power regime. And the Prime Minister also launched yesterday — and there are proposals for it in the revised national budget — money for a new purchasing consortium, as the industry has asked for. In many ways it's a kind of cooperative, where you go together, according to the French model, to get solutions and good deals. Here the government will propose $40 million. kr in the revised national budget, added to Innovation Norway, which is to be used for what is called ‘de minimis aid’, according to the model of the French model, and I hope the Stortinget will join it. We will have a close dialogue with the industry about this in the future. It also means that we consider different loan and guarantee schemes, including in the extension of this, in close dialogue with industry. I therefore agree with the representative Sørfonn that this is an area that we have said both to have and has always been high on the agenda in relation to being prepared to step in with new measures if there is a need for it. So on top of that, the representative was also concerned with something that's very important, that's to keep his skills up. Because we must not make the mistake, which has sometimes happened in a crisis before, that a person loses the necessary and good competence of many companies. We need to upgrade our tool so that they have money and resources to set up so that their skills can be maintained. I believe that there are many possibilities for now through the various packages that have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1548	First, I would like to say to the interpellant that I think there is an important debate he is raising today, in particular that he addresses the industrial communities' situation and their hopefully positive outcome from the financial crisis. I myself am growing up in a small building with a very large corner stone company. It's quite clear that when something happens to the corner stone business in a built, the whole community. We've now seen that in Høyanger. There are over 300 available in Hoyanger. In such a small community one notices it very well. We see it at Karmøy, where parts of the aluminium factory have been laid down. Karmsund Verft is bankrupt. There are actually 600 unemployed in Karmøy no. There are large and serious figures in small rural communities. Then it is important that we have a government that is willing to put in place measures for conversion and measures for those who lose their job. For us in the Labour Party, work for everyone always has our job number one. Because we know that one of the worst things that can happen to a human being is to lose the job. It's about individuals and families around, and about the society they live in. The government has presented several packages of measures, which are both large and extensive, but it is not really such that the government can buy cars if a car factory goes bad. Therefore, we must use this crisis to create future jobs. We must therefore contribute to the transition. I want to talk a little about Årdal and what happened there. When we started this ageing period, it was quite critical in Årdal. A large part of the factory was to be shut down, and over 200 were to lose the job. Then the state went in with large conversion tools, and we got a new door factory, which we had a big discussion about. It's Europe's most modern door factory, and it's going very well. And we've got a new, beautiful, modern and forward-looking photovoltaic factory in the village. Hydro has its technology center there and wants to expand it. In a building that was actually characterized by insecurity and deportation, it has turned to optimism and relocation. I think we need to make sure that the transition in other small communities as well and maybe do conversion work there, so that they get more legs to stand on insecure times. I want to mention something, and there is a lot that has been done about these buildings: the depreciation rules, for example. I did something about it. We have introduced cyclical tax reliefs, and it is a measure that goes directly to businesses that need it and that wears it. We have now presented the industrial power regime with consortia purchases, which Jens talked about yesterday. We have created the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund for SEK 50 billion. All of this together will help us to use the crisis to create new jobs and create future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1561	The interpellant addresses an important issue. I think that's good. As the situation now is, the world economy has changed radically in the last six months, and perhaps a little bit more than that. The situation is serious. There is a significant decrease in growth, and there is an increase in unemployment. Interpellant noted that Spain has 20 pst. unemployment. It is also the case for some communities in Norway that unemployment is at that level. As I perceive the situation so far, the government has been passive, observed a lot and made little action for this situation. In fact, the government has brought so-called crisis packages. They have arrived late, but they have received support in Stortinget. There has probably been a demand from the opposition and from large parts of the business that this should have come earlier. The government's forecasts in connection with the state budget for the current year, considered the government to be good at the time. Turns out you've been bombing radically. It also warned the opposition when the state budget was being dealt with. It is also the case that, before the end of 2008/2009, the government announced that new measures were to be taken. The force regime has been mentioned. I think everyone remembers the election campaign in 2005. Then there were torches in connection with the Union in Skien. There haven't been so many torches after that. At least I have not registered that someone in the government has gone on a torch for companies that have been closed down. It is a fact that promises of the industrial power regime on which this red-green government went to election are not fulfilled. What may be revised will be looked at then, but I have recorded that the industry is dissatisfied that the government has not taken any measures for the powerful industry. There's a lot of ways to solve that problem. One of the measures that can be introduced is to build up more power. Thus, the government has protected – to give an example – tissue, which could have given a lot of power in an area that lacks it, could have taken action to build up and renew existing power generation, and could have also been subjected to previous protective plans – all of this in order to build up new, environmentally friendly and good power. Measures could also have been taken to launch a large-scale effort on small-scale energy. That industry is dissatisfied, I understand. So we'll see what's going to be revised. There has been much said by the Government, and I will not go into any concrete action in this way. So it's been mentioned in articles from several here that some industries are in crisis. Many have pointed to the aluminium industry and that fewer cars are being produced, because demand is radically lower. But you can also do some grips nationally. If you look at Germany, you can see that those who have increased the wreckage to approx. 23 000 kroner – if you buy a new car. It has also been proposed in the Grand Duchy. As far as I know, there will be no majority in favour of that proposal. It is not certain that the car production would be raised at Raufoss and elsewhere by adopting that proposal, but a large-scale replacement of the Norwegian car park would be obtained if the wreckage was increased and the fee reduced. And you would achieve more things: there would be demand for cars, and you would get safer – and also more environmentally friendly – vehicles. So it's possible to do some grips. In a number of areas, Norway is taking on the role of world leader. In terms of environmental protection, we have to be world leaders, and in terms of assistance, we have to be world leaders. Why not do some of these grips, so to send these signals out into the world? When Germany increased its wreckage, it was well received, and it was brought with it in many parts of the world. Finally, I registered that Jens Stoltenberg spoke in his 1st Mayal that the non-payment of salary could spread to other companies. That is what I expect the Council of State to come up with, because this is not to provide predictable, good and long-term framework conditions for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1583	Unemployment is taking place. The company's membership survey in March shows that more than half of small businesses are expecting tougher times. The international downturn has affected six out of ten member companies, according to the survey, and almost all of these report a decline in demand. Loans and refinancing have become more difficult to obtain. 35 enterprises are cut down daily — and the pace is increasing. Every year Kristin Halvorsen and Jens Stoltenberg have with great commitment and with great joy have increased the tax for Norwegian companies. Every year they have made jobs more vulnerable, less competitive and less secure. The government gave companies and jobs a poison pill by raising taxes by NOK 11 billion, while the financial crisis was putting in place. 50000 small and medium-sized enterprises are now on the verge of bankruptcy, and the government's contribution now is to push them a little further to the edge. The crisis is deeper than the fear, because the government chose to let half of the toolbox lie unused. The government’s crisis packages – alone – have been shown to have little effect, and unemployment is predicted to rise to 150,000 next year. The Council of State pointed to a failure in demand for aluminium and that the Government will contribute conversion funds to e.g.: Hoorayer. What about Sunndal – where more than 400 have now lost their job – will there be help for conversion in the same way? And what about the wreckage – mentioned here earlier – will the Council of State and the Government do anything about it? Right will reward those who create the jobs and values of the future. Extraordinary times require extraordinary measures and solutions. The most important wish of the enterprises now is a reduction in the employer’s fee, which is also the highest priority of the trade and service industry’s main organisation and the business association. The employer’s fee is a cost that exerts pressure on profitability and makes it more difficult to maintain good employees. Lower employers’ fees over a period of time will go straight to the bottom line of enterprises and be a good tool to raise employment. The right will therefore reduce the employer’s fee by 2.5 percentage points, which the Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen unfortunately rejected in cash, according to Stavanger Aftenblad Tuesday 5 May. Three days later, on Friday 8 May, Trygve Hegnar took an interesting perspective on the issue of a lower employer’s fee, namely that this room – including the government parties – acknowledges that a lower employer’s fee has a positive impact on employment, because we have different charges in different parts of the country. My question to the Council of State is: How can it be that the Government rejects the suggestion of the Right to reduce the employer’s fee for one year and thus contribute to securing the jobs? The right is ready to spend more money on what lays the foundation for our well-being, the values that we create. The best policy for most people is a policy that is good for Norwegian businesses and jobs and that rewards those who promote the good ideas. The right will therefore reverse the Government's increase in the inheritance tax and in the property tax for family businesses, while proposing to increase the minimum deduction by NOK 3 500 for all employees. There will be a time after the crisis. The danger is great that unemployment will become a reality in countries that do not have a strategy to get out of the crisis. Unemployment will fall rapidly in countries that are able to change, manage to be competitive and to think ahead. Unemployment will fall most rapidly in countries where new businesses are created and where private investors rate. It is therefore important to encourage start-up and private investment, rather than punish it. Norway may be strengthened out of the crisis if the Government listens to the Right and uses the entire toolbox. Three headlines on the right are ‘tax’, ‘school’ and ‘trafficking’ — tax to save jobs and create new ones, school because the modern economy requires employees with a lot of knowledge so that they can produce good products and provide good services, transport because the product is for those who have bought it, and so that they do not stand up in endless traffic islands. As I said, Norway may be strengthened out of the crisis if the Government listens to the Right and uses the entire toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1607	Let me, like almost everyone else, say that it's a very important topic the interpellant addresses. It's of course that this topic we've spent a lot of time in the last year not just debating, but actually doing something about it. It is probably not to exaggerate to say that it is the matter that has shaped the Norwegian news picture and the global news picture since the bubble cracked last summer. So you could have different angles of incidence. One is, of course, that the situation is serious, not least for those affected by the disappearance of jobs, especially in the competitive sector. Then you can choose to compare Norway with some other countries. It will then be evident that the policies that have been pursued, the economic structure that we have, and the position that we have, are relatively much better than in very many other countries. I think there might be reason to dwell slightly on that, simply because our value creation, our unemployment and our relative position are, in my opinion, far better – fortunately – than in very many countries it would otherwise be natural to compare with. No one knows whether this is a situation that will last, and whether we will be able to maintain this advantage or this advantage. It is to hope, but of course we do not have that kind of warranty. I choose to believe – which I am quite sure – that the policy of the Government and the Storting has been leading in the last few months and three quarters of the year has been a significant contributor to this, both the budgetary policy, which has been expansive, the crisis packages that have been promoted on a continuous basis, not least to speed up financial institutions and credit flows, and all the other measures that have been put forward. When I travel around the country and talk to people, it seems as if there is a reasonable degree of effort, a reasonable degree of satisfaction, a reasonable degree of recognition of being taken seriously, and that the Government is acting and solving the challenges we face. So I think we're all going to be humiliating about the dynamic situation. It might change. We need to keep up-to-date, to be up-to-date and on track in relation to any new measures. Both the Council of State, the Government as such and to the extent that the Prime Minister has also warned you to be. If new measures are needed, new measures will be taken. There's basically not so many other ways of attacking the situation that we're part of. I thought that would be my contribution here today. I am impatient and searching for the future, but relatively satisfied with what has been accomplished so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1620	In the last six months, there has been a lot of focus on the so-called financial crisis. My analysis is that we will also have the financial crisis in the future. It is an important matter that the interpellant has put on the agenda. It is also good to discuss such a matter more specifically against one-sided industrial sites affected by the so-called financial crisis. We have several opportunities to discuss this. As early as Friday, the revised budget will be presented, and it is marked that we have such a crisis. When we talk about a financial crisis in this country, it's actually an export crisis we're talking about, because we're so lucky enough to have muscles to be able to put in national measures that are quite targeted and that affect domestic activity. There are measures that are welcome in many areas. It concerns both the maintenance of public buildings and the maintenance of various projects, such as: in the field of transport. What is not so easy to do with is that we are an export-oriented country. And since the market has failed in the big world, we have discovered that we have no influence over it, neither politicians nor others. So what we're talking about is actually an export crisis. In such a situation, it is important that we look at the framework conditions that our companies have, like the permitting rules, that have been improved. They have to be flexible, so they're adapted to the acute situation we have now. What we're really talking about is that we have to have a smooth regulatory framework that allows us to take care of the competence, which other speakers have also been involved in here, because we have to believe that this is going on. Therefore, it is important that the competence remains in the companies. It is important that funds are allocated to enterprise-internal training so that enterprises can actually increase their skills in a difficult time and also focus on change, so that, when the crisis is over, businesses are even stronger. Nor do we get away with the fact that business has to change at all times. We have a financial crisis, but we also have a climate crisis. There are huge opportunities within climate technologies to create jobs. We have expertise in Norway today, not least in the workshop industry, and in other industries, which are suitable for renewable energy production in the event of conversion. That is why I expect companies to be encouraged to address the big challenge and where the big jobs will come in the future, namely in climate technology. The Left has therefore proposed the creation of a fund to speed up the transition towards climate technology. In Denmark, there are 40 000–50 000 jobs in, for example: windmill production, in Germany there are several hundred thousand. In Norway we have a lot of wind, but we have few jobs. We have competence and industry that should be concerned about this, and really see the possibility of creating new jobs here. Finally, I have a heart attack. We talked about 2-3 pst. the unemployed, and that it might be up to 5 pst. unemployed. But we have a group that already has between 8 and 9 pst. unemployment and youth under 25 years of age. On Text TV we could read today that in a short time this group might double, i.e. up to 15 pst. These are young people who are going out to work, and we know how important it is that these are just going to work to be involved and make an effort to carry the welfare community on. So I expect that when the revision is presented, there will also be funds to the group – and not least to universities and colleges to take care of the skills that are required, and to get the increased places of study that are wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1636	That's said very wisely in this debate, not least from the Council of State, but also from other people's posts, I think you have an approach to this to which I subscribe very much. I want to do two-three reflections. One goes along with the importance of a strong public sector and strong political governance. Sick if Norway is rich in money, I think we also have a system that takes care of people when we get out in difficult situations, a system built up over many years, and which is an important reason why the crisis is less tough for people in Norway than in some other countries. We have a school system, a health care system, arrangements for people who become unemployed, etc., which means that the drama is much less than, for example, in a country where unemployment schemes are not available, where schools are paid seas, where health services are paid, etc. The fact that we have the welfare model that Norway has built up over many, many years, I think people now appreciate even more than before, because in difficult situations, there is a network in all areas, so that the drama gets smaller than in some other societies. The second reflection goes on this with the opportunities offered by a crisis, and perhaps the need for us to have a crisis. In the light of the reports and the information I have at least received on climate challenges and environmental challenges, there was probably also a need for the world to calm down a little. Now we see that the car industry in the United States, which has one of the biggest challenges in terms of this climate, is throwing itself around and is starting to produce a new type of cars, such as cars. goes on electricity and on other fuels and uses much less fuel. It's just an example of a crisis that leads us to have to think in a different way now, that we have to change. I think this is a challenge that is also important for some companies here to land, but we are capable, we have to look forward, and we have to change. It was like this in Stavanger. I do not know how many hermetic factories there were in Stavanger when the refrigerator came in time. But it was quite dramatic for the hermetics industry when the refrigerator came. But also there you had to throw around and say, what do we do now, when we've got a competitor like the fridge? Well, we have to think about new ways, and we have to create new jobs. And in Rogaland, you could say that you've done the conversion. Likewise it was on Kongsberg, which was first a strong mining community. Later they went to weapon production, and now they're the world's leader in underwater technology, etc. I think that in a crisis you can also see it so that it's positive that people get to try a little, and that it can be positive that you think about and maybe get to relocate the businesses in a more environmentally friendly direction and become more forward-looking. The third reflection is on those who become unemployed. Here I think we have a challenge that we have to work even harder on. More – including Kongshaug in the last post – has indicated that one had to make sure that several people got a place to study. That makes a lot of sense. But anyway, I think it's important to think that when people get unemployed, we're going to do everything we can to make sure they spend the time they're free to fill up with skills, so that they're more competent when they get back to work. Whether it's three months, six months, or in the worst case one year, you use time wisely, because the unemployed have to have benefits through Nav, and that's good. But the fact that you have something to go to every day by being trained, I think, is very important, because then you get into a good circle. This applies not only to the person who acquires competence and fills, but to the whole nation. If there are 100,000 unemployed, e.g., and everyone is given a higher level of competence, there will be a huge increase in skills combined for Norway as a nation. That is why I hope in the future – if unemployment increases and it bites firmly – that we will find solutions and arrangements that will make those who are unemployed and receive daily allowances or benefits, at the same time make the opportunity to become more competent, which is good for them, but also for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1649	My starting point for the interpellation was that we have a serious situation, and I had a goal that we have to exploit a challenging situation to create new opportunities, growth and a positive development. And I'm pretty happy, because when you think that there's only four months to the grand election, I think the debate has been characterized by the fact that you've tried to find common solutions, and that there's a willingness to find common solutions. There are some measures that stand out and I have to repeat: firstly, that the Government is clear on measures to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. The amortization rules have our names. We must not lose out in competition with the rest of the world when new investments are involved. Then there's this research and development -- that a bet is maximum, takes care of the competence you have, the developer of new competence, that we're on the verge, is in the elite division on a world-wide basis. We've got ours, and there we have to be. The Council of State was in the area of means of conversion, but I do not fully understand whether it joined the idea of a food and conversion fund that specifically applies to municipalities where there are large corner stone companies, and which they can use to create activity, growth and development. I was also in the process of strengthening liquidity. We have banking packages, and all of this is fine, but business itself has asked that one could perhaps go some practical, a little untraditional way, with the postponement of e.g. some tax types, precisely in order to strengthen liquidity in a transition situation. I'll mention a practical case just to illustrate the way I think we can drive this forward. We have a long experience with offshore installations, required water installations that are quite powerful. There's also talk of sea-windmills, that is, producing wind power offshore. We have the competence when it comes to installations that can stand and move out there, but we lack some competence in this with windmills. If one had been pushed through this and had some wind turbines built on land – there are several of these that are ready – we would also have increased our competence in this area. So one could connect the competence we have when it comes to building windmills on land, with the offshore experience we have. It becomes a synergy that would make us quite unbeatable both when it comes to building offshore wind turbines here to land and also to going abroad with this. Finally, my point is that we have to take care of the optimism and the threat of the future in business. Nothing is impossible, it's just that something takes a little longer than other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1664	I think this discussion has been useful. We're going to take seriously the challenges these economic downtimes present, also in relation to us. There is no one who can say anything about how long they will be or something about the depth of this. But we have to be prepared for this to take time. On the one hand, there's no doubt that there's a serious situation that we're taking very seriously. But on the other hand, I also agree with the speakers, for example. The representative Ryan, who was here saying that there are also some possibilities in this. It was also the interpellant inside. It's a challenge we're going to do, and we know it's going to turn around. We all know that these opportunities are about many new jobs in e.g. environmental technology. There are two major crises that are being discussed in all countries now, not least the environmental crisis and the food crisis – I see the Minister of Agriculture present – and that is also the financial crisis. Here there are opportunities to link these crises to create new, more forward-looking jobs. I am listening to the debate, and I am not surprised that there are some different views on what measures you want. I respect that – and that there are somewhat different views on how much the state should contribute to Norwegian business. We're concerned that the means we put in must be used correctly. But let me comment in particular on the views of the Right, which are very concerned with the employer’s fee and by reducing it. When we're not followers of it, it's because we think it's a very little targeted arrangement. I also notice that the chief economist in First Securities, Harald Magnus Andreassen, whom I understand is a member of the Right, has stated to the E24 that this is a bad response. In the case of the Progress Party says that the promise of a new industrial power regime has still not been fulfilled, it is wrong. So the new power regime, like the old one, will have several different building blocks. It's long-term contracts, it's Enova, it's refurbishment facilities, rental arrangements and a new purchasing consortium that also comes up with proposals for money that are revised, coming on Friday. In addition, the trade movement and industry have proposed that Innovation Norway or other actors should be able to provide loans or guarantees for the purchase of power to consortia under market conditions with pledges in force. That's also something we want to do. So we're going to make sure that we get a lot of long-term power contracts for the future, which is crucial for large parts of Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1679	The debate on substance is then closed. Eight is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1695	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2958]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1713	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2958]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1732	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2958]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1750	I have encouraged this interpellation to get a debate in Stortinget on how to develop Norwegian food and the Norwegian kitchen, and how we can become more proud of both the Norwegian kitchen and the raw materials we are sitting on. In short, how can we make Norwegian food and Norwegian cuisine – Norwegian food traditions – a lighthouse? And how can we get the ambition to be the best in the world in food, so that Norway becomes a country that others see in food and exquisite raw materials? I don't think the Council of State and I see so much difference in this, but it's going to be interesting to hear what the views of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who is actually just sitting on parts of the food resources here in the country, have. The fisheries sector is very important, it is also exposed to competition internationally and has created a name for Norway outside. But we are lucky to have an agricultural and food minister who is not completely familiar with that sector, as he has also been a fisheries minister. How can we get more focus on food policy? So far during this ageing period, food policy has not been a topic in the main hall. There have been no major documents from the Government in relation to how we will develop Norwegian food, and what strategies we should apply. We have, as everyone knows, a tough climate and a beautiful nature. We have cleanness – we have clean air, we have clean water, we have good grass, we have mountain pastures, and not least we have – now we have adopted the new Animal Welfare Act – good animal welfare, completely world-class. We have a lot that others don't have, and we should be able to make better use of in our position. When discussing agricultural policy and policy related to agricultural policy, we say that the difficult climate is rather a problem than a challenge. We get on the defensive all the time when we're discussing this topic. As I mentioned in the interpellation, a Norwegian chef recently won the international competition Bocuse d'Or, which is the world's most prestigious food competition. It's not bad, and it shows that we have all the possibilities when we put all the cloths on. The Norwegian fishing industry, as I mentioned, is exposed to competition. Norwegian fish are sold all over the world; it is recognised for its excellent quality. The customers – e.g. from Japan — purchasing Norwegian fish is among the world’s most demanding in terms of commodity quality. It is clear that we have a advantage through the fishing industry – we have learned how to act on international markets in terms of good quality and in terms of marketing. We should then be able to associate the competence of the other food sector we have, i.e. agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is not offensive. It is not export-oriented and cannot be tried in international competition. Competition is good. Competition makes each of us tighten up, it makes us get better, and it will lead to a good quality of what we do. If we're going to win, we have to be the best in the competition. Now we find that more and more foreign products are coming into competition with our own food production here at home, without us equally able to enter other markets. Now the Business Committee has traveled all over the country, we've been in all the counties over these four years. We've seen that things are going very well out there, it's very good Norwegian food. But I have to say that I notice a difference when I travel around as a staging representative and when I travel around privately, as a tourist. It is clear that we, as wholesalers, see the best and the best – much of it I should have liked to have seen when I travel around as a tourist, for example. in case of dyspnoea. We have now launched a new brand, ‘New Norway’. I think that's a good idea. It is important that those types of schemes are given good resources, that the Government continues to do so, and that we are just using what we have learned from the competitive part of the food industry, in the quality assurance that we are going to have through ‘New Norway’. Food valuation programs, which you have had for many years, have had a good effect, but I want to ask myself if it has had enough effect. The council and a delegation from the Progress Party met at the Green Week in Berlin in January. It was a useful experience to see how Norway was marketing — and that was good. But we saw that other countries too are capable – other countries are also on the road and as good as us. I want to challenge the Council of State as to what lessons he has now taken, after being on Green Week this year. How can we develop that opportunity even better? I'd like him to say a little bit about it. We need to focus more on local food. As I have said, we in the nutrition committee have now been around to see very good local food. How can we focus more on the good local food we have, also on the ordinary Norwegian consumer – not just on those who get it presented in special contexts, for example. who travel around, delegations, tourists or special teams and assemblies? The Tourist Association has launched its local food project. I'm a frequent user of these cabins and have positive experience with it. But how can we now contribute, from the state side, to the further development of this type of project? The daily food industry is important in this way, especially here in Norway. We've now got a structure with four big chains, and it can be hard to get into these chains. How will the government challenge the daily food industry to better integrate local food into its assortments? We have now seen that Coop has started a very good project. They must have local food and are now calling for high-quality local food producers to be able to take the products into the shops. Tine has now been positive in terms of contributing to logistics. It is very good to say that you can send local food with our trucks. The ambition must be to get more local food products into local grocery stores. At that time, the local population will have a greater connection with the farmland and its local producers, and we will be much closer to the consumer, which is lacking today. Then we will also have a greater understanding of an active agricultural policy. Then I think I'll finish there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1782	Innovation and industrial policy in the field of food and at the intersection of food-travel life is a priority area for me. That's why I like this interpellation, and that's why it's a good opportunity to present the Government's and my plans in this area. In Norway we produce despite our geographical location and a rough climate, world-class raw materials. Carrot from polar straw is a function between nutrition, light and heat. The result is a sweet, crispy, light, pointed and fruity carrot. We have fruit with a unique sweetness, we have strawberries that cannot be compared to others, and we have world-class lambs. In order to produce quality products and become an important international food culture country in the long term, it is therefore necessary to maintain agriculture throughout the country. Volume production and an active production environment throughout the country are the basis for some — increasing — rates of production of different types of food specialities. For this reason, the Government has contributed to a good income development for the economic operators in agriculture in recent years, and from 2008 to 2009 an increase in income of 12-13 pst is budgeted. Agricultural policy is important, and under this government there has been a different and more positive development of incomes in agriculture. It is important to achieve policy objectives, but we still have challenges. For example, it will. take time before we again meet domestic demand for meat from cattle and sheep. In other words, developing Norway into an ‘internationally leading gourmet country’, to use the word of the representative Kielland Asmyhr, is not possible if food production in Norway is to be governed by market forces alone. At the same time, I would like to stress that development is essential for the success of the market over time. Norwegian agriculture has changed enormously in the last 60 years. Technological development here, as elsewhere in society, has been an important driving force. We also need to recognise that more is required than market regulation, border protection and financial support schemes to maintain Norwegian agriculture. The Norwegian food industry and agriculture are exposed to competition. From 1995 to 2008, imports of food and drink have increased by over 200 p.m. and in 2008 imports amounted to DKK 23 billion. With stronger competition as a starting point, we must create a policy such as: open up food and agricultural policies to other sectors in order to increase value creation and strengthen competitiveness. The government has, as I said, taken the initiative to set up a new quality brand for Norwegian food, ‘New Norway’, and I had the privilege of launching the logo for the brand scheme last Friday. ‘New Norway’ shall, inter alia: help bring agriculture and the farmer closer to consumers, make visible the importance of food production in Norway and, in particular, document quality work in Norwegian food production. My goal is a policy that provides large enough and stable inputs of high-quality raw materials, thus ensuring a similar strong domestic food industry. This is essential in order to have active agriculture here in the country and thus also to produce local food specialities. This, however, does not come about by itself. If we are to succeed, we will depend on significant development of competences and division of labour, both nationally and in individual communities. Norwegian agriculture has great opportunities to exploit the value creation potential of producing food specialities — call it food with local identity. Food with local identity gives consumers an additional experience, such as: a good story or a sense of belonging and proximity to the food. In order for Norway to develop into a mat nation, I believe it is very important that more small and medium-sized food businesses rate on such products. I have therefore taken the initiative to change the pace in my work to contribute to the production of food specialities. In the Value Creation Programme for Food Production, I have established my own growth rate. There we will strengthen companies that want to produce food specialities for a larger market. We want to help manufacturers become even more competent, so that they can produce a volume that can be delivered to larger grocery stores and to hotels and restaurants. We have an active district policy that has helped to maintain settlement throughout the country. Norway therefore has unique opportunities to safeguard and develop competitive advantages in relation to the production of products based on regional specificities. I am therefore committed to stimulating the creation of regional producer networks and associations that can exploit the potentials of, among others. joint quality work, brand construction, distribution and market work. Producer groups, such as: Flooring food, Lofotmat and Rørosmat, help small producers get stronger together. Our marking system, Protected Geographical Indication, corresponds to the EU marking system PGI. In Norway, we have 16 authorised products. Sides of Hardanger, which became a protected product name two weeks ago, now have the same status as the AOC-labelled wine from France. In a recent study under the auspices of the EU True Food project, 90 pp. by French, Spanish and Italian consumers that the indication of origin indicates a better and special quality. In Norway, the figures were not as high, but studies show that the potential is high. For the major food culture countries such as France, Italy and Spain, this is an important competition strategy. I believe that the labelling scheme is a right and important competition strategy for Norway if we are to be able to increase our status as a food country. We therefore need a new mobilisation to get more products with protected names. I am impatient on behalf of all of us who see that the brand scheme produces positive results, and have therefore asked for an extra mobilisation to get more branded products. Food and food culture has to do with our identity. In a world where borders between countries themselves become less important, food culture acts as a national building. This was illustrated in a rich monn when we were at the food fair Grüne Woche in Berlin in January this year. Nations struggle to promote their culture as the core of their identity. The government sees food and travel as two sides of the same matter. Food is an important travel product. Studies show that tourists are looking for experiences related to regional food and food culture. A stronger element of Norwegian food and food culture will provide added value for tourists and thus strengthen travel life. At the same time, travel is an important market for our food and drink products. When we market Norwegian food and travel in Germany, there is some kind of export where instead of sending goods, we pick the customers up to the country. At the same time, I welcome the fact that in the long term we are paying more on the export of Norwegian quality products. Akevitt is the agricultural product we export most of, and we have some export of morelles and lambs. These are products that achieve a higher price in some non-paymentable markets than they achieve on the domestic market. We have many measures in place to make our traditional and good raw materials more accessible to tourists and travellers. I especially want to mention our big new online bet «Track». From 1 June this year, tourists will be able to get information about good eating places along the way via the Internet, GPS and mobile phone. ‘Track’ is part of the website Visitnorway — the largest and most important Norwegian travel web site. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has also agreed, in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, that local food and food culture should be part of the offer along the national tourist roads. Today, these roads are largely surrounded by beautiful nature. Now tourists are going to experience something in addition – food that is in the way of the natural experiences. To succeed, we need good ambassadors for Norwegian food — ambassadors who present Norway as a food country with quality products. On the basis of this, I have concluded a four-year agreement with the Norwegian Cookmasters' Association. The agreement implies that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food contributes 500000 kroner each year to the contract. The Ministry also cooperates with Young Entrepreneurship to get more children and young people interested in food and food production. Norwegian lamb and Norwegian salmon were selected as the main raw material during the summer European Championship in Cooking, Bocuse d'Or. In other words, we have exceptionally good raw materials. We also have master chefs in the world class, as this year's winner of Bocuse d'Or, Geir Skeie, or also the national team of chefs who became the Olympic champion. This is a very good starting point for developing Norway to become a recognised food country. The important thing is to take care of the possibilities that this gives us. This government does so, with a good and targeted agricultural policy that includes the whole value chain for food, and that facilitates production throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1837	I see that the Council of State and I look very much like this. There were many good points in the statements of the Council of State, but what I wish the Council of State could answer is: one thing is to be able to have an interpellation debate on this matter. Another thing is whether the government could do a thorough job in preparing a larger notice on Norwegian food policy, so that we can get a case to the autumn where we can discuss this widely, and where the Stortinget gets involved in the design of the strategies we are going to put forward for Norwegian food policy in the future. I agree with what the Council of State said about developing local producer networks, helping founders get the right volume and market orientation, learning how to market, etc. It is also important to have more protected brand names. I think it is positive that an agricultural minister expresses positiveness to increase exports. I believe that Norwegian food has great opportunities in payment markets – in London, Paris and Berlin, to mention someone. Even in the United States, I was in the fall – a country I travel a lot. I was in the countryside at a casual grocery store and got a pretty good picture of how the Jarlsberg cheese is being marketed to the local consumer in rural USA. The husband of the marketing I have never seen of a Norwegian cheese here in Norway. The management in Tine has received these images, and they are now using them as a template for how Jarlsberg cheese is to be presented to consumers in the United States. So it is clear that we need to change our attitude, also in relation to our own groceries, in terms of how we market Norwegian food to Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1846	I am also pleased that the interpellant and I have many conflicting views on this matter. It is an important debate. I believe that there is a broad political consensus between the parties in Stortinget on working even more offensively with food policy in the context of the activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as I have stressed after becoming Minister of Agriculture and Food. One of the important points here is to reduce the distance between primary producers, whether fish or farmers, and consumers. Not least because consumers are the best ambassadors for Norwegian food products, this distance is important. We have therefore also launched a consumer involvement project – which I did not mention in my first post – which means that we are working to create this contact and dialogue between the food producer and the consumer, thus creating alliances that promote Norwegian food culture, which promotes Norwegian food production, and which contribute to the achievement of the objectives we have for Norwegian agriculture. I am busy working widely and properly in all fields in this area. That's why – as I was challenged by the representative of Kielland Asmyhr – I have also challenged the daily food industry to do a better job to bring food specialities and organic products to the fore. I experience that the groceries industry has taken on this challenge. I have challenged them directly in joint meetings, and after that time both the Norway Group, Coop and REMA have said that they will make it more targeted and more active. The Coop project, which was highlighted by Kielland Asmyhr, is a result of this challenge, where Coop will now have regional investments in food products from different parts of the country. I am also concerned that we are working with the fishing industry to take advantage of the knowledge that the fishing industry has on the export side. I am also convinced that the traditional agricultural industry can contribute to the knowledge transfer to the fisheries industry in terms of product development and new products. So here it's a reciprocity, and I also think, as I said, that the agricultural industry benefits from learning from the export competence of the fishing industry, while at the same time the fishing industry benefits from learning from the product development competence of traditional agriculture. Here we have established a company, NOFIMA, which can contribute well to that work. So the work on food policy, on developing Norwegian food products, on Norwegian food skills, and, not least, on the enormous potential we have in Norwegian raw materials and in Norwegian knowledge through the amazingly skilled chefs we have, is a joint project that I'm going to put myself behind and work on, and I'm going to assess the question of contact with and information to the Stortinget in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1859	I would first like to thank the interpellant for putting an important and interesting theme on the agenda. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr is right that there are few who view Norway as a gourmet country. Surveys of the tourism industry have shown that this is an area with significant potential for improvement. Norway is a destination for many. People are waiting and getting good experiences, but we have a bit of a houseman's spirit in the dining room. This is why the Government put a focus on the travel life strategy that was put forward in December 2007. There is an emphasis on ensuring good food experiences for those visiting our country. We need to produce new products and industrial development through a combined food and travel project, focusing on the local nature of our cultural heritage. We have a number of advantages in relation to many other countries – as has been said before – with food production based on cleanliness, freshness, good animal welfare and not least good raw materials. Then it would probably be lacking that we would not be able to offer visitors more than burgers and fries at Norwegian restaurants and road cafés. Now it has to be said that a lot has to be done. The previous Stoltenberg government is launching the food production value creation programme to develop Norwegian agriculture through innovation and product failures, thus contributing to increased value creation in primary production and processing. The emphasis is also on profiling Norwegian food nationally and internationally, such as cannabis. through an annual stand at the Green Week in Berlin, which is attended by both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in cooperation with Innovation Norway and the U.D. Food festivals are supported, and the Norwegian Cookland team is also an important element. Last week, the Minister of Fisheries opened the meal house in Bergen, a competence centre for food research. Helga Pedersen showed during the opening that Norway is a great nation, which on average sends 27 million seafood meals into the world every day. The government's commitment to providing the Nordics with better access to fresh fish must also be mentioned. However, Norway is too much a pure commodity exporter in this area as well. Last year, the Ministry of Agriculture put forward a food policy strategy — ‘Taste of Norway’ — which provides the basis for a more holistic food policy. But things take time. We learned that when the committee was in Switzerland this winter. The niche products were translated at far better prices than otherwise, but it has, as I said, taken time. It is good to see that many small food businesses around the country have a positive development, for example.: Before weekend, Norwegian-produced food was given a new consumer profile in the brand scheme ‘New Norway’. The label asks for high quality, and it will be exciting to see how consumers accept it. Finally, I would like to say: On all the tours we have taken around the Kingdom, there is no shortage of good Norwegian food, often with a local average. Food is culture. Let's all be neater ambassadors with a view to contributing with that. But good food with good raw materials means that the focus must be away from the fact that there is only a low price to be on the Day Map and in our heads. We need to get a greater focus on quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1880	It has been said very interesting so far in the debate, and there has also been a great deal of consensus in this matter. Everyone who has had the word so far is interested in food, and it also has signed and I think those who come after me. At least that is the experience I have with my colleagues in the committee. I think the interpellant took up a lot of interesting things, among other things. to receive a separate notification of ageing for treatment in this house in terms of food and the strategy to be adopted, because it affects quite a number of departments. It concerns the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries. It also concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for travel life. Now it's like this government has put forward some strategies. But the problem with strategies is that they're not being treated here in the Storting – in other words, the Storting doesn't get to say exactly that. A food strategy and a travel strategy have also been presented. But as long as we don't get it to be dealt with in the Storting, it's really a little hard to get a complete view of the political strategy you're going to have. I also fully agree with the representative, Eng, who is withdrawing the price. It's not like it's just a low-price focus. However, it is clear that the focus is on price when price levels in Norway are so much higher than in Sweden. But it is also true that consumers are willing to pay a much higher price if the quality is good. We look at a number of other areas, both within food and other products, that quality and price are linked, and that there is a great deal of willingness to pay. When you have a debate on the topic addressed by the interpellant, it is in many ways also a debate on the future of Norwegian agriculture. I think you get to a point where Norwegian agriculture has to go into the world to compete. I'm not afraid of that. Norwegian agriculture has the best products in the world. But as the situation is today, local production is being produced, and I believe that the potential of Norwegian agriculture cannot be exploited. We can market Norwegian agriculture and those products in an excellent way. What we know about tourists coming to Norway is that they come mainly to experience a clean and pristine nature. Just that element can also be used in the marketing of Norwegian agricultural products. You do it in the fishing industry. You can see that you're almost at the top of the North Pole, that you have clean seas and great products. The fishing industry has done it with shine, and I think it is quite possible that agricultural producers of food will also do the same. Then, of course, there will be a transition from receiving more than $20 billion in support directly and indirectly. But at some point you have to dry up that fight and make sure that those who have the opportunity to do it will do it. In the previous interpellation we had, when it came to the industrial and industrial crisis, the Council of State said that not everyone is going to survive. I don't think all the farmers are going to survive either. But I think there'll be so many people that you can do a really good job. The economic fraction of the Progress Party was in Germany on Green Week and saw what was there. I was actually inspired by that. The state Norway had there was good, but there can be much, much more of it. When you look at how much other countries and their regions put in it, we have a way to go. What you can do is have a real bet. You can simply take a guided tour of Norway for food. Then I think it would be important for the Norwegian fishing industry, which is a brand out here in the world, to play a role here, to use it as an offensive drag. Then I think it is quite possible to ensure that the focus is also on Norwegian agricultural products. In conclusion, I am glad that it has gradually been focused on locally produced food around the shops in Norway, because that is what I think the future is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1897	The representative of Kielland Asmyhr has addressed an interesting theme of agricultural and tourism policy related to the marketing of Norwegian food abroad and a potential strong commitment to making Norway a leading gourmet nation. There is little doubt that the interpellant is right that Norway in some areas is a producer of exquisite raw materials, both from aquaculture, fisheries and different types of agriculture. Norway also has a number of local food traditions that can be built up to become sales goods both in a wider market in Norway and abroad and to be attractive to the tourism industry. The vision of the interpellant to make Norway a leading gourmet country is to a large extent interesting. If this is to take place separately, it is nevertheless necessary to have a realistic approach and an idea of how we will succeed based on the opportunities we have in Norway with our climate and with the food traditions we actually have. This is, of course, an arena with significant international competition and different possibilities, depending on the segment in which you operate. As far as food tradition is concerned, I think Norway has a lot to do with, but it is also true that Norway has for many years focused on being a domestic volume producer and that other countries have a strong foothold in terms of international food reputation. For example, the French kitchen is well-known beyond its borders as an international gourmet kitchen. Many countries have niche products and traditions that have been incorporated and are well anchored in the international market. Taking into account the fishing area in Norway, we have a clear basis for taking and developing an international position in the export of first-class raw materials. Norway is a world leading producer of farmed salmon and wild caught fish. As far as I know, Norwegian salmon, as far as Norwegian lambs, belonged to the main ingredients of the cook competition to which the interpellant referred at the outset. There is an obvious point to make coordinated efforts in the marketing of Norwegian seafood products abroad in a way that increases the value creation of Norwegian raw material producers and of the Norwegian food industry. If we take a look at the website of the Export Committee for Fish, the main message is that ‘The best seafood comes from Norway’. This is what the Committee on Exports wants people from all over the world to think. Therefore, the Norwegian Maritime Food Committee is marketing food worldwide on behalf of the fishing industry. The export selection is the world’s largest ‘common market leader’ of fish and seafood, and the aim is to increase the number of people in different countries to choose Norwegian seafood. I feel in many ways that the activities of the Committee on Exports meet some of the challenges that the representative Kielland Asmyhr is drawing up in the field of seafood, and that it is a bit up to the industry itself and the Committee on Exports to develop this in a way that maximizes Norwegian maritime food value creation. It's interesting that you've made it very good in the seafood field. Perhaps the agricultural industry can also learn a little from the results of the Maritime Food Committee. Innovation Norway has a central role in the marketing of Norway as a travel-life nation and in any assistance with the export and marketing of Norwegian agricultural products abroad. This is a relatively limited activity today. I think it is important that Innovation Norway, when they market us as destinations abroad, does so in a way that also meets the needs of agriculture and the food industry to the extent that it is also compatible with travel life objectives. Food and tourism are two sides of the same story, and local specialities are part of the experience that many visitors in Norway will enjoy. The development of tourism activities related to local food tradition is also important in order to achieve key objectives in order to make the tourism industry an industry with more than one annual job. This type of travel offer gives extra income to people living in the destination of travel life and it contributes to living communities that are attractive to visit. As regards the export of Norwegian agricultural products, this is at best an interesting niche. I think it's going to be a lot more for Norwegian agricultural products to be the basis for making Norway a leading gourmet country, if we're going to be pretty realistic. Norwegian agriculture has been volume-focused. It may be that emphasis should be placed on developing individual segments to become international exports. The Union market is large, and Norway may have opportunities, for example: in the case of Norwegian sheepmeat exports. This is of high quality, and we have a story to tell around the production of Norwegian lamb that is credible internationally. We have certain trade policy challenges, which we will also be able to face if we are to export. I believe that the conclusion of this debate must be that we should have a review of the possibilities for the export of Norwegian agricultural products and focus more on the opportunities we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1931	In my opinion, this is both a tasty debate and an important one. It's an important theme that's traveled here. The interpellant must have all the credit for it. It's not hard to get involved in some main tutorials. When it comes to Norwegian food, Norwegian food production and, not least, export opportunities, we have a few advantages that are quite striking. One is the possibility of producing safe food, food that is pure, etc. It applies to animal health, to general food security, etc. There we have advantages that we can develop further, and that we can take care of. We should. The second is to bet on the niche product with a local anchor. It's quite clear that people are getting more refined and are asking for it a little special. It applies both domestically and not least abroad. I want to warn you that we're manufacturing so that there's no creativity in the industry in this area. That's not how I know her. I'm a little proud that the cook world champion, Geir Skeie, comes from my home municipality. It might not be completely random, because I see how it bubbles in this environment, and so on. at the continuing school where he attended, where youth businesses with enthusiasm compete with food produced from local raw materials. We see younger farmers as bubbling with creativity, and almost cannot keep up for all the possibilities they see both when it comes to production and processing and not least how to export and sell out. Here's a potential for channelling and reorganizing, so you don't get the message from anyone who sees the possibilities. When I say that, it is also my experience – but this may have something to do with what kind of environment you go into – that not least on the smaller ones we see that this creativity perhaps flourishes extra strongly. I am, and let me also stress it, a supporter of the fact that we must have market mechanisms. I don't think the free market should control this. It is linked to the fact that our agricultural policy is closely linked to our bus policy. If there's a positive drift on the curtains, there's also life in the countryside. So it's going to be an activity, and we're going to have an all-round Norway. Tourism has been mentioned in some articles. If we are to have a basis for tourism, we must not have a cultured landscape that is widened and in which it is not possible to move. If we are to have a cultural landscape that will last, we must have active farmers. There is a context there, and I would therefore like to stress that it is also a careful link with the fact that we have market mechanisms that work, and take care of this versatile agriculture. To sum up, the Christian People's Party attitude is that we have faith in agriculture. We're a hot supporter of Norwegian agriculture, and we're going to be ahead. It is necessary, and we see a lot of positive possibilities that it is important to take care of, further develop and channel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1946	The left seems nice that food and specialities are put on the agenda through this interpellation, so pay attention to the interpellant for it. I also listened with interest to the statements of the Council of State. He also swung a trip into the agricultural business, and the very good settlements that have been. It would have been tempting to go into them, of course, but I realize that there will be a derailment of the debate, so I won't. We're given the opportunity to come back to that on later occasions. I also noticed that the Council of State said that he had a focus on food, on developing specialities in Norwegian agricultural production, and I think that is very nice. But that was not the signals we received when this government joined. Then there was a bet on the family business. This with niche production — as was said on various occasions, perhaps in a slightly demeaning tone — was something the previous government introduced, because we saw that Norwegian agriculture has such a structure that the smallest uses in a costing country that Norway has no chance of surviving on normal production, and then one must be creative and find other opportunities to obtain income. Just developing products based on specialities in a prosperous country like Norway, where there is purchasing power, and where you are willing to buy experiences, not least in the form of food related to history and events, was an opportunity, and we saw how this flourished. We've got a diversity in Norway – there's an incredible number of places where people have been creative, and where, on the basis of raw materials from their own farm, they've processed products related to history and connected them up to, among other things. travel life. They also pay well for the products, which of course you have to do when it's quality. We've seen a very positive development in this country. We have so great raw materials, it's both from sea and from land. Food is not just food. We have to have food every day to live, of course, but food is something more, it has to do with experience. And we've got a culture and a development in the area that's very good, also on the processing side. It is fun to see that it is popular among young people to learn in the cooking profession. We look at the results in international competitions how far we are going, and that is very good in the development of Norwegian specialities and Norwegian food experiences. We also have export opportunities. Lams have been mentioned here, and I think it is a very good product that can be exported and marketed abroad. We also have other products, but it's clear that competition is tough. There are several that refer to Green Week and all the providers that are there. Norway is not among the top in the world in terms of bets, but I believe it is important that representatives from Norwegian food production are present in such experiences and get impulses and can also bring with them special products. It's an important marketing. Then I am concerned that we need to focus on quality, competition and market access. It is then important that the chains that have these products are willing to be active in the marketing of Norwegian products as a special product and present them in such a way that this is exciting for users to buy. Then, of course, we have opportunities in travel, and with the beautiful country we have, combined with experiences through food and history, this will provide opportunities in the future. So I hope that we continue to rate value creation in food and food experiences in Norway. I think that can actually be a future industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1963	I think this has been a good debate. There is consensus in the Storting that food policy is important. There's also a consensus that we have a good starting point. We have good raw materials. We also have a good kitchen, but we have to pull it further from there and raise our eyes to something more and put clear strategies for what we're doing in the future. Therefore, I would like the Government to come back to Stortinget with those kinds of views and strategies, so that we could spend some more time here in Stortinget, and that the Business Committee was also more involved in shaping the strategies, for example. through consultations and through a major debate in Stortinget. I noticed that the council did not reject that he would do so, but he could be clearer. I believe that we should be able to export Norwegian agricultural products. Tomorrow, the nutrition committee will travel to London. I don't know how much time the nutrition committee gets to go around London, but in business Harrods, for example. you have a large food department that it's a dream to go through. It is clear that there are great opportunities for good products to be marketed. Norwegian fishing industry is strongly on the world market and uses considerable resources to market fishery products to customer groups by serving fishery products on receptions, etc. Could it also be an idea to include some good success stories for agricultural products to show a larger part of the Norwegian food dish? Getting niche production to the consumer is a major logistics challenge. There we have to do more. We must learn from the good success stories, and we must learn from those who have had success in competition. And so can those who aren't that good. We also need to look at how we can develop and coordinate public programmes better. I believe in the brand «New Norway». We'll see how the rest of society accepts this, and how we'll be able to develop it better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1975	I too would like to express a wish to follow up this debate further in the Storting, so I can get back to it. I feel that this discussion has been useful and important for Norwegian agriculture and for Norwegian food production industries. In fact, the food production industry is one of the most important value chains in Norwegian industry, with more than 100,000 employees if we include industry here. We have to do that, because there is a destiny between Norwegian primary production and Norwegian food industry. We work both against the food industry and towards the primary producers. I would like to stress that we are following up on concrete measures, which I have been involved in along the way. We have helped to establish cooperation with the Norwegian Tourist Association and the Rican hotels on local food on the menu. We have contributed to the creation of Local Food BA, which is going to work especially with distribution and logistics. We must also contribute further. However, I would like to stress that food policy is very complex from raw material production to consumer policy – not least it concerns the export industry. We have travel life, and we don't least have food security as an element of such a commitment. If you want to get a further investment in Norwegian food policy and Norwegian food production, it is an advantage that we use the country we have. It is an advantage that we have a policy that ensures that we have food production throughout the country and that we can take advantage of the many specialities from the north to the south. There is also some of the challenge in this discussion. One is that we want to export more, that we need to focus more on specialities, but we also need to make sure that we have a production at the bottom that gives us the opportunity to invest more. Without going into this in more detail now, I think there's an important bit in the further discussion here. After ten years we will now have an experience summary of the Value Creation Programme for Food. It's true, as I've been told here, that this is not something that this Council of State or the Council of State has invented before me. It's a continuation of a previous job, which was important then as well. We want to further develop instruments for new challenges. I want to stress that a lot has happened in ten years, and we need to look forward instead of looking back to get to this. Then it is important for me to find out that the interest in locally produced food in Norway has increased. I also think it should be possible to raise the international interest for exportable specialities. In the end, I just want to stress that this debate has been important. I hope we can have the opportunity to continue it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e1988	The debate on substance is closed. 12 is over. The time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The president doesn't think it's right to start the next case, and suggests that the morning meeting be cancelled, and that the evening meeting be held at 1 p.m. 6:00 p.m. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2023	The government has set itself an ambitious goal of halving the degradation of food soil – and that's good. I want to start by saying that sitting Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck and his predecessor Terje Riis-Johansen both have shown great commitment in this area. During their reign, a lot of reports and recommendations have been produced that make us have a larger picture of the situation today. We also know more about what needs to be done to strengthen soil protection, and how we can do it. Status per day Today, unfortunately, the trend is in the wrong direction. In spite of the government's goal of halving agricultural land degradation by 2010, the decline has increased by nearly 17pst. the last two years, according to the Central Statistical Office. In 2008, Norwegian municipalities gave a clear signal to rediscover more than 16,500 targets of cultivated or arable land for other purposes. The re-disposing of the food soil was primarily used for housing and industry. The area that was built in corresponds to more than 2,200 full-scale football courses, which corresponds to about 100 common farms. The figures for 2008 exceed those for 2007, despite the fact that the SSB lacks data from a total of 46 municipalities. This testifies to a development that is out of control. On 18 March, the newspaper Nations had an article on soil protection, showing this negative development. The article contained, inter alia: an interview with Andres Eye in Lærdal in Sogn, which is one of the farmers who have noticed increased pressure in the municipalities. Eyes run with milk, sheep, and morsels, but local politicians have recently decided to take from him about 10 goals of land cultivation to reregulate it into residential areas. Andres Øye’s comment on the decision in the nation was as follows: ‘It’s tragic that they want to take off the little we have of cultivated soil, and only choose the least resistance path. I don't need money, it's the cultivated land I want." Eyes further stated to the nation that he expects him to give up as dairy farmers if this plot is taken from him. In Norway, agricultural areas represent only 3 pst. of the total land area. The average agricultural area as a share of the rest of the world is about 10 pst. Norway has 2.2 farmland covers per capita. population, versus 2,7 decas per citizens of the world. Climatic conditions also mean that only one third of Norway’s soil area is suitable for food grain production. Nevertheless, there has been a long-standing re-disposal of such land in Norway. Over the period 1949–2005, the available agricultural resources in Norway were reduced by more than 1 million deches due to irreversible re-disposal. These areas cannot be converted back into agricultural land. The migratory flows and population growth around cities and agglomerations in Norway indicate that the most valuable food production areas will be exposed to the largest expansionary pressure in the future. Soil protection is important for many reasons. For the Christian People's Party, soil protection is also important because it is based on one of our core values – the administrative responsibility. The trustee's responsibility obliges us politicians who are responsible today to ensure that our descendants also have the opportunity to produce their own food on their own land. In most cases, soil degradation is irreversible. When the house, the mall or the highway first stands there, you don't get the land or the field back, as much as you want. They're lost forever. The question we have to ask ourselves is, how are we going to do something to create a greater commitment to soil protection in the political debate? Maybe the distance has become too great between man and the field or the cow in modern society? Climate change in the coming years will also radically change the conditions for food production worldwide. Many people believe that the changes have already begun to apply. Extreme weather conditions with drought, floods and floods as a result will destroy crops and lead to reduced supply of food on the world market. This in turn will lead to increasing food prices. Poor people in the Third World will suffer most under such conditions. Paradoxically, climate change can mean better food production conditions in Norway. Areas that were previously not suitable for food production, due to low average temperature and short growing seasons, could be more productive due to climate change. Climate change has already contributed to the increased seizure of agricultural land by biofuels worldwide than in the past. Another consequence of climate change is that short-term food has become more popular. Food safety, as well as increased attention to short-term safety and good food, is becoming an increasingly important part of our quality of life. It is climate friendly to eat food that is not transported around half the globe before it ends in our own stomach. Rapid economic growth in people-rich countries like China and India will lead to greater demand for food on the world market. This in turn leads to an increased need for land for agriculture. Last but not least, soil protection is important to ensure living communities and well-kept cultural landscapes throughout the country. It is an important part of Norwegian identity, and it is important for Norway as a destination. Local food production based on Norwegian genetic resources also reduces the risk of spreading disease and alien species, and it strengthens our preparedness to do so. Let there be no doubt: soil protection is important. The challenge is to get more people and politicians to understand this and to take the consequences of it in the many decisions taken in Norwegian municipalities – to quote the National Leadership Article 19 March this year: ‘It is a good principle that local people should be given the right to decide on issues related to the environment. But both local and municipal politicians want businesses, population growth and housing. Against such powerful forces a single farmer fights a hopeless battle." So what's the solution? What measures should be taken to strengthen soil protection in Norway so that the Government's objective of halving the degradation can be achieved? In January 2008, the Government received a report from the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen. He wanted more instruments. He received a report proposing an information programme, proposals to strengthen the Law on Planning and Building, proposals to develop new national policies and proposals to strengthen the Law on Soil Protection. A framework for the protection of soil resources was also proposed to ensure continued production on areas with high production potential. After this report, I have learned that the Government has worked on new national policy guidelines. Municipalities are also required to report on redundancy and land distribution matters. I have also registered that the Council of State has handed over a proposal to introduce a shelter into the law. The promise to halve the degradation of food soil by 2010 is likely to have to be written off. However, the need to strengthen soil protection is not due to expire in 2010 but obviously more lye is required. My question will then be, What will the Council of State do to follow up its promises and those of the Government in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2074	First, I want to thank you for the interpellation. I am pleased that it will be focused on as important a topic as soil protection and food security also from the Stockholm pulpit. In my opinion, ensuring enough food for a rapidly growing population in an increasingly warmer world is the most important problem facing the world's population. It is therefore essential that this issue also be addressed in this room. And that's why the government and I have been so concerned about these questions. Winning the most hearts for soil protection is one of my most important tasks as Minister of Agriculture and Food. That is why this inter-pelling debate is also important. Soil protection is not just about food security for us in Norway today. In a world with nearly 1 billion people starving, it's also about the food security of the entire world's population. And with predictions that global food production will have to double by 2050, to fill a population of 9 billion people, it's not least about food security for our descendants. We have very little cultivated land in Norway compared to most other countries. Only 3 pst. of the area is cultivated land and only 1,3 pst. are suitable for the production of cereals. This represents only 2,2 decs per. population, versus 2,7 decas per citizens of the world. Furthermore, the degradation of food soil is an irreversible intervention in a resource that nature has spent thousands of years building up centimeters of centimeters. For such soils are built, they cannot be re-used for food production. Interpellance is based on a preliminary and slightly too large figure for the real re-disposal of cultivated and arable land in 2008. A correct number for this is approximately. 14,800 dean, not 16,500 dean, reported by the interpellant. In fact, 14,800 dekars become the number when a dekar is subtracting from the areas that have been relocated to forestry and the areas that are regulated to agriculture. If you take this number into account, there's actually a slight decrease in re-disposal in the last year. However, if we compare with the average for the years 2002–04, there is a decrease of 6 800 deches, i.e. approx. 31 pst. Fortunately, from these figures, it doesn't look as dark as what the figures of the representative Holten Hemdal show. If we cut out the adorable field and just look at the cultivated field, it looks even brighter. Then the decrease in re-disposal is a total of 6,000 deaks and 45 pst. compared to the years 2002-2004. Compared to the whole ten-year period 1993–2004, the decline is slightly smaller, and about 38 pst. I don't want to go into a technical discussion about what are the most correct numbers, but there has actually been a significant decline in redispatch since our government took over, and we have made a significant effort to get to this. Let me, however, stress that I am the first to admit that the level of redistribution of the best cultivated soil is still too high, and that it is still important to do what you can to reduce it as much as possible. The government is working on an objective of halving the annual redeployment of the most valuable soil resources by 2010. This objective was, in fact, first formulated by the Bondevik II Government in its examination of the 2004 budget proposal. Later it has been repeated in the budget proposals up to now, and not least in the St.Government. No 26 for 2006-2007, the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. There should therefore be a broad focus on the objective. This government has clearly signaled a stronger soil protection. Last week, the Ministry of the Environment decided to raise two objections in line with my ministry’s recommendation. There is one case in Lillehammer and one case in the municipality of Skaun. This means that the Ministry of the Environment has so far followed my ministry’s recommendation in 20 of 21 soil protection cases during this government period. I therefore believe that this government has taken an important and quite long step in the right direction. And I think we can actually have the opportunity to achieve the government's 2010 goal. It meant a great deal that then Minister for the Environment, Helen Bjørnøy, together with then Minister for Agriculture and Food, Terje Riis-Johansen, sent the so-called Letter of Protection to the municipalities in 2006. I believe that this letter has been very important in order to bring forward the importance of soil protection, the government's halving objective, and not least the important role of municipalities in the work. For it must be emphasised that municipalities have been entrusted with a great deal of responsibility in the field of soil protection, both by deciding on individual applications and not least by planning according to the Planning and Building Act. I believe that this is the way it should still be, mainly because the municipalities are closest to evaluating these matters in their own municipality. It assumes, however, that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibilities by following the state leaders for strict soil protection. As previous rapporteur, I know how difficult this is and how much pressure it is to develop areas to create new jobs. Municipalities must take this responsibility seriously and take greater soil protection into account, either alone or through inter-municipal cooperation. As a sufficient measure to reduce the rate of redisposal, the State's agricultural administration was given the right to raise objections to municipal land plans in 2006. The result is that the State's agricultural management has stopped the re-disposal of slightly over 4000 deer-cultivated land. It's probably an area that, roughly speaking, can feed 5,000 people in the North's annual consumption. These figures should also show that this measure has worked. But I can't and will not just direct responsibility to the municipalities. Of course, the State itself also has a great responsibility, not least in the transport sector. I am therefore pleased that the Government has now strengthened its focus on this in a new national transport plan. For the first time, it is clarified that soil protection shall be taken into account at all stages of the planning of the development. Introducing a shelter into the law is another very important measure that I am working on. This measure will ensure that society can protect agricultural land on a sustainable basis from re-disposal. I think it's a paradox that we protect the beach zone to ensure public access, that we make our own landmarks to ensure outdoor life, and that we protect forests to ensure biodiversity, but do not have the same opportunity to protect areas to secure food production areas, which may be the most important purpose. The last measure against redisposal, which I intend to mention in this article, was recently submitted to the Stortinget in Ot.prp. No 44 for 2008-2009. This measure consists of the introduction of a legal framework allowing the county to continuously require individual municipalities to submit their decisions on the re-disposal under the law. The purpose of such a permit is that the county can more easily follow and appeal to individual decisions in the selected municipalities. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about the importance of a strong soil protection to solve the climate problems. The food crisis and the climate crisis are closely linked, as the representative Holten Hemdal also underlined. Food security is, in my opinion, an absolute prerequisite for success in climate policy, because we do not solve the climate problem without people being saturated. Otherwise, we are about to present a climate notification for the agricultural sector. Through its work, we have also become more aware of the great importance of soil protection in producing food with the lowest possible climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2114	I thank the Council of State for a good account. From the undersigned there is no desire to enter a numerical discussion. We've been dealing with the SSB's numbers, and I'm sure we can agree that the numbers that the State Council refers to are equally correct. I'm glad that the Council of State has a vision that he will win the most hearts possible for food soil. I think it's a good vision to work for. The council says that the government has taken many important and long steps, but in his post he also says that we have too much re-disposal of the best food soil. And that's where the challenge is. We see that in the counties and in many municipalities with the best food soil we have a pressure to re-dispose it to other uses. The Council of State emphasises that municipalities have an important responsibility and that strict soil protection needs to be provided. My challenge to the Council of State is: How can we help each other – the municipalities, we as a national assembly and also the professional authorities – to win more hearts for the cause of soil protection, so that we can feed more people within a smaller area by 2050? Because as good administrators, we have a responsibility today to facilitate the feeding of more people in Norway and the world in general by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2123	Like the representative Holten Hemdal, I think it's important that we delete the number discussion. It's unnecessary, and we can totally agree that the ambition is to win more hearts for soil protection, and that the rate of redispatch is too high. But it is important to take into account that focusing on the matter has been useful, it has been useful to work on the matter, and it has not least been helpful to take action that controls the area more and better. I'm busy working further in the same direction. I am dedicated to working with the municipalities. I am concerned that the municipalities will be better able to plan their areas. In particular, I am concerned that through inter-municipal cooperation, the municipalities must see opportunities to realise industrial areas. We've had heavy discussions about soil protection in the Trondheim area, and one of the results of those processes is that the municipalities around Trondheim, and together with Trondheim, are going to look for common areas for nutrient development to address the need to reduce soil redisposal. I believe that the challenges in this area lie primarily around the greater population concentrations, such as cities, agglomerations, in the east, in the west and in central Norway. That's also where we have the best food soil in many ways. A paradox is that here's the greatest pressure, here we have the best food soil, and here's maybe the biggest conflicts in the future. Especially in these areas – in Eastfold, in Westfold, in the East, in Trøndelag – those responsible for municipalities, municipal politicians, must work more consciously with the professionals in order to ensure soil protection. There is no doubt that professionals working in this sector are recommending a much more restrictive practice than is often the concern of local politicians. That is why we have introduced the grounds we have for objecting to and revising decisions. That's why we have to have it. But the best thing would be if we managed to achieve this policy through cooperation, through joint work, through greater awareness. In today’s situation, the need to increase food production is becoming increasingly important. So in Norway, we're going to be one million more people in 20 years. Worldwide, we're increasing by three billion people in 40 years. Obviously, we can't afford to destroy any of the limited resources we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2134	I think it's good to have a commitment to soil protection, and we're going to have respect for the cultivated land that we have here in the country. After all, it's all a limited resource. But it is also true that the Council of State here says that this is primarily a challenge in press areas. The representative, and the interpellant, Holten Hemdal comes from such an area himself — Eastfold — and the undersigned does. I see these challenges and conflicts quite clearly. But those who argue for strong soil protection have a lack of argument about what kind of social development they want. I agree that when we use cultivated land for another purpose, we must be able to demand a high level of exploitation. But soil protection policy cannot stop other types of social development, which we all, including in this Chamber, see as absolutely necessary. It has, among other things, dealing with urban development, which you want to have in press areas, where it is essential to be able to build up the sites you have. It's about, among other things, in the area of Akershus where I come from, where all the traditional dense places are located in the middle of the cultivated land. There are also railway stations and the other public nodes. So if you want to build up and strengthen the collective nodes and get away from car addiction, you have to be willing to sacrifice some cultivated land. The central party is the spokesman for more money, even if you don't get a say in it in the government. So, if you want a four-field highway, you have to accept that you're building down some cultivated land, otherwise you're going to have to be honest and say that we're going to get along with the road standard we have. The same applies to the development of railway lines, for example: in Eastfold. It also has to do with the development of nutrition. I've heard arguments like no, we can't take the work of the farmer who runs that plot, or on that farm. But it is clear that many municipalities find it attractive to establish a business with 500 jobs, and then give way to one job that may not be so important. So here's a lot of questions that I don't think soil protection -- if I'm going to be able to use such an expression -- is clearly not responding to. What kind of social development do you want? If you want to take a Lundtägen position, namely to significantly reverse social development, it's honest – but I don't hear councillor Breck or Holten Hemdal say anything about it. Then we have a law of law. You want to tighten up the use of Marka, which now makes it absolutely impossible, for example. for people in Oslo, to build in Marka. Also in the case of the municipalities in Akershus around Oslo, we cannot now build in Marka. The Marka Act is the greatest threat to soil protection in the Central East that has come in recent times. To put it another way, the working party rapporteur in Rälingen, who is outside Lillestrøm: the only option we have now is that we build cultivated land and offer houseboats to people on the island. That's when the Marka Law came. Here you're not clear at all about what you want. I'm calling for that. So the question is, can we help to ensure the number of deer cultivated by re-growth, for example:? That's a question I'd like to challenge the Council of States. Does he wish to contribute to supporting innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2151	I will give the interpellant Holten Hemdal honor to address an important theme of agricultural policy. Soil protection has been little up to discussion in the Storing during this period. I guess the interpellation text says why this isn't a dream theme for the red-green parts. The promise of halving the decline is ambitious if it is to be achieved without dramatic consequences for many municipalities and communities. I share the interpellant's description of the global challenges related to population growth and food needs. This is an important theme from a generation perspective. However, it is essential that we bring this debate to a somewhat more concrete and realistic level in our own national reality. In the case of Norwegian food production, it is a fact that, despite a high rate of conversion and a strong decrease in the number of uses, Norwegian farmers provide a relatively stable proportion of Norwegian food consumption. The right is concerned that Norway should have a significant food production. But it is mainly the arrangement of framework conditions, customs barriers and efficiency that determines the amount of Norwegian food production. The rate of re-disposal in the case of Norwegian agricultural land may be presented in different ways. Re-disposal is high in the number of measures — if you convert it to e.g. the number of football courses made by the interpellant. About 3 pst. of the area in Norway is cultivated land. This will be done by some participants in the debate, among others. the Minister of Agriculture and Food, produced as small. But that part of the rhetoric seems to me to be a little bit too simple. Norway is a relatively large country measured in terms of area, but with few inhabitants, the area under cultivation is not insignificant against the number of inhabitants: 2.2 against 2.7 at global level, which was covered by the Council of State. The amount of land grown is relatively stable in Norway if you look at it completely. Total agricultural area of 10,3 million – that was status in 2006. This is a decrease of 0.36 pst. measured against 1999, if we read the table to the Statistical Central Bureau. It's not exactly a rage. If we look at the full area, the decrease from 1999 to 2006 is 2.7 pst. It's a little bit bigger, but it's still not a dramatic decline, as I see it. Soil protection policies have some aspects against local democracy, popular rule, rural development and private property rights, which the Right takes seriously. Redisposal takes place through local decisions in municipalities and counties. The aim is, as a general rule, housing, industrial development or road construction. For this reason, it is often the case, if we are to go a little deeper into this debate, that redeployment takes place in the context of measures that provide an increased basis for housing and activity in District Norway. The right, therefore, believes that we need a more balanced approach to this. A soil protection policy contributing to increased centralisation of housing and industrial activities is not acceptable. At the top, too strong government governance in soil protection policy will go across district policy objectives, which I believe are also shared by those involved in the soil protection debate. An example we got to watch TV a few weeks ago. It concerned the reallocation of an agricultural area in the municipality of Liv Signe Navarsete. Here, re-disposal was supported by the Center Party, despite the fact that it led to the degradation of first-class food soil. Redisposal often takes place with the local blessing of the Center Party, because it strengthens the development of the municipality. Another example is mentioned in the United Nations on May 12. In the case of the municipality of Skau, where the Ministry of the Environment has followed up objections to five development areas — three residential areas and two economic areas. The rapporteur, Mr P. Husby, from the Central Party, comments on one of the decisions as follows: ‘I find the foundation of the ministry totally hopeless’. I do not think it is acceptable if soil protection concerns completely outrun the country's municipal and county politicians. Here, the Central Party speaks with two tongues in its homage to the People's Government. I think it's a paradox that the centre party in the area by area leaves to the county and the state to manage the local land management. I am also surprised to see how the Ministry of Agriculture and Food actively markets matters in which the State Agriculture Administration has overrun the national government in matters of redeployment into road construction, housing and industrial activities. In this context, I would like to point out that the Right has proposed in this Chamber to suspend the possibility for the State Agriculture Administration to review decisions taken by the County Agriculture Board. However, the right considers soil protection to be important. We should look at aid schemes that can stimulate the reprocessing of new areas. I'm excited about the Council's reaction to it. And we also have to think about how we're using the areas. In this context, it is a paradox that organic food production is actually more land-consuming than normal food production. In a global perspective, it is, in fact, a great paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2186	This interpellation addresses an important issue that also has an overall perspective and a long-term perspective on soil and food production. Then we have the classic dilemma, there's going to be a conflict between the development goals and the organisation of infrastructure both in the vicinity of larger cities and in the districts. But if we raise a little bit and look at the overall perspective, Norway is a small country, globally. We have small areas, and we're so rich that we could probably buy all of our food from poor countries that really need their own food. Then we're on a topic of solidarity, and the question is – when we're as rich as we are in this country – whether it's right that we can't actually afford to produce our own food because of the costs. However, as many people have experienced, there is a growing population in the world that will take a greater part in increasing living standards, and then world food production will have to double by 2050 – and food demand will gradually increase. There are two areas that characterise the development of all welfare societies, and there are developments in the field of food and energy. When we see that large population groups are now going to take part in this prosperity development, these will be two areas that are being asked for. It is therefore important to have a long-term perspective on soil and the basis for food production. Then we also have the problem of climate – biofuels. It's been said that if the United States had 10 pst. blending biofuels produced on cultivated land would disappear into it by one third of the United States' area. It's a dilemma in that context. So it's obvious that these are challenges in many areas, but we have to have the overall perspective, that food soils have to be taken care of to a large extent just to think in the long term, to new generations that will need the food soil. Then we have the problem of urbanization. Around the town, we often have the best food soil. Then we get a pressure in terms of how we are going to facilitate transport for short distances into people's services – rail has been mentioned here, etc. – and we get into a dilemma between e.g. fuel consumption and soil degradation in order to obtain an effective stocking density. The paradox is that by urbanization, people are being built up around densely populated areas, but at the same time, people are moving from the districts, and the earth is being repopulated because there are no people living there. So it's important to try to organise some incentives in planning, and we have to trust that the municipal elected representatives have a general perspective, while facing concrete development tasks. For the Left, the local government is crucial, but there must be some leads and incentives to take care of cultivated land is useful in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2203	Like several speakers, I think this interpellation is very important. As pointed out, as a nation, we have to produce food for the population. Today we are not really in a position to do that. We're dependent on imports. And there may be situations -- there have been such situations before, although fortunately there have been many years since now -- where it's not that easy to get imported food. It can be in a situation of dissatisfaction in the world. It may also be in situations where diseases occur, which we have actually been close to just the last ten years – it has been just before you have had to close the borders to the rest of the world due to different types of animal diseases. It is clear that in such a situation it is absolutely essential that we manage to feed our own people, and in such a context one must have a long perspective. It's mentioned here that we'll be one million more inhabitants in a few years – and that's a relatively short perspective. We who are at Stortinget must dare to raise our eyes perhaps 100 years ahead. Then it's important that we be able to see these dimensions when we're discussing this. I think there have been many good posts. When the representative of Kongshaug made his statement, I decided to withdraw because I thought he said so much wisely that I could hardly say anything that was more complementary. He touched a lot of the central sides of this. I must allow myself a little polemics with the representative Kielland Asmyhr. He points out that it is so demanding in the congested areas around Oslo that you have to use both Marka and cultivated land. Then I would like to say that you have to make it possible to find residential areas that are located outside Oslomarka and the best food soil in the East, where people can live. Is it not possible to get the land and land of the best food soil or in Oslomarka, well, then people get to take the consequences of it and settle in places where possible. That's what political governance is. It is not obvious that you should be allowed to build a villa in Oslomarka or on the best food soil in the East. Then we must dare to take political control. But I'm going to stop here. I think it is very important that this question be raised. We have to have a long-term perspective, and we have to do everything we can to bring down the least possible food soil in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2216	I would like to thank you for your kind words about putting this topic on the agenda. I think we have had a good debate, the little half hour we have spent on this topic. I am also pleased that Council of State Breck supports the fact that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to those concerned. It is an important principle for our policy development, and it was also an important principle when the Bondevik II government made the changes we made in this area. Yes, it is that soil protection is linked to other policy areas. There should be no doubt about that. It's also a paradox that our best food soil is around cities and towns, and that's the one that's most under pressure. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr believes that there is a logical lack of being for strong soil protection and at the same time thinking about social development. I do not agree with such a presentation. I think it is well possible to drive good social development in a sustainable way and to stand for strong soil protection. It is more demanding – there is no doubt about it – but it is completely possible. Kielland Asmyhr also brought up the law on land that Stortinget has dealt with earlier this spring. It is quite clear from the Christian People's Party that the best protection of Marka is through use. Therefore, the Christian People's Party spent a lot of time getting sport into the purpose section and also giving agriculture the opportunity to further develop through a better construction paragraph in this law. I think it's important that the Storting through various debates brings up the soil protection issue for discussion. If we're not conscious of our responsibilities, it's hard to ask those who are closest to the decisions, to stand up to the pressure when it's there. Good social development is to be pursued, but it is fully possible, as the Christian People's Party sees it, to drive good social development in cities and agglomerations with a strong soil protection policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2231	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate. I think it is very important that we manage to raise such types of issues into the landfill – not least that we have an overall perspective on it and address the more practical challenges. The overall perspective is food production in the world in the years to come. It is clear that today’s degradation of food soil in Norway will have consequences for the living conditions of our descendants. It will have consequences for how to feed the population in the future. Climate change changes change the assumptions for food production across the globe. There are many aspects that have influence. I would like to stress that those who today allow good food soil to be destroyed assume a great responsibility for future generations. It is also the case that other countries are concerned about it. Many rich countries are now competing to buy or rent land in Africa. The Korean giant company Daewoo has just concluded a 99-year lease for large areas of Madagascar's best agricultural country. This is a policy that I take a great distance from. But it's interesting to record that it's happening in today's situation. The reason is that different countries are seeing to it that there will be a shortage of food in the future. Of course, the goal must be that all countries take advantage of their own possibilities for food production. This is also my starting point for strengthening soil protection in Norway. So I'm not underestimating that there are contradictions. Nor do I see that there are simple solutions to this issue in different areas in different municipalities. There will be contradictions that have to be solved. Then the most important tool we have is to strengthen the planning provisions of the Law on Planning and Building. There are a number of instruments in the Planning and Building Act that municipalities, counties and countries can use centrally to ensure soil protection. Since the report of the Earth Conservation Group came, to which Holten Hemdal referred, a new part of the Planning and Building Act has been adopted. This law has given us new tools to help strengthen soil protection. In addition, important instruments are continued, including: the objector. The last thing I want to mention is that we have to be very busy strengthening regional planning as a tool to find better solutions. Planning for several municipalities as a whole is important in order to take the right overall grip, not least in terms of location of nutrient land. Regional plans may be used for the purpose of establishing long-term development directions and agricultural boundaries. It may be used to introduce densification requirements in existing construction zones. It can help promote transport projects, national transport plans, etc. We have experience from Rogaland and the Hamar region that shows that regional plans in the area of land and transport have a positive impact on land use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2247	That being the case, it is no. 13 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2253	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2262	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to organise schools with operational boards where parents/parents, in combination with the presentation of the fees, represent a majority of the users’ board.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2287	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 10, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 11, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 12 and 13, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 14-18, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 14–18, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that vocational training in secondary school may also consist of shorter courses of education of 1 or 2 years, where the pupils acquire professional competence.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a pilot scheme in which schools can use individual training plans to dispose of the 25 pst-framework for professional subjects and the financial incentives that can be used in such an experiment.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to facilitate schools to make use of the model of 3 days in a company and 2 days in a school per year. week and where the training is completed after 2 or 3 years.» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to increase the apprenticeship allowance to be made at the same relative level as at the time of the introduction of Reform 94.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that enterprises that actively contribute to school training receive tax benefits from it.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2342	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 and 13, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a grant scheme for enterprises that accept students to practice already in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals so that the apprentice's grant goes directly from the State to the individual enterprise, not via the county budgets, in order to ensure flexibility and free choice across the county boundaries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2363	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the start-up of own schools and the own training of students in the enterprise by enterprises or associations of enterprises.’ [[branch associations]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2377	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider removing the employer’s fee for the training part of the apprentice or apprentice in the company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2391	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2472	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2496	As an alternative, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2539	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2546	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2 by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2573	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to refer matters to the statutory audit of the relevant laws as soon as possible so that shared care and residence for children become the main rule in the event of a breach of life’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2587	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a treatment offer for men who commit violence against women and children is made available in all counties.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2612	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2620	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 27 April 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of introducing a compensation scheme for persons or organisations voluntarily caring for lost and helpless animals.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2641	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 27 April 2009: ‘The Government requests the Government to ensure a coherent and consistent practice of the Food Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2647	The Christian People's Party has also announced here that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2663	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 27 April 2009: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a central register of grazing cases due to predators.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2678	In Case No: 12 and 13 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-12.ana.ud1482e2748	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
