ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e54	Honourable co-representatives! The former depositors Bodil Aakre and Rolf Ketil Bjørn have resigned at death. Former Depositary Representative of Right Bodil Aakre died on November 8, 2008, at the age of 85. Bodil Aakre was born on September 7, 1922 in Oslo. She graduated from Artium in 1942 and went to law school before the University of Oslo was closed. She took the law in 1948 and traveled to Hammerfest the day after the censorship had fallen. She was a lawyer in Hammerfest in 1948–1949 before becoming a judge in Alta. In 1951-1957 Bodil Aakre had his own trial in Alta. In 1957 she became a legal consultant at the Nordland Agricultural Company in Bodø. In 1973 she was appointed a janitor in Brønnøysund, an official she held until she retired in 1988. From 1980 she was also head of the Løsøreregisteret in Brønnøysund. She was very committed – both as a sorenist and as rapporteur – to the work of adding the register to Brønnøysund, and it is not without reason that she was later named the Mother of the Brunn Island Registers. Bodil Aakre became involved in political activity when she came to Finnmark. Already in 1948 she became president at Hammerfest Höjrekvinner's club. In 1955-1957, she was a member of the County Council of Finnmark Right. At the election in 1965 she was elected as the first representative of the Right of the North, but met as a representative already after a few days when Håkon Kyllingmark became Minister of Transport in the government Borten. Bodil Aakre moved up as a representative when Højre's second representative from Nordland, Harald Warholm, died in February 1967. She was re-elected for the period 1969–73, while in the period 1973–77 she was again the first alternate. At Stortinget, she was first a member of the Administrative Committee. After her 1969 election, she was a member of the Church and Education Committee, and from October 1970 she was a member of the Justice Committee. She was a member of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council for several years. In the years 1969–72, she was a member of the Committee to investigate the Constitutional Control of the United Kingdom. After the years at Stortinget, Bodil Aakre was again involved in local policy. In the years 1975–79, she was the rapporteur in Brønnøy, and in the following parliamentary term she was a member of the Presidency. In addition, she had a number of public offices, both locally and at national level. For many years she was vice-chairman of the boards of both the Labour Directorate and the Labour Inspectorate. In the years 1972-77 she was a member of the Committee to investigate the Norwegian Transport Plan, while in the early 1980s she was a member of the committee which assessed whether the State Power Plants were to be separated from the NVE, and of the so-called Telecom, which looked at the organisation of the Telecom. Membership of the Ageing Border Council, the Sterilisation Council and the Advisory Board of the Maritime Directorate are involved in complementing the image of Bodil Aakre as a highly socially committed person with great confidence in the wider community. She also held local management positions in organisations such as the Norden Association and the Riksmålsbund. Bodil Aakre was often contentious because of his clear positions. She characterized herself as "dark blue" and was always prepared to fight for her opinions. At the same time, she always had an open mind for the problems of her fellow human beings. At Stortinget she was one of the few who spoke the lonely thing. As a representative of North Norway, she was also strongly involved in regional policy issues, not least in industrial and social matters. And she was always characterized by a rough way of being. She always struggled with 'open visor', and no one was ever in doubt about where you had Bodil Aakre. Former Swedish Depositary Representative for SV Rolf Ketil Bjørn died on 24 November 2008, at 70 years of age. Rolf Ketil Bjørn was SV’s biggest representative for eight years, from 1989 to 1997. Several of us, who are big-time representatives today, have had the pleasure of meeting in Stortinget with him. With Bjørn's departure, we've lost an open and committed person and a generous and popular man. Bjørn was a member of the Socialist People's Party from the beginning together with Finn Gustavsen and Berge Furre in the 1960s. He participated in all the major political battles in which the party was involved, such as the fight against the nuclear strategy of the United States and NATO, the conflict with the Labour Party and the debate on Norwegian EC and EU membership. The years he met at the Stortinget, he sat in the defense committee. His struggle for the third path in defence policy – a path where neither the United States nor the Soviet Union was based – was not free. But this fight at the same time fostered a politician who stood for what he meant, and who did not let himself be frightened by adversity. Rolf Ketil Bjørn was a raw and engaged person. He had his own ability to get in touch with people, because he was happy with people. He preferred the direct conversation with the voters. He was always on the side with the weakest in society. His commitment to injustice and social distress was real, among other things. because he had seen poverty in the postwar years. One of the last things he worked with locally was to ensure the further operation of Cafe X in Tromsø, an offer for former drug users. SV leader and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has described Rolf Ketil Bjørn as an open and illegitimate person who did not exist for himself. But at the same time he took the SV and the policy seriously. Rolf Ketil Bjørn was an important contributor to the fact that SV has gone from pure cultivation of the opposition role to seeking power to put its policy into practice. In the years before and after Stortinget, he represented SV in Tromsø City Council. He was one of the main architects behind SV/Work Party cooperation in the city in 1999. This cooperation was used as a reference for the SV management when the party applied for government power in 2005 with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Rolf Ketil Bjørn was not a man who sought power for power. As an SV, he wanted to get to something – something bigger than himself. It marked his whole function, and with the SV in government from 2005 he felt to see his own vision led completely to the goal in his time. We remember Bodil Aakre and Rolf Ketil Bjørn for their work on the Stortinget and brighten peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e90	The representative of Torstein Rudihagen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e98	I will, on behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Olemic Thommessen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, propose a strategy to give active farmers greater opportunity to own the land they run.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e119	There are several reasons why I have chosen to promote this interpellation. One of them, of course, is that Norwegian agriculture is probably the world’s most regulated industry. It weakens the farmers, and it also weakens the important value creation to be done in Norwegian agriculture. I could frame a number of areas where Norwegian agriculture is significantly regulated, but in particular in the area of ownership/property, there are significant regulations, and we saw at the beginning of today's meeting that the representative Torbjørn Hansen promoted a proposal for a representative that, in my opinion, is also a very important element in getting further liberalisation of the ownership of agriculture. In the almost four years I have been a big-time representative and a member of the Business Committee and have been responsible for agricultural matters for the Progress Party, I have noticed that there have been an increasing number of enquiries from people out there, from farmers, from landowners, who react strongly to this legislation. For there are many out there now as in line with changing social conditions, in line with the changing agricultural conditions, the increasing number of daily incomes, the choice of a different occupation, and the desire to sell their agricultural property. Then there is a significant problem when – and in many places in the country – you have to sell an agricultural property of many hundred goals with forest and inland land, with significant property stock, and only get a small sum for it. In central areas you can get a few million for a large agricultural property, while you have to pay a lot more for a flat. It puts people in a big dilemma. You have invested everything you've had of wealth and income in the property over several generations, and then you'll find that because of a state regulation you don't get to sell the property to that market is willing to pay for it so that you can establish yourself in a new life – in another profession and in another dwelling. I just have to say that it is not easy to be a big representative when you get many enquiries where people are crying on the phone, is deeply despaired and do not know what to do. It is strong, and I would assume that there are many more large-scale representatives who receive similar requests. People feel simply razed, or deprived of everything they own and have, if they have, because of sickness, disability, etc. not be able to sit on a large property requiring full-time care — to show how demanding it is to own an agricultural property today. One thing is to rent the land away to another farmer, but it's very demanding to sit on this kind of property. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is, is this the way we want to treat people in a modern society? Doesn't a modern society require us to treat people who have been in a difficult situation in many ways, and who want to make a choice in their lives, in a proper and respectful way? As I have said, ownership is almost entirely aside from agriculture. This is hard for people to understand. When I try to explain people in Sørum, where I come from, how this works, they get completely shocked. So it's a question of why those who own agricultural properties are definitely going to be treated differently than people who own other types of property. If the point is, as I understand it, that the Central Party is the spokesman for protecting farmers by being able to get hold of properties cheaply, why not protect other groups in society? If the point is to protect groups in society, why not protect groups that have far less resources than farmers? What about minimum pensioners, disabled, single parents, sick people who have problems getting a living that meets their everyday needs? In addition, we see in many places in the country that very many agricultural properties suffer from a lack of maintenance, and relocation has become a major problem. Today we have around 160 000 agricultural properties, while we only have 47 000 active farmers by the turn of the year. 20 pst. of all agricultural properties are uninhabited and, of course, have less follow-up than they should have. This leads to decay in Building Norway, and it's not lucky. This price policy also leads to very few agricultural properties, at least of some size, on the market. It also makes it almost impossible for people who want to establish themselves in agriculture to obtain an agricultural property. Of course, if you don't get paid for the property, why sell it? It also means that many skilled farmers do not get to buy a property. It also prevents active farmers from being bought into neighbouring properties or additional properties that can in the long run strengthen the operation of the property they operate. Studies show that up to 400,000 Norwegians want to purchase a farm. It's very positive, because it means that there are many who are willing to invest in agriculture. It must be positive in these times, how many people in agriculture feel that there are tough times. The legislation also leads to a significant red tape. We can, for example: take the case of Obere Vilberg Farm, where the Minister of Agriculture now made sense and made sure that the interested party was able to purchase the farm. However, this case has been dealt with several times in the municipality of Sørum, several times in the district of Oslo and Akershus, several times in the state agricultural authorities and a few times in the Ministry of Agriculture. Is that the way we want to use public resources in a modern society? Is that the way we want to organize our society? I think most people would say no to that. I also feel now, when people contact me, that many sellers say, "What do you do?" What would you recommend? Then I said that I cannot recommend anything other than doing what the legislation says. People tell me that there's a huge million under the table here. You accept the price that the government puts in place, and you sort of sort of arrange it so that the buyer and the seller agree anyway. Then I ask, does the legislation ensure that the system works the way we want it to work? I am also pleased that the centre partisan prince and head of the nutrition committee, Ola Borten Moe, agree with the Progress Party. In an article in the nations on Thursday, October 2nd, 2008, I see that in many ways he supports the views that I am advocating here, and I expect that there is a renewal going on in the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e145	I thank you for the interpellation. The discussion that has been started here is important, and we are also going to continue it by changing the law we are talking about in different contexts, later in the spring. The treatment of concession cases relating to agricultural property is governed by the new concession law adopted in the Stockholm Stortinget in 2003. This law was passed with the support of all the parties in Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party. The purpose of the law is to regulate the movement of agricultural property in order to achieve effective protection of agricultural production areas and to ensure the most beneficial ownership and use conditions for society. Section 9 of the Act maintained price controls only for properties to be used for agricultural purposes. One main reason for having price controls on the acquisition of agricultural property was that the consideration of agriculture as an industry means that other groups of users should not be allowed to operate the price of production land in such a way that farmers are displaced. It was in the preliminary work on the new law, among other things. referred to the opinion of the majority of the Economic and Social Committee in connection with the examination of the notification of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. Here it was stated that in a situation where society contributes to the performance of agricultural property in the case of transfers to industry, it must be an objective to maintain sound price developments in agricultural property. I believe that price control is an important and targeted tool to ensure the performance of agricultural property, and I believe that there is a broad political consensus that we should have such a price control when agricultural property changes owner. When dealing with the price question, this should include, inter alia: particular attention is paid to whether the agreed price corresponds to socially sound price developments. A socially sound price shall be understood as a price which contributes to the achievement of the objectives of agricultural policy. The aim of price controls is to ensure the recruitment of active professionals to the industry and to facilitate ownership of agricultural property that provides a basis for good and long-term resource management. Furthermore, provision shall be made for income opportunities and social conditions that create stable full-time and part-time agricultural jobs. Price controls also have a bearing on framework conditions and financial transfers to agriculture. Increased prices lead to increased costs of capital in agriculture. Detailed guidelines for price control are laid down in a separate circular setting out the valuation principles for soil, forest, buildings and rights. The price control does not apply when the purchase price is less than NOK 750000. Today, a maximum of NOK 500000 can be added to the accommodation. Interest on capitalisation on land, forests and rights, etc. is today 4 pst. Between 2000 and 2006, there was an average increase of 80 pst. in the purchase price for built-up agricultural property in free sale, while the corresponding development for residential property was 56 pst. The price of an agricultural property shall reflect the value of the property for agricultural purposes and as a place of residence. I believe that the rational practice of price control is an important tool for ensuring sustainable agriculture in line with the agricultural policy of the majority of the population and that it is an advantage for the industry. In order to stimulate the placing on the market and sale of agricultural property, which I also believe is important, I will assess the content of this circular and, in particular, make sure that the level of housing value is correct in order to ensure the sound practice of legislation and to meet the challenges, which are different in different parts of the country. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr claims to have seen examples of ‘family standing back if you want to sell an agricultural property’. It's hard to understand this. What I can understand, however, is that some farmers who sell their property may feel that they are not getting enough money back for land, buildings and many years of effort. However, it is easy to forget the situation of the next owner when you withdraw yourself. These include: in order to secure the operational and income opportunities for the next owner, we cannot have a fully marketable price development on agricultural properties as it is on other types of real estate. I see price control as an important tool to keep prices of agricultural property at a reasonable level, adapted both to the profitability of the industry and to an active agricultural policy where market prices and government budget appropriations are set in negotiations with industry. In my view, it is not appropriate to combine a strong and active agricultural policy where society takes responsibility for income opportunities and framework conditions, with a fully free pricing of properties based on a market-liberalist approach. Therefore, prices of agricultural property must be assessed in a long-term perspective and not according to individual generation expectations. The concession law provides for a national agricultural policy, and it is important that all bodies dealing with matters under the law follow the legislation and comply with political leadership. The municipality has decision-making powers in concession cases, and most of the cases are decided quickly and effectively by what I believe is the correct result from the municipalities. In 2006, the Ministry examined the functioning of price controls under the concession law and was practised around municipalities and county agricultural boards. The studies showed: that the prices of agricultural property have increased more than the prices of other real estate in recent years that municipalities do not follow price rounds in 15 p.m. of the cases where different practices result in similar properties being highly priced, depending on the municipality in which they are located, It is not to be overlooked that practice is particularly a problem in press areas, but it is also a problem in municipalities with a political majority who disagree with the fact that price regulation is an important instrument in agricultural policy. It is a prerequisite for the implementation of national policies in this area that the overall body supervises compliance with the legal rules and national targets in this area locally, in the municipalities. This also has a side to citizens' legal certainty, including: non-discrimination and predictability considerations. It is surprising that the representative of Kielland Asmyhr characterises this important function of the overall agricultural authorities as ‘abuse’ to local authorities. So I have no plans to make any changes to the main system we now have for price regulation when purchasing agricultural properties. On the other hand, I want to look at the circular that regulates the system, and see if it can be implemented in another way and thus create increased flexibility. As far as transparency is concerned, I intend to give the county councillors an opportunity to gain better insight into the local authorities' practice of price control. Later in the spring session, I will promote a bill on changes in the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the nodule, such as: will include proposals to improve the control of the treatment of such matters by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e185	I have to say that the answer from the Council of State was as expected. There is not much innovation in the Ministry of Agriculture — nor in this area — at present. That's very regrettable. It will only lead to Norwegian agriculture continuing to deteriorate. What I think, however, is very interesting in the articles of the Council of State, is that he announces that he will come to Stortinget during the spring session – and it is not too early, when we now go to the end of this period – with proposals for legislative changes. But I was disappointed that the Council of State would clearly propose further restrictions on the county state's ability to override local democracy in the municipalities. The Progress Party wants to remove all of this legislation. The purchaser and the seller must be able to agree on the transfer and price without the intervention of the public. In order to have a public assessment system, it must be done as close to the population as possible, and it is then right that it should be located in the municipality. We cannot have a system in which state bodies constantly review the assessment of local politicians, as is happening today, because this will mean that very few will find it useful – and proper use of time – to be local politicians. I know well that the local politicians in the municipality of Sørum were quite frustrated after this case about the Obere Vilberg farm. It is positive that the Council of State will look at this with the housing value, there has to be something done. Let me quote Ola Borten Moe in the Nations October 2, 2008: ‘Very few agricultural properties are traded on the open market in Norway, with the obvious consequence that fewer are able to realise their own farm dream. So what does the price regulation have to do with this? I think many heifers sell because they don't realize the values the property represents, nor do they get enough capital to re-establish themselves in the ordinary property market. The values and possibilities are thus locked in both for the buyer and the seller. Agriculture thus becomes a more static industry than it should be. On the contrary, it should be a goal for the authorities to increase the rate of turnover on farm, because it gives new impulses and new blood into an industry that needs it, while giving more people the opportunity to escape." He also mentions the argument about a higher price. [[The President clubs.]] We'll take that later. Does the Council of State Ola Borten Moes share this view? Or is this something that Ola Borten Moe doesn't have coverage for in the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e209	Since the representative Kiellend Asmyhr has mentioned a specific matter, the issue of price control at the Obere Vilberg farm, I would like to comment on it first. The price of an agricultural property shall, as I said, be based on a separate assessment in the individual case. However, under the law it is not that a concession request should be rejected without further delay even if the price is too high on the basis of the guidelines. It is, as was done in this case, an opportunity to take into account other relevant elements that fall within the scope of the law. In addition to achieving effective protection of agricultural production areas, the aim of the Act is to achieve the most beneficial ownership and use conditions for society. During the procedure, it may be appropriate to consider whether the relevant social considerations indicate a need to give up the prioritisation. It's part of the law and part of the practice. In 2008, the Ministry had some individual issues referred to in the media, where the issue of price control as an instrument in general came up for debate. It was the matter raised by Kielland Asmyhr, the representative, about Caroline Marie Hagen's purchase of the Obere Vilberg farm in the municipality of Sørum, which perhaps created the most debate. The price was taken into account here, in isolation, that the concession request should have been rejected. However, in view of the special cultural historical value of the property, the Ministry nevertheless considered that the concession request should be granted. The decision in that case shows that in specific cases where there are other important societal reasons, there can be a concession, even if the price is too high on the basis of the guidelines. We come to Stortinget with proposals for changes in both the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the nodel. One of the objectives of this work is to simplify the laws, and not least to make it easier for municipalities to follow up the legislative work. I believe that one should still have price control as an instrument. But as I said in my first post, we will now look at the mentioned circular. We will assess whether it adequately addresses the need for increased sales of properties, which I also believe are important in order to avoid any of the land problems we currently have. It's very important when we talk about the role of municipalities, not least the right of objection of the SLF, that we try to find schemes that create equality for the law, that each member of this society be treated equally. There is also the intention of this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e222	The Progress Party and the Labour Party have a completely different view of agricultural policy. That's why we have completely different positions in relation to what the interpellant is doing here today. The black poll by Kielland Asmyhr on the consequences of ownership policy is unknown to me. Fortunately, not everything is as heavy and black in the countryside as it should be. The peasants are in many ways administrators of the great society's values, and on behalf of all of us they take care of the cultural landscape, are important actors when it comes to district policy, and last but not least, they are food producers. According to the Labour Party’s view, price control is an important tool to ensure the values the majority in this room want to last, both before agricultural policy and in a regional policy context. The Minister for Agriculture answers this in a question hour in the fall: ‘In my opinion, it is not appropriate to combine a strong and active agricultural policy where society takes responsibility for income opportunities and framework conditions, with a free pricing of properties based on market liberalism. Therefore, prices of agricultural property must be assessed in a long-term perspective and not according to individual generation expectations.» I fully agree with the Minister of Agriculture. We have a common objective: agricultural properties are to be used for business purposes, for food production, and for housing. We want farmers to be able to own their own means of production and the land they use. We do not need to make it impossible to enter agriculture, but to ensure that active farmers are recruited and to facilitate ownership of agricultural property that provides the basis for both long-term and good resource management. Then the price level cannot be higher than that reflecting the value of the property's operating base and the value of the property as a dwelling. A release of price regulation is therefore not a good idea, according to the Labour Party's view. If the entrance ticket becomes for animals, I think many will refuse to enter the industry, and fewer will see themselves able to take over. The result will then be less use in service. The Labour Party will still ensure that agricultural property should not be a speculative object in a market. Now it is not the case that all the legislation relating to agricultural property is a priority and must be defended at each price, including the Minister of Agriculture, who was involved in and signalled the review. Work is in progress in the Department on simplifying and clarifying important parts of agricultural legislation. The rules will be more targeted, more accurate and easier to understand and enforce, but there is also a point that prices should not be kept artificially low. The price growth of agricultural property has increased monthly over the last few years. It varies greatly from municipality to municipality, and it reflects how much of our poor country is. All in all, we in the Labour Party believe that today's price regulation works well, and that practices to a certain extent follow price developments elsewhere in society. It should also be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e244	The interpellant addresses an important theme of agricultural policy. Price control is a central element of a comprehensive set of regulations that, in the opinion of the Right, places considerable restrictions on the development of Norwegian agriculture. This is not a new debate, and the interpellant itself and many others have addressed this issue during this majority period. In the right, we have been working to deregulate agriculture and strengthen ownership for decades, and in this period, the Right has proposed to remove price controls, remove housing obligations and remove the sharing ban in the soil law. I think it is important that we keep up the pressure in this debate, which I will characterise as a debate on a completely obviously over-regulated Norwegian agriculture. Price control is an antisocial system that has been removed in almost all areas of society in Norway, as well as in the rest of the Western world. In all other areas and in all other industries, whether based on natural resources or not, state price control is unmistakable. Farming is a private property, a property that has in many cases been developed by a family over generations. The fact that, on a diabolical basis, the country is regulating the sales value of a farm on the basis of a calculation of the economic operating base and other conditions is undoubtedly a gross infringement of ownership. We receive, like the interpellant, many enquiries from people who feel completely overwhelmed in such cases. Price control has many consequences. The obvious thing is that the owner of the farm can lose large values on sale. This means that people who leave agriculture are quickly left behind when entering an ordinary housing market, which is not exactly price control. Price control means that the farmer does not have real ownership. When the country then regulates the price and transfers the value to the buyer, the purchaser becomes at one time or another, if the legislation is softened or if a derogation is granted, the owner of the values that the State has regulated away from the seller. That's clearly unfair. This mechanism also has several serious additional consequences. Farmers who expect to sell the use in the foreseeable future will risk losing new investments made and which are obviously positive in relation to the operating base of the use as a result of price regulation. Thus, many lose an important motive for refurbishment of houses, for refurbishment of agricultural land and for refurbishment of the operating base. At a time of rapid change in agriculture, there is little doubt that price control is a brake block in relation to upgrading the standard for Norwegian agriculture for the future. As the interpellant points out, the concession treatment of agricultural property results in a significant bureaucracy both in the municipalities, at regional level and in the state. The setting of a price is not a simple exercise, and there are a number of dispensations. The regulation thus steals resources from the budgets that could go directly to the farmers. Another problem is that, in many cases, the state is overrun by municipalities and local authority. This will also give the regulatory mechanism a clear impact on local democracy and popular rule. Now it is a well-known matter that today's red-green government wants as much government as possible control at the expense of the people's government. That, I think, is a clearly negative development. In my opinion, the price control, the ban on sharing, the obligation to live and the law of no part of the land are relatively paralysing in terms of agricultural conversion. Obstruction of structural development is clearly a left-hand objective, but this is not a matter of intervention when we see a rapid change in agriculture, despite these political desires. The consequences of a fixed regime for the marketing of farm and agricultural land are serious for Norwegian agriculture. Today, the right has promoted a Document No. Eight proposals to give active farmers greater opportunity to own their land. What happens when people leave the farm and don't feel like selling agricultural land is that the land becomes rent land for active farmers in the neighborhood. We have had a halve of use in the period 1989–2007. Looking at an almost parallel period, 1979–2007, the volume of leased land in Norway has doubled. The situation today is that almost 40 pst. of the agricultural area in Norway is land under rent. So the consequence of socialism in agriculture is that Norwegian farmers are becoming loanees on their own account. The effect of this development is that the farmers do not see themselves worthy of refurbishment of agricultural land. It also makes them not sufficiently operational if they are to invest in new installations and new means of operation. There is no doubt that agriculture needs extensive deregulation in respect of ownership. There are major reforms that can be implemented quickly and that will have a positive impact on ensuring a robust agriculture that produces food and secures the cultural landscape throughout the country, without costing an extra crown over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e272	The Interpellant from the Progress Party claims that the ownership of agriculture has a weak position, and asks whether the Government will remove the price regulation system. Christian People's Party is not unanimous in the claim of the Advance Party. We believe that this must be seen in the light of a very central objective of Norwegian agricultural policy, namely that there should be people living around on the backyards of the country. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the deportation from gardening. There is just enough variation between the different parts of the country, with relatively many bussets on the backyards of central agricultural municipalities in the Mjø region, around Oslofjord, on Jären and in Trøndelag. But there are also very many agricultural estates without permanent settlement in North Norway and in smaller central agricultural municipalities. The Progress Party and the Right want to remove the obligation – and thus represents a policy that, after all, will make things worse. Without any obligation to own more than 100 targets, a market opens up for agricultural property to become large leisure properties for capital investors who are short-term mortgages, holidays, etc. It is not this Christian People's Party that sees as a living villager or a forward-looking agricultural policy. Tests last year to verify service provides more stable constituency. Nine out of ten never seek exemption from the obligation, and among these there are over 90 pst. they may remain on the garden for more than 40 years after being moved in. If the garden user has applied for an exemption, the risk of the garden being removed after the period of exemption is much greater. This may indicate that the obligation to do so causes gardeners to think carefully about the situation before they take over and make a long-term choice. As the researcher behind the report says, they could give the scam and move after the imposed five-year period, but they don't. The Christian People's Party believes that statutory obligations are an important tool in rural and agricultural policy. Agricultural heritage is the backbone of many communities and is the starting point for local value creation and growth. Farm property that is propitious should be priced precisely on the basis of its propitiousness and should be in active operation. There is no doubt that the obligation actually works as a counter-price. Had that not been the case, it would not have had our political noise around it either. At the same time, it is unfortunate that practices vary greatly from municipality to municipality. If the obligation arrangement is to have a future – and it should – it must be practiced fairly equally, and it must be practiced with whiteness and discretion. Here, the Minister of Agriculture has a challenge, so that obligations can contribute to the achievement of what was intended, simply to sustain the bustle and create life, well-being and activity throughout the country. Another important measure to ensure housing in rural gardens is to pursue an agricultural policy that provides farmers with good and predictable framework conditions when it comes to prices and budgetary means. In these questions, the Christian People's Party is the main supporter of agriculture and district Norway. The Progress Party represents a policy that will upset Norwegian agriculture as we know it today, and that will really get ahead in the darkening of windows on gardening around the country. Nor is it possible to conclude that the agricultural policy of the Right and, in part, of the Left involves quite major changes that will result in difficult framework conditions for farmers and increase the risk of deportation. The Government Party, on its side, has had the support of the Christian People's Party in what has been largely a continuation of the agricultural policy pursued under the Bondevik II regime. At the same time, the government now has a job to do to meet the expectations created by the red-green parties in the 2005 election campaign. Removal of burden of burden or other measures that could make agricultural activity and construction more uncertain is now needed by the last Norwegian community. The Christian People's Party will do its part to ensure that agriculture is given as good and predictable a framework as possible, and that agricultural policy is as much as possible in line with the signals we receive from agricultural organisations and from people in rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e295	The interpellant raises a wide range of important issues related to this interpellance. I would like to say that it is difficult to look at price regulation in agriculture in isolation. It is related to other legislation: a collective concession law, a collective law on the land, and the law on the land. These laws together regulate the ownership of agriculture. It is from the Council of State now announced a review during the spring. It's a review that I look forward to, and that I think is important. The special feature of ownership in Norway when compared with other countries is that it is in many ways democratised. Through tradition and through history, ownership has become a right for the many in Norway, not for the few. It is a powerful force for Norwegian society, and it characterizes it today. We haven't been bothered with feudal societies, with nobility. We’re not going further than to Sweden, Denmark and Finland until we find societies that have been completely different, because ownership has been more unequally distributed than in Norway. It also imposes obligations on ownership in Norway. I think that's absolutely central, that's absolutely right, and that's how it must continue to be, precisely because this is so strong in Norwegian history and in Norwegian society. One thing is to discuss individual elements of this law with the Progress Party and the Right – I think that is interesting – but when they propose to remove the obligation to live, remove the ban on sharing in the law without going back, many will also remove the law of nobility, I believe that we are making arrangements for what we have avoided in the past, namely that there are a few with capital that can encroach on the large agricultural and forestry properties in Norway. We should avoid that. If you ignore it, all the laws are changing and should be changing. Society is changing. It is not certain that the challenges we will face in the future require the answers we have been accustomed to from the past. My experience of price control in agriculture comes from my background as a member of the City Council and the chairmanship of Trondheim – it is the municipalities that practice this law. Then I got into the individual appeals, where the chairmanship of Trondheim was anchored. It gave us a good insight into how the system worked. We got a good insight into how this system intervenes in the everyday life of the individual and the individual users, and we got a good opportunity to assess whether this is appropriate. I have explained my conclusion and my views on this issue, in a chronicle that Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has been eagerly quoting in the introduction to this interpellation debate. I think there are good reasons to see whether the price regulation of agricultural property is a targeted and effective tool to achieve the objectives we set ourselves. I think it is important to keep price regulation as the intervention it is after all, against the influence it has on individual property rights. I think it is important to look at the relationship between price fixing and agricultural property linked to pricing of other property. These are people who need to re-establish themselves in an ordinary market. I believe there is a great need to look at the randomness that I believe is in the system today, linked to the fact that the municipalities manage this very differently around the country. It has been announced by the Council of State that he wants to look at it. I think it points forward when the Council of State today says that he wants to look at the valuation of housing. I think it points forward when he mentions the interest rate on capitalization. I think it is not least that it points forward when he underlines so strongly the need for uniform administration, precisely because there should be equality of law, and there should be legal certainty for everyone in this country within the same law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e310	There is an important debate that is being raised here today. All debates on the law and legislation on nutrition in general and on agriculture in particular are crucial for what happens next. The future of agriculture and agriculture in Norway depends on a modern regulatory framework. We have a desire for decentralised agriculture, a varied structure of use – both in terms of preparedness, security of food and global solidarity. It must always be that even if a country is a high-cost country, you have to do what you can to produce your own food for the population. It also has to do with global solidarity. But as the representative, Mr. Borten Moe, said, things are changing. This applies both globally and nationally, and to the individual industries. That is why we must constantly be offensive in terms of renewal and modernisation. Here the individual trader has a responsibility, but also we politicians have a responsibility to adapt the framework to a new era. It is now felt in the agricultural industry that politicians are slowing down instead of facilitating. This applies in particular to the law. The previous government made a number of decorations of the housing and price regulation legislation. Property under 100 measures was made concession-free provided that no more than 20 targets were cultivated. A free amount of DKK 750000 was introduced before price controls were applied to the built-up agricultural property, and the capitalisation rate base was reduced to 4 pst., which was also covered by the Council of State. Overall, this has given the individual farmer greater freedom of action, but we have not yet seen the full effect of it. It needs to focus on housing and creativity, so that those who really want something in the industry have the opportunity to get away with it. We must not have a policy that reverses it either. For the left, housing is more important than housing. There are several people who have been under the ban on sharing. Proposals have been made during this period to abolish the prohibition of division. It was voted down by the government parties. It can be seen that the prohibition of sharing is based on an opinion that it is not the owner, but the society that is closest to making the best decisions about what is the proper use of the individual property. The Left also believes that further changes in the law on soil must facilitate the development of larger properties as a basis for more efficient agricultural and service production. It is simply the high-cost country of Norway that requires us to have such a development. Therefore, it is very sad to record that the Minister of Agriculture has gone into and tried out the SLF in individual cases where there are offensive farmers who will bet in the future, but those decisions are being reversed. I think that is a bad signal for those who want to bet on agriculture. Several people have also been covered by the law of nobility. That's about 80 pst. of the agricultural properties today that are odels soil, i.e. that, through birth, the population of Norway is becoming more and more narrow and has the opportunity to enter agriculture. My claim is that there are many creative people who don't have good qualities through the genealogy, but who would have invested in agriculture and added many new things to agriculture. We need an offensive agriculture that has no tradition of counteracting all changes. As I said, in the case of price adjustments, the left has sat in the driver’s seat and made more decorations. We will continue to share in discussing further embellishments, but per. Today we are not prepared to remove the entire price control system. I'm not so sure that it's the power of capital that gets the best practitioners of agriculture. Therefore, it is also important that those unable to compete with money have an opportunity to enter agriculture through a certain form of price regulation. The conclusion is that the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture must continue. Unfortunately, the opposite happens. And in terms of price regulation, we have to keep working to limit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e333	I am pleased that the interpellant focuses on what is at the heart of price regulation — and in particular on much of the other agricultural regulations — as it is a strong interference with the individual’s right to manage their own and a strong interference with the ownership of agriculture. I also get a lot of enquiries. Nor does it take much to see many headlines in the press that show how strongly this affects individuals. What scares me about today's debate is that you can stand here and talk about a policy that has been going on for 40 years now, without pointing out any results in relation to what was the goal of the results. There's always talk of active owners and full-time residents, and we see that there's more and more displaced use. In this way I must also make a comment to the representative of the Christian People's Party, Sørfonn, who referred to an investigation that shows that this works. As far as I remember from the survey – if that’s what we’re talking about – it was a survey that was conducted among those who have chosen agriculture as their profession. Of course, they also live on the farm, but the survey says nothing about all those who opt out of agriculture. And they're the ones we're really talking about here -- when the uses are actually empty and obsolete. The law we have practiced has no effect. The number of uses drops. This weakens industry's equity, weakens industry's risk will, and creates a defensive industry. Then you talk about not opening it up to the capitalists and the big ones. I think it's just horror propaganda. There is nothing to suggest that large capital would find it so very interesting to buy up in Norwegian agriculture. It would create opportunities for those who want to bet, and I think it's okay to underline it. I really hoped when I saw the chronicle of Borten Moe standing in the nation on October 2, 2008, where he said: ‘I could focus on the red tape held in mind by taxpayers’ money in order to manage this, but I am basically satisfied to note that at my discretion this is harmful to industry and a serious interference with the property rights of individuals.’ Then I really got hope, because the Center Party here would take a settlement with itself. That settlement fell quickly. I understand that the Borten Moe still stands for it – I think it was an affordable attempt to get realism into its own party – but when it was announced that it might not have had the effect it should have had. In the right, we're disappointed in it. Agriculture is, in fact, an important industry, especially in district Norway. Not least, the food industry is very important. There are many jobs built on agriculture as a foundation, and this is an industry that now needs development space, so that the day more open borders come, among other things, it does not come as a big surprise on the whole food chain and thus tear down many jobs. I wonder where the Center Party is with regard to ownership. The fact that the Workers' Party and SV do not care so much about it is not a surprise, but that the Center Party so easily depreciates ownership, I think it is strange. It's a fact that a life's work for many has to be sold at prices that don't even give you the opportunity to move to an apartment. I think that's pretty unworthy, and it's a big intervention against the individual. What actually happens is you're sitting on the fence; you're not selling. And you refuse to go into a process. Thus, death soon becomes the largest owner group in Norwegian agriculture. It also had a notice from the nations that 6,000 to 7 000 forest properties are now owned by the Mortgage. Then you can start asking, where is the active owner, and where is the promoter of value creation around in District Norway? This is disastrous, and we need to get a different focus on how to get room for the farmer to have more of his own. Therefore, a few days ago, the Right presented a Document No. Eight proposals. I see from the record that it comes to the nutrition committee, so that gives many people a good opportunity to think new.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e361	It is difficult to understand in the analysis that the Norwegian ownership of the land is as weak as the interpellant describes. As a gardener since 1969 and many years as a treasurer and treasurer, this is not my impression. But national and international conditions for agriculture change. According to the Christian People's Party's view, the main objectives of agricultural policy in any country must be to ensure that agriculture is able to produce most of the food needed by its inhabitants – and to facilitate young people to find it interesting and meaningful to invest time and capital in producing food and having the garden as a job. Long-termity must be central to the movement of agricultural property. If a young family is to be economically able to obtain a garden on the open market, with the investments that both the quality of the product and the general requirements for environmental defence operations require, it is essential that the agricultural departments of the county have a strong regulatory framework to enable them to monitor the price level of agricultural units. It was with interest that I heard what the Minister of Agriculture said in that context. As we understand, the county has a very important task around the county in this area. The requirement for a quality product is becoming stronger with us in Norway. Many Norwegian farmers are easily annoyed by these demands. Personally, I must recognise that I have sometimes done so. But the expectations that Norwegian-produced foods are free from unwanted additions require that we have a fresh soil and healthy animals. The news from the Food Authority yesterday that 28 out of 49 samples showed too high poison levels in vegetables from Thailand, would remind us once again how important it is to have control of the food our citizens have available to buy. The hard-pressed agricultural population we now have needs clear signals from everyone who wants to control this country, that young people should have such conditions to drive food production under, that it is once again considered ideologically and socially important to take challenge and otherwise acquire knowledge about producing food in Norwegian soil and in Norwegian poultry. It is this area of agricultural policy that should be concerned, not that some speculator will sit back with a little less profit than he had intended. The financial crisis should have taught us something in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e372	Listening to this debate, it would be thought that it is part of the speakers who have not brought about the enormous development that has taken place in Norwegian agriculture – from a situation where almost everyone was a farmer, to a situation where almost no one is a farmer, and where there is going to be significantly fewer. What is the big challenge of Norwegian agriculture today is, as some say, the lack of capital and the loss of agriculture today of the very best. Of course, there are those who have resources, resources to take up education and who want to invest in industries where the yield is higher than in agriculture, who are opting for agriculture today. It is a problem for agriculture. The fact that agricultural property conditions are as closed as they are today means that other capital is not invested in agriculture but is invested elsewhere. The fear of capital is obviously high in agriculture. It is believed that just a little bit of a solution to the property situation in agriculture will, as they are called, travel around and buy up all agricultural properties. It is with respect to report hesitation, because it assumes that everyone who owns agricultural property will sell their agricultural property. You would think that those who have money and capital will find agriculture interesting, and will invest everything they own and have of capital in it. That's not right. I also think it is good that the representative Ola Borten Moe is as clear as he is, and that he – as one of the young and forward-looking in the Center Party – has a different view of this than the older and conservative in the Center Party. I think that is positive, and I think it will lead to a different attitude in the Central Party in the future. I understand that there are many ideological barriers standing and closing here. Now the Council of State is going to have its last part in the debate, and I hope he can answer the questions that I have really asked in this interview, because he has not done so far. The centre party looks at farmers as a weak group, a group that should have well-meaning politicians to regulate everything separately. We see how development has been, and it has not been at the best of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e383	For those who wondered why the president did not claim the word ‘doubt’, the reason was that it was a statement called ‘doubt’. If the interpellant had attributed it to a co-representative or a state council, it would have been charged.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e386	This is an important debate and a debate to be continued on other issues. It is an important debate because we administer a law that is important for Norwegian communities and for Norwegian communities. It's a complicated piece of legislation, and we have the ambition to simplify it through the work that we're going to present later in the spring. We are committed to simplifying and modernising the law, so that it can be better to practice for the municipalities and the actors who depend on it. We will also, as I mentioned earlier, look at the regulatory system, so that we can find schemes that address different needs in different parts of the country, especially in terms of price regulation. We have to look at the different elements there. I am sure that through such a review, we will be able to find good solutions to meet new challenges and changes in agriculture, for which we are committed to facilitating. It is also right, as the representative Borten Moe says, that we cannot discuss changes or the removal of parts of this law without looking at the consequences for other laws and regulations. I'm concerned that we're going to see those contexts, because that's what will secure agriculture in the future. The industry is different in different parts of the country. It is also the case that municipalities have different practices. It is quite clear that the discussion about price regulation, housing, sharing bans, etc. Probably would be different if you were in a local government or chairmanship in Trondheim, or in a local government or chairmanship in Rindal or Vikna, where I came from. We have to take that into account, and it is complicated to find a code that takes account of those differences. But I'm concerned that there should be the most possible equality, predictability and long-termity in it. And then I'm busy stressing that we can't see laws and regulations in society isolated from the economy in the industry. This government has improved the economy in the industry in the last three years, we have delivered what we have said to deliver, and we have an ambition to continue the development, so that we can also ensure that it makes sense to drive agriculture in the future. We have seen – in response to Right-wing Representatives, Gundersen and Hansen – that the withdrawal from agriculture has been reduced because we have managed to increase incomes. I just want to stress that with the policies of the Right Party and the Advance Party, the take-off would be much greater and the centralisation of the industry much greater. That should also be mentioned when we are now discussing it. Finally, the question is, Whom should we give priority to when discussing the law? The government and the Central Party prioritise those who will enter and live in the industry in the future. Some of the other batches in this magnification are prioritizing those that are going to go out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e401	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e417	I guess no one in this room disagrees with the fact that we need more visible police. The debates in this room often focus on how much we give to the police, and perhaps on how much we don't allow. At the same time, it is a major challenge that we use the police resources we have properly. That's essentially where this interpellation is meant to take up. We have a common responsibility for the security of society. Although the police are a state task, much of the local government is also involved, both directly and indirectly, in influencing how the police use their resources. In fact, over the well three years that this period has now been, we have seen never so little progress in this country's search policy. Over many years, there has been a clear liberalisation, but over the last few years, we have seen that several municipalities have taken on board the advice that the police actually give in to the tipping policy, and have contributed to changes in their policies by local government and taking into account the advice that the police have given to reduce opening and turning times. In Trondheim and Arendal restrictions have been adopted, and the police in Trondheim believe to see a positive development – I quote police officer Moan: ‘It is true that there is generally less intoxication and that the centre is drained faster and earlier than before. This, in turn, leads to less unrest and violence.’ In Arendal, police station chief Jan Sverre Krogstad believes that the result of a cut in time has been a decline in the number of orders and violence of the entire 33,3 p.m. in one year. Those are strong numbers. We know that in many local governments there are debates about exactly this issue, and it is also, of course, a matter of state law that provides a framework, and the discretion of municipalities should be exercised. What's a little motivating is when big and important municipalities don't want to look at the advice the police give. As mentioned in the Interpellation text, there is an alcohol policy action plan on the table in this city. It's been on ice for a long time, and I think it's caused, among other things. that the plan has only one starting point, which emerges from a Oslo Police Hearing Opinion: Oslo Police District cannot see any reason other than for entrepreneurs to increase their earnings and have fewer restrictions. These are strong words from the police in a hearing opinion to the Municipality of Oslo. But it did not matter to the Municipality of Oslo, at least not to the City Council. Now the matter lies with the city council. As the hearing also points out: for the Oslo police district, it is surprising and also encouraging that the municipality does not take the police arguments seriously. Then it is clear that anyone can ask: what is it that local politicians take the police's recording seriously? And when you look at those degrees ignoring the police's advice, is it almost like calling for state aid to actually hear what the authorities say? Unfortunately, there has been no great impression in the Oslo City Council so far – on the contrary. One of the leading politicians from the Oslo Progress Party will also have 24-hour outdoors and have not yet wanted to take over the positive experience from other municipalities, where police have actually been heard and have tightened up the time of giving. That's why I still hope that it can make sense if we get a better picture of the positive results that can result from a more sober-minded search policy, if we get a systematization of this and help local politicians to understand that there can actually be less violence and crime. We need to get a systematization of the results. Of course, it also contains an indirect clear recommendation. In Oslo, we have over 1,000 points of discovery. I think, as Mr Oslo's Vice-President has said, that many people are tired of the individual's freedom at the expense of the security of others. A poll conducted for the newspaper Evening here in the city also shows that about half of the city's population now actually wants a tightening of the rules. One point is the transfer of experience, that within municipal autonomy, results can be seen equally fully if changes are made. The other thing, of course, which I'm dealing with in the last part of the interpellation, is that from a central point of view, law changes are assessed. Today's law is a framework law, i.e. the time of donation has an outer frame, until 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. But the main provision of the alcohol law is until noon. 01.0 a.m. In this city and in some other places it is the exception that has become the general rule. That's the one. The second is how the law can say something more strongly about the penalties imposed by the offenders. It's not to avoid getting a sense that some places speculate that a brief withdrawal of a couple of, three weeks is worth taking along, if you can bring in large sums otherwise. The third, on which I would also like to challenge the Minister of Justice, is how the law should make it more visible that the advice given by the police in these kinds of cases gets the attention they deserve. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that when the police make a recommendation on their professional basis, it will be very much to be overlooked by the municipality, for example. concerns the orderly situation and recommendations aimed simply at combating violence and crime. I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's views on that. But it is positive that the debate we have had in the last few years has contributed to change. The Christian People's Party is not going to wipe out the center of the cities or take away from the municipal politicians the responsibility they actually have. But we have a common responsibility for everyone's safe travel at the center of the city. Everyone has the right to feel safe as we travel in the public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e453	In my opinion, this is one of the most important interpellations I have answered in Stortinget so far. Now we've been discussing a lot of police resources and the question of how the police often get too late, because that's what they're doing. It's often too late because the damage has happened. We have far too little focus on how to mitigate crime in both large and smaller cities. In this way, I have to say that I very much share the actual description of the situation by the representative Syversen, but also the political description of the challenges we face. One of the most important things we can do in criminal policy is actually to prevent criminal acts. The relationship we see between alcohol use and violence is one of the most well-documented links we have in the field of crime. But sometimes I feel that these relationships are least respected politically. We see that both an increase and a fall in violent crime are closely related to alcohol consumption. The Social and Health Directorate and others have demonstrated that alcohol is involved in 60–70 pst. of all cases of violence. Already in 2007, police officers in the districts that house our four largest cities sent letters to their local politicians – partially incited by me – in which they called for the giving times to be regulated from 1 p.m. 03 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. They were tired of a valuable investigation period being seized by the fact that they had to be ‘locked in the streets’. In other words, the bulwark means both less violence and more available resources in the police — precious resources both in a chronic and human sense. The police officers pointed out that the liberalisation of the gist policy, which had led to several places in recent years, had led to both overdrinking and overdrinking at a time of day when social control was much less than in the daytime, which is a means of seizing the resources of the police. I have, of course, agreed to this view. As early as January of this year, the Police Directorate addressed the police districts covering the largest cities and asked for information on the crime of violence that could be linked to giving and outings. All police districts point out that there is an accumulation of reports of violence on weekends — especially night to Sunday — and that very many of the cases of violence occur in public places, often in connection with restaurants and nightlife centres. A large proportion of victims as well as perpetrators are affected by drugs. This information is confirmed by any previous experience from police districts. Against this background, police districts have strongly argued for the tightening up of the turnout times, and have shown that they see a clear link, as mentioned above. Several police districts also report that they have taken action, or have increased staffing, to prevent violence and alcohol in the centre of the weekends. Alcohol law is a tool — which was also on the inside — to prevent alcohol problems, not a tool for industrial policy. Local authorities have to look at their responsibility for sales and gift policy and the control of outlets in the context of other prevention measures and in the context of the follow-up of those who have problems with alcohol use — and there are many. It is necessary for municipalities to see the use of drugs under the alcohol law, in conjunction with other instruments in preventing drug problems, among others. violence. Many measures are already in place and a large part of the solution will be to streamline the use of these measures. This is actually one of the most important things we can do locally to create more security. Some municipalities now realize that they have gone too far in keeping themselves open for alcohol consumption. The representative Syversen gave several good examples. The umbrella organisation Actis has conducted a study in the 50 largest municipalities, which shows that several municipalities are now tightening up. In 21 of the 50 largest municipalities you have chosen to reduce the turnip times, and that's very good. Only one of the municipalities surveyed went into it for longer periods of time. In the majority of municipalities, alcoholic beverages are served either at 1 p.m. 02 or earlier in the evening. So also mentioned the Syversen an example from Arendal – which I join; it's illustrative. The opening time is reduced by one hour in the winter, and it appears to have had a positive impact on violence and disorder. As was also said, police station chief Jan Sverre Krogstad has looked at the figures, and they show that there is a significant decrease in the number of order and violence cases after the skinketida was cut in the harvest. It's hard to be bastant here, but these are pretty clear results that there's reason to rejoice over. In Kristiansand, the municipality decided to introduce at 5 p.m. 02 as the maximum time of donation. This has been implemented from 1 August 2008. The police have seen that the result of this change is that the city center is being emptied earlier, but there has not been any definite and clear change in the number of violence cases yet. The number varies from month to month. In Kristiansund, the same has been done, and positive reports have been received. The police report a significant improvement in disorder and violence in the city. At the same time, the police and politicians in Kristiansund have taken initiatives, among other things. a closure of food serving sites, preferably ‘solid food’, late at night, for example: to prevent accumulation after the end of the anchorages. This has also had a positive and beneficial effect of quite a large percentage. These include: experience that has made it possible for several municipalities now to notice – fortunately. In response to the inter-pellant’s one question, I would say that during 2009, the Directorate of Police will prepare a report to identify the effects and consequences of such intensification. I would also like to assess whether we should put in place specific research actions related to these experiences. In answer to the second question, I would like to say that we will now challenge the local police councils to use this information, collect it. Police councils are now established with great success almost all over the country. It has more than 200 police councils – a forum for politicians and police. We're now considering sending out material to these police councils, so they're going to bring this up in a greater width than what's actually done in the past. It will be a very important measure to keep this under pressure. There is also reason to note that violence and disorder associated with alcohol use, gift times and violent crime are not a strange phenomenon. The SIRUS Research Institute has, among other things: has had a review of international research literature and has pointed out that it shows that changes in timing are followed by changes in the scope of violence: as times of gift increase, we get more violence – and vice versa. That is clearly demonstrated. We have several specific studies showing such a relationship, including: from Iceland, where, in 1999, the hamlet time was removed and opened for donation almost 24 hours a day. It's liberalized in many fields in Iceland, and you've got very unfortunate results. Among other things, it has been reported that the change, and the evaluation of that change, showed that police outreach and other tasks increased significantly more in the Reykjavik Centre — with most of the tips located there — than in the whole of Reykjavik. At the hospital emergency room, the number of injuries to evenings and nights increased significantly during the weekends after liberalisation. Violence-related injuries increased by 34 pst. There are expensive measures to ensure that an industry grows. In the United Kingdom, the same has now been observed after the liberalisation of the hamlet age. And I would also like to show that in Sweden, the criminologist Leif Lenke has written an entire doctoral thesis on this – by a review of 2,000 Swedish acts of violence. He found out that gifted alcohol has a six to ten-fold effect on violence than shop purchase. The risk of violence occurs more often when you drink together in public places than in private, together with people you know well. It has something to do with social control. According to Linke, the best way we can fight against violence is to limit the outings at night. Crime, strife and disorder shall not, in the opinion of the Government, restrict the freedom and the rightful expression of life of people, either in the cities or in the country. In other words, this is about freedom and security for most of us. When you've got time to give it to me, I'll tell you what. 03, most of the places have already closed the food serving. Some politicians are concerned that this is a freedom for which it is important to protect. Freedom has for too long been linked to the ability of commercial forces to establish themselves and to operate undisturbed by public intervention and regulation. It is important that we intervene locally and centrally at the moment that has arisen in Norway in this type of debate now, and especially when it looks like a majority of the population actually supports this. There is also a background for us from the Government to consider measures in a number of areas, both in terms of the type of intervention, and not least in terms of the speed and severity of the response to violations of the regulations. Then, in the future, we might get a society that is not just too late in time, but that is much bigger than now, coming in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e499	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and there is not much I can say that I disagree with. On the contrary, I think the approximation is very consistent with what is the starting point of the interpellation. I notice that the Directorate of Police will produce an experience report that will benefit the municipalities and others working on this problem. I think that's important to get facts on the table. If that's what's often marked by vision, it's the kind of debate we're facing here. The facts you have are often not taken very seriously, to be careful. What I think you can do with is look at research related to this area. Now, personally, I would like to say that research in the field of justice is generally underestimated in relation to many other sectors. The fact that law norms and effects are absolutely something that should be a major issue in many contexts. Of course, we from the Christian People's Party welcome the opportunity to discuss the alcohol law. I understand that this matter is being raised during this six-month period, so that it can be dealt with by this accumulation, and that there will be an assessment of both the framework provided by the Alcohol Act for the exercise of the local authority's discretion, and also the forms of reaction. I think it's a lot to get to make sure that you get a reaction register on the municipality's hand that is effective and that can help build up under the fact that we get an industry that is a positive contributor and not the opposite. It should also be said that it is – what we say – the healthy part of the industry that suffers from a constant violation of the rules and has people who do not follow the rules. It is anti-competitive for those who operate fairly and properly. I just want to challenge the State Council of Storberget and the Government a little more concretely. Is the law of the Storting coming so that it can be processed before summer? Will it also consider further strengthening the role of the police in order to strengthen the influence of the police on municipal spicy policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e512	First of all, let me say, a little in line with the debate, when, as I said in my previous post, we have discussed the resources of the police, that what has been imperative to emphasise in the situation of the police is that you have a working time – and it is deserving, right and important – which makes it difficult to get out of the crew because you have to protect the legitimate leisure time you have. That's why I think that in such a situation, in terms of prevention and in relation to thinking police force and police resources, it's incredibly important that we take preventive action that also helps to make use of the police resources involved. And when we have such an obvious opportunity to remove very expensive hours for the Norwegian police, both in dollars and also in terms of overtime and working hours, namely the hours of the weekends, I believe that there should be a great deal of pressure on it. There has been the background to the fact that a police officer has chosen to address local policies as closely as he has done. I believe that we can really create police force here. To illustrate: A police officer who spends his or her working hours between hours. 03 and 04 nights to Sunday in Rosenkrantz' street, might have used five hours in the daytime to reveal more violence in close relationships. We as politicians have to think in those paths. We will never get enough policemen, because we see that there are still challenges in the crime scene that we want to address. It's about having more thoughts in your head at once. We train more policemen than ever, but at the same time we must try to push police resources so that we can use them where there are very large numbers of darkness today. As far as research is concerned, there is now an obvious, great opportunity to go in with research funding. We'll evaluate it from the Department of Justice. We've devoted something this year to research, and there'll be more. And there's this one of the themes that's relevant, because we're now in the time of change. You see change and have the opportunity to test both before and after. I can't answer exactly what the Health Minister thinks about alcohol legislation, but it's probably quite an ambition that it should be presented in the United Kingdom before the elections, so we'll have the opportunity to discuss important alcohol policy issues. There it will be relevant from our side to look at reaction capabilities, so that we can also move some of the police force into the civilian track, by making it consistent when there is a passover.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e521	First of all, I would be allowed to thank the representative Syversen for an important interpellation. There are few areas where we see a greater crime prevention effect than in terms of access to alcohol and gift policy. And as the Council of State was in it, it's documented that there's a close link between the availability of alcohol and violence. I would like to refer to another example, namely Finland. There, prices of alcohol were greatly reduced on 1 March 2004. What you saw was that consumption increased dramatically in the first few months, especially in the case of alcohol, and so did crime. Serious damage increased by 29 pst., filling increased by 47 pst., and there was a sharp increase in the use of the filler. Finland has now increased the price of alcohol again, precisely because of the many negative consequences. In Norway we see that in 60–70 pst. of all the cases of violence, alcohol is involved and a study shows that in 60 pst. of the rape cases in Oslo, the same is true. I am very pleased with what I experience as an increasingly local focus on the consequences of alcohol use and alcohol availability, and I see that many municipalities, more and more, are working on making alcohol policy action plans in a very serious way. I think an important reason for this is the establishment of police councils. Now over 260 is in place. I want to pay tribute to the police and the many police officers who have been very visible and very clear in this area and have been involved in the debate locally. They, if any, clearly see the adverse effects of a liberal alcohol policy. Even I've been on patrols several times in the night and seen how aggression is increasing, how the trend of violence is increasing around the scene. That's why we're going to take the police's signals and tapes of the highest seriousness. The seven were themselves in the hearing opinion from the Oslo police district, which reveals a very strong cynicism, I believe, from the Municipality of Oslo, where the interests of the industry are ahead of the interests of alcohol policy. As the Minister of Justice was in the house, there are many municipalities that have restricted the hours of giving. I look forward to the report produced by POD, and I agree that it is important to challenge other municipalities to use this information when the report is completed. I would also like to comment on the positions of the Party on alcohol policy. The Progress Party proposes to cut the alcohol levy dramatically, despite the fact that I believe that the Progress Party is also aware of the consequences seen in Finland. This week, the group leader of the Progress Party in my home town, Tromsø, suggested that it should not be up to the municipality to set the time for donations, but that the patios themselves should be able to decide when to close. Commissioner Truls Fyhn has slaughtered the proposal and said that it is based on ignorance and will lead to more violence, more crime and greater need for police resources. Instead, he will go the other way and narrow down the times of gift. The Party's alcohol policy is irresponsible and will cost society dearly. But it's individuals, individuals, who will have to pay the highest price. It's all those who might get their lives ruined by being victims of the increased violence that will occur as a result of increased availability. Also in Norway, as in Finland, there is reason to believe that drunkenness will increase dramatically, with the consequences it will have for road accident statistics. These are big, heavy problem areas that we are working on today, but which will dramatically worsen as a result of the Advance Party's alcohol policy. And I think it is quite frightening that, despite the well-documented effects of increased availability of alcohol, the Progress Party will have a strong liberalisation. It will also have major implications for society, and the Progress Party's proposals for the police budget will hardly be close to what is required if we are to follow the momentum policy of the Progress Party. I'm not a puritan. I want it to be possible for people to go to town, enjoy themselves and drink alcohol. But I also want it to be safe to go to the city. I want us to prevent better so that fewer women are exposed to rape committed in the drunken area. I want fewer kids to be exposed to growing up in unsafe homes because of alcohol. I want more police force, and I want more visible police. Then we have to prevent better, and the most effective way to do it is to restrict the availability of alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e544	As usual, it's the Progress Party that gets blamed for everything that's wrong, and it took up the last speech now as well. I just have to remind the last speaker that it is not the Progress Party that sits with power, nor have we ever sat with power. But in Oslo, which has to do with these opening articles, there's a minority bureau out of the Right and Advance Party. It's supported by the Christian People's Party, so they're sitting with both hands on the wheel. However, there is an affordable and good interpellation that the representative has addressed. We all agree that we want a more visible police in the streets, and that we want a quieter center at night. It is also clear that the police can make better use of their resources than they do today, and that the Council of State can ensure that the police make better use of their resources. But I also believe – so it is said – that the Council of State is concerned about it, and that he is trying to exploit the funds that the police have today. That being said, I just have to remind you that there is a legal case going on in my home country. In the courtroom, there are 20 police officers guarding someone who's on trial. I got the number 20 from the press, so I haven't talked to them myself. There are 20 highly trained policemen sitting there day after day. Today's interpellation is again about the recurring problem, that it's the alcohol and the closing articles that are responsible for everything that happens at night in Oslo. Governments were concerned about subduing crime, and especially by nightfall in Oslo. I guess we both agree on that, but the council will move the police from Rosenkrantz's street to other places. I am more concerned that the police might be relieved of some of the tasks they have today, including: from being a housekeeper's service and a watchman's service. Today, there are 20 policemen in a courtroom in my district, and the streets are clean for the police. Maybe it would have been better to move these 20 to Rosenkrantz' street? Then it might have gotten a little bit calmer there. As for how to attack and dampen crime, I read an excellent little article in VG HELG, which was written by Gievever this weekend. It takes by itself two less criminal matters, one in New York and one in Oslo. I won't say much about that article. You can just pick it up from VG Nett and read it there. But the core of it was that in Oslo the police didn't even move out, and they didn't care afterwards either. In New York City, the police were on the spot right away, and they solved the matter right away. That's how it happens in New York, and that's unfortunately how it happens a little too often in Oslo. That also shows the percentage of clarification very clearly. Here we must constantly complain that this is due to the closing articles and the alcohol regulations for which the Progress Party and the Oslo City Council are responsible. We do not entirely agree with that. We believe that the police should move out and take the troublemakers, and strike down on what is. Finally, I just want to remind you that there's a minority agency in Oslo, and there's someone who has his hand on the wheel and can be in charge here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e559	First, I would like to thank the interpellant, the representative of the Syversen, for bringing an important theme into the main hall. Unfortunately, violence has become so violent in the streets of Norway that it is necessary for the case to be raised as high as in the main hall. Colleague Hans Olav Syversen – in line with me – represents Oslo, currently led by the Right and the Advance Party. Interpellanten takes an explicit starting point in the municipality of Oslo. This I will come back to. It is now that there is no lack of knowledge about the relationship between alcohol use and violence. Alcohol — similar to other drugs — plays a major role in the practice of violence, both in public and in the home. SIRUS, in its review of international research literature, pointed out that it shows that changes in timing are followed by changes in the scope of violence: as time passes increase, we get more violence – and vice versa. I would argue that the knowledge of how availability and consumption and consumption and the practice of violence are related is not a defect. There's enough information about the subject. There are plenty of warnings about this. Take Oslo as an example: it is not the case that the City Council of the Advancement Party lacks knowledge or warnings about this. The hearing boards last summer were more sunny. They warned against broadening the scope. The Oslo Police said in their hearing opinion: ‘Things indicate that the Nordics and the high availability of alcohol are a poor combination. In relation to times of gift, one should go back in time rather than in time in the future.’ They don't bother with that. The police are directly linked to the search for violence and the subsequent use of police resources. Oslo's chief of police said the following to the evening in connection with this matter: ‘We have said many times that we are using a disproportionate proportion of the uniformed resources overnight for Saturday and Sunday. Our people save lives every weekend. Should we have even more places with the same challenges as in the center, it goes against what we want to use the resources on." In other words, the problem in Oslo, and in many other places, is not that local politicians are not familiar with the experiences of police and other professional authorities with the effects of the gist policy on the image of violence and crime. A choice of values is made in Kommune-Norway. Too many, especially on the bourgeois side, minus the Christian People's Party, believe that it is important to ensure that people have the freedom to drink alcohol, to say the least, whenever they want and wherever they want. That's what happened in Oslo. SV believes that the most important thing in this case is freedom from fear of being subjected to violence. We believe that freedom to go and enjoy your own city whenever you want, wherever you want, is the most important thing. Then there are political choices that are made in Kommune-Norge and Oslo, with open eyes, and in this important matter – I understand – Oslo SV and Oslo Arbeiderparti very well with the Christian People's Party in Oslo. When I use Oslo as an example, it's because the interpellant itself is based on Oslo, but at the same time it's a good illustration of the situation in Kommune-Norway in general. So to regulate the law of the relationship. I have always been a supporter of the fact that the Storting must be very restrained in terms of limiting the room for action of local politicians. It also applies to this policy area. I must admit, however, that the consequences of an excessively irresponsible alcohol policy are so brutal for both individuals, Health-Norway and the police that my patience has been put to the test. I hope that local politicians know their visitation time and their responsibility before the Stortinget sees the need to intervene. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has pointed out that there are resources for research in this year's budget, and that he announces that there will be more resources for research, so that we get even more knowledge and information about the consequences of alcohol use in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e589	Like others, I would like to thank the interpellant for a very good interpellation and for the opportunity to discuss this difficult and important question. As many people have been involved, it is the municipalities that are responsible for giving sales and donations and also for checking and sanctioning. Unfortunately, we have seen in recent years that the controls of municipalities have not been good enough. And why not? This may be due to the fact that this task is not high enough priority in municipalities – the checks for the rare, the routines too poor, so that crimes are not detected. In addition, Sirus, the State Institute for Drug Research, has found that very few crimes that have actually been found lead to the loss of the permit by a shop or a gift shop, even for a shorter period of time. Usually only warnings have been given. This also provides little incentive for gift shops and gift shops to comply with the provisions of the Alcohol Code. It's almost been free to break the law. In addition, there are very large differences in the penalties applied by municipalities. The police in the largest cities have made us aware of a very negative development. They warn against drunkenness, fighting and violence, and they have, as many have been in attendance, actively asked for earlier closing times for the tipping points. In fact, some municipalities have taken this so seriously that they have decided to reduce the closing hours, or the donation times of alcohol, as both the interpellant and the Council of State pointed out. However, we are left with an unbridled and variable set of rules for shops and gift shops. Like the great organisation Juvente, I agree that we should receive national guidelines for the exercise of control both in terms of frequency, the manner in which control is carried out and not least higher requirements for the training of inspectors. In addition, I agree with Juvente that there is a need for a comprehensive national system of penalties and an overview of which offences are so serious that a grant of a gift should be withdrawn for a shorter or longer period of time, respectively. This will be predictable both for business and for the audience, and, perhaps most importantly, it will make our municipalities safer for both children and adults. We know that as many as 200,000 children in Norway today suffer from the fact that they have parents who are rushing, and many of these parents may also be out at night in some places. I am very pleased that the Council of State refers to a number of measures, not least the fact that it collects a good deal of evidence – both that there will be a report on the impact of the measures taken and that he will assess more research. He also pointed out that police councils could better use this information. Governments also showed very good evidence from Norway and not least Sweden regarding the relationship between alcohol and violence. I think it's very important that this gather, and that we're all willing to look at this with open, healthy eyes. I also agree with the Minister of Justice that prevention through law and regulation is very important, and that we are using the tools we have, in this way that the police might be able to use them for other tasks that are badly needed. We know that the entire 56 pst. in Norway — according to a survey conducted last year by the MMI on the mission of Actis — the population believes that there is too much flooding in Norway — yes, even among voters from parties which have traditionally been very liberal locally in the search policy, e.g. The party of progress, six out of ten says they want to have reduced turnout times. My claim is, it would be a cut in the times of giving if people in the municipalities were to decide for themselves. Finally, as a young municipal politician in the municipality of Askøy in Hordaland, I was so lucky to have an alcohol policy plan in my pen. It's exciting and fun to read this today, but maybe a little scary too, because you world so many more challenges we have in today's Norway than we had then, for decades ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e608	I would like to make a few brief comments in a debate that is both a general alcohol policy debate and a debate on how to ensure law and order throughout the country, including in the big cities. As far as the general debate on alcohol policy is concerned, I should not make any more observational than saying that I think we are all now, no matter what the point of view, interested in taking it — for example. the recording that has come from parts of the abstinence movement, on point-by-point abstinence, where we will create zones and areas, create roles other than those represented by a large alcohol press. With regard to the very specific situation in Oslo, the City Council – since it almost ran into a municipal government debate here – has had a case that had to be followed up following a decision by the City Council. For my part, as an alternate to that city council, I would like to await that matter. I would like to add some comments to the police's work. I've been working with the Oslo police since 1993 – for 15 years. I have to say that I learned for not too long ago, for example. on the very sound control and contact they have with outdoors, with door guards and with serious traders. This creates control. This has in very many ways removed much of the violence and the fighting we had for a few years back related to the outdoors and the areas just outside them. What's a fact is that we have a fight over the outside, in the streets and elsewhere. It's a fact, but it's important to point out that it's actually done excellent police work. The police work has not been done by having many people, but it has been done by what is called a problem-oriented approach in the police language. You know where the problems are. Then a few policemen who have the knowledge will mobilize the good forces to set the limits. These boundaries are combined with doorkeepers recruited and schooled, and with owners who are schooled. This story has to be told, because it is part of an exemplary work, which does not require great effort, but is a targeted and determined effort. With regard to the debate on the police in general – the background to what is today’s theme is not the lack of police in the capital – it is simply that there are too few people. We debate this in many contexts in this Chamber. Some of the most constructive things that have emerged in these debates are everyone's commitment, most recently the Council of State's commitment to putting people into civil positions, so that one avoids the kind of futility that I think the representative Nistad was inside, where there are lots of people in a courtroom, who basically don't have to sit there at all. You could do it another way. The review of these inconsistency is very important. When I withdraw the police, it is precisely from my experience with police prevention – there is every reason to listen to the police here – that also has a good foothold in this big city, and that has been exemplified in the debate. The police have very wide contact with very many youth settings. They're role models, and they set limits. This work should be suspended – once again a kind greeting to the Council of State, because in many respects I have talked about giving foot soldiers of life, i.e. those in the police who work in the street, career paths and recognition. I now know through the various statements of the Council of State and at the latest in an answer in the Questionnaire here to me, that this is something he burns for and will engage in. These good people, who shouldn't be there instead of everything else, but as we're going to have there in a real way, it's now being taken very good steps to school. I feel that sometimes there will be a local government debate about Oslo in the staging room. Then an alternate member of the City Council of Oslo will have to stand here both as a poaching representative and as an alternate and contribute with the facts on the occasion of the case. Then we can take the right fights where they are to be taken, in the different forums when they come – and they will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e628	I have to say I am very pleased with the interpellation and the post that the representative Syversen made, and also with the comments of the Council of State. I could just add in the range of experiences from cities that are mentioned, that for example. Sandefjord has confirmed that in the last four weekends before Christmas, the police only handled one third of the number of people usually taken care of by the police at night during the weekends — after reducing the turnout hours. So there's a lot of good experiences that start drawing gradually in the cities that have gone the right way. I could also add to the Syversen's description of the image of the voters, that in the opinion poll mentioned by the representative Syversen, from Oslo – if you subtract from the non-know-how group, as you do in such measurements – it is of those who have made an opinion, approximately. 60-70 pst. who wish to reduce turnout times. It was of particular interest in this poll that among the voters of the Progress Party, the figure was even higher than the average among those who wanted to tighten up the turnip times in the Oslo Centre. So I think that also among the voters of the Advance Party there are many who want more security in urban centers. It was interesting to take part in a debate a few weeks ago with the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, who characterized the Oslo Centre, the capital. It's a matter that I think the Storting should be interested in, and not just characterize it as a city government matter, for which Doorum went in the direction of the previous post. There the party leader of the Progress Party spoke about Oslo being a war zone night to Saturday and Sunday. The way to describe it without wanting to do anything about it, worries me. The answer from the Progress Party is more police. When I was out with the police in the night, two-thirds of them had power and had 300-400 men in the center of Oslo. Yet one had more than enough to do! Seizing such large police resources, with overtime, night to Saturday and Sunday – the particularly vulnerable period is from 02.30 to 04.30 in the morning – will be very costly compared to the other police activities. When discussing the question of whether the state and the Storting should think about giving time, I believe that it is not just a municipal matter, because large government resources are being seized when dealing with the violent situations that arise when there is a lot of overlap, and when there are many who have got too much in them night by Saturday and Sunday. If the drinking period lasts too long, people get easily tired and frustrated, and there are too many violent situations. What I mean about law changes is that it would be right now, because this also concerns us as a society. It is about creating driving rules in a society, which we have in terms of traffic rules, for example. traffic speed limits and, in the case of smoke laws, etc. We have to create some norms, which we can gather about when it comes to setting limits, and I hope that you can limit your turnaround times by at least an hour, as you do in the vast majority of major cities. With regard to legislative changes, it is also important to look at the possibility of immediate reactions, so that if you expose others to danger or to difficult situations, you have the right to carry out immediate reactions. Today, the police have the option in a very limited field in the case of restaurants — in the case of safety-related situations, or in the absence of authorisation. I think you should be able to expand that basis for immediate reactions. The same applies to change of ownership. It turns out that when one discovers things in a process around the controls of the businesses, and there is a danger of withdrawal of the grant of donations, there is an incredibly rapid shift of ownership in some places. In one year I think we had 350 changes of ownership in the restaurant industry in Oslo. And there are very many! Although sometimes it probably has natural business reasons, there are other reasons. So I hope you can look at the community here and not just let the 'tow and run' policy be designed in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e647	I have a feeling that on every occasion I can't stand and say after hearing Jan Bøhler, that I agree with almost everything he said, so I use the opportunity – once it's here. I can largely join the Bohemian summary. I would also like to say that this is no urban governance debate – in no way. It is the Stortinget that determines the legal framework in this area as well, and it is in fact that what is the main rule of the law has now been eroded in many municipalities, and the exemption provision in the law has in many places become the main rule. And it's clear that then it's also a responsibility for the country's legislative assembly to see if the purpose of the alcohol law is actually being followed up, or whether, as it is in Oslo City, it's the business interests that govern this policy, and nothing else. Only to monitor the situation in Oslo: the alcohol policy action plan has now been on the city board for more than six months, including six months. because many in the urban council parties – and then far into the Right and in part into the Progress Party – strongly doubt whether they meet the challenges that this city actually faces. I must also tell the representative Nistad that the Christian People's Party is probably not with any hands on the wheel in this matter. That's what the representative Dørum and his party do. Then I am sure that Dørum will carefully consider what is the right policy, even though his voters from the same measurement as Bohemia pointed out, are probably among the most liberal. This may also cause some concern as to where the party ends in the end. But we'll have to take care of that. I am pleased with the signals that have come in relation to the revision of the law, and I can assure you that the Christian People's Party will contribute as far as we can to get a law that is adapted to the actual conditions experienced by Kommune-Norge – of course without depriving municipal politicians of the primary responsibility they have to pursue a responsible search policy. I would like to end by quoting, when it is said that there is no use of resources on this in the Oslo police force, the following from Oslo's vice-politics: ‘Big resources help to maintain the general order of the city on weekends, and it must necessarily be at the expense of other tasks. Is it true that so much resources should be set aside to control private alcohol trading activities and their consequences?’ It is that country's municipal politicians and we to which the National Assembly must respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e667	This has been a very good debate in the sense that the Government has been given an opportunity to delay the mood in relation to many measures to be taken, both in terms of purely preventive measures, but not least the legal measures that need to be taken to regulate an industry that I believe should be better regulated, especially in relation to the penalties to be imposed. In this way, we're taking with us all the signals that come from here. But I would like to point out that there has been a lot of political progress in this respect. I don't think we could have conducted such a debate five to ten years ago – and then I don't necessarily think about the position of the Progress Party, but we see that in all parties there has been a wake-up to the need now to think both preventively and more restrictively. After all, the government has a political platform where we want to maintain a restrictive alcohol policy – and we actually feel that we are getting more and more support for it. In the case of alcohol policy in Norway, instruments such as the Vinmonopolet, fees and tipping policy have for a long time been produced both as ridiculous and as low-active, and as having little legitimacy in the population. It turns out it's wrong. And it turns out that evolution is positive in the sense that, for example, The monopoly of wine has a significantly larger population now than it had a few years ago, both in terms of service and in terms of the social purposes that these instruments are intended to pursue. So I think we have a political momentum to talk about these things to a much greater extent, and it's quite obvious that here we are totally dependent on having more thoughts in our head at once. The government wants to train more policemen, and not least – and I would say to the representative Nistad – we want more civilians into the police. In this context, I would like to give clear signals at least that we are going to do what we can to increase efforts to bring in more civilians in 2009, also beyond what is in the budget. We're going to do what we can on every occasion, so that – I was saying – the Gjøvik court should be manned by the arrest guards, by the civilians, who have gone on a course to take on these kinds of tasks, so that we can free the police. I believe that this debate has helped to give this further political pressure both in terms of government work and not least in terms of what is happening locally. Because it will continue to be a major local responsibility. Think how much power the municipalities have here! This is a question of not having to meet the political challenges of finding more money, but having the power to create better situations – both for children who are waiting at home, and not least for those who participate in activities in the city and want to have it safe. Here we have power, and there is a power that we can use for the best of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e678	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e694	In recent years, the focus on schools has increased, and we have gained a better understanding of how both outcomes, learning environments and resources vary between schools in Norway. The right, with varying degrees of resistance, has worked for greater transparency and publication of the results of schools. Systematic data collection, analysis and control provide new opportunities for thorough and scientifically based studies on the variation in school performance between pupils and schools. Evaluation is important. Correctly, it provides motivation and stimulates learning. Characters are important. They give a precise feedback, and they are something the individual may disagree with or agree with. They also largely determine the choices that each student will have in the future. This has to be done right and fair. It is important that they be determined in a manner understood by the students and that the assessments carried out are subject to inspection and control. Trustworthiness is central and has to be reversed. We know from countless studies that family backgrounds have a lot to say for children's school performance. The education of parents is one of the factors that can explain most of the differences in characteristics. For example, we know that students who have parents with primary education do much better in school than those who have parents with primary school. The combination of ‘favourable’ family backgrounds, both in terms of income, wealth and education, has a very strong impact on student performance. We should all be concerned that everyone should have equal opportunities, regardless of background. To get there, we have a lot of development work ahead of us. Further development of the school requires school owners to ensure that there are procedures for assessing the quality and performance of the school. School owners must follow up on the information on learning outcomes, on the learning environment and on resources generated by the national quality assessment system. It is essential to be able to put in place relevant measures that schools and apprenticeships have knowledge of their own strengths and weaknesses. School owners need to know what measures can lead to improvement. This requires school management. Knowledge of learning processes, assessment and curriculum is a core competence of a schoolleader. We have a lot of research that shows that schools are too unclear in their assessment work. Many give positive feedback to students when there is no reason for praise, which works against their purpose. Many do not sum up learning sessions, and many rarely give corrective feedback. We have several OECD reports that show that Norwegian students are not being followed up well enough in a systematic way. In most other contexts, it is recognised that constructive and good feedback is important for motivation. Not least I think it's true in school. I noticed that something was done. The national project ‘Better assessment practices’ is a positive and appropriate measure to develop clearer guidelines for assessment, so that we can better assess the work of students. There are 77 schools participating in the project, with the aim of better being able to describe the quality of the student in relation to the object of the curriculum. Increased awareness of quality criteria will usually result in a more professional and thoughtful assessment practice. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that all assessments will always contain an element of judgement. In other words, it will always be challenging to develop a national system for individual assessment. The educational planning of the Knowledge Promise is based on skills objectives that describe what students are to master, and the skills objectives are to be the starting point for assessing the achievement of the students’ goals in the subjects. It is therefore essential to have criteria for assessing the level of achievement. The results of the in-flight report of the ‘Better Assessment Practice’ project show that many teachers are calling for professional external guidance and development of competences. Only half of the teachers report that the school cooperates with other schools. According to teachers, school-to-school cooperation leads to increased motivation and contributes to the development of student competence. The involvement of the head of school is important for the progress of the project, for the motivation of the teachers in the work and for the overall development of competence related to student assessment. The feedback in the project suggests that there is a significant need for a stronger and more systematic assessment culture around the schools. The positive thing is that it seems like the teachers are also asking for it. That's a good starting point. An important part of the learning work carried out by schools is shown in so-called school contribution indicators. School contribution indicators attempt to show differences in the contribution of each school to the learning of its students. Research shows that the family background explains about one third of the differences between pupils’ individual characteristics. By drawing out the part of the results due to the family background of the students — including parental education, income, family size, etc. – will be left with the average grade that the school would expect if the student composition at school was equal to the average in the country. This average is the school contribution indicators. Unfortunately, the current government chose to stop the national work on these indicators in 2005. Among other things, the OECD states that school contribution indicators provide a more precise and fair measurement of the school contribution to learning, and that such measurement systems are significantly better than pure character measurements as tools for school development. I note that the Ministry of Knowledge at the NRK yesterday went to ‘war’ against the media’s handling of results from national samples. It might be a more fruitful strategy to ensure that the information given to the media is presented in a correct and more informative way. It is important that the public have good knowledge of school developments. It must not be hidden. The state doesn't get better by no one getting to know. Developments in Oslo School seem to confirm this. There, in cooperation with the Statistical Central Agency, the municipality has continued its work on the use of school contribution indicators, and they believe that this is a very useful tool for the development of the Oslo school. The results and improvements achieved in Oslo School may indicate that they have many good points. I hope, on this basis, that today's government will reconsider its decision in this area and ensure that the work of the previous government will continue. Rather, the government should focus on improving the measurements carried out, rather than using forces to try to conceal what is happening, should and should be public information. The direct background that I've promoted today's interpellation is the findings that show differences between positions and exams for students at different schools. Today’s Businesses last August had a suggestion that some schools have a special ‘smart’ or ‘strict’ characterisation practice when setting positions. The 2007 School Outcomes Report from the Statistical Centre shows that schools with a higher position than exam characteristics in 2007 tend to have a higher trend in 2006. The report shows a clear tendency for pupils with parents without higher education to be more qualified than those with parents with higher education. Another report from the Statistical Central Bureau found that the less favourable the socio-economic composition of the school, the less likely it is to have a high point of view. This composition does not apply when making a similar assessment of the examination characteristics. We're not going to have many of these statements before the trust in the system weakens. Norwegian school does not need it at a time when you need to focus on strengthening the evaluation culture in school. It is very important to support the legitimacy of the school assessment system that the level and characterisation of primary and secondary school are well documented. The existence of systematic differences in the characterisation of schools is potentially very damaging to the credibility of the assessment system. We have to take seriously that performance is to be assessed equally regardless of which school you go to. The researchers in the Statistical Centre, who have carried out these studies, say that the scope of research is currently too limited to draw any bastant conclusions from the findings. They also say that little research has been done on the subject. I have to add that a small private ring I have had for the owners of secondary schools reveals that many school owners do not even collect and analyse grades at their schools. To the right, the credibility and confidence of the school’s evaluation, the grades set, shall be high. The characteristics play a central role in the school, and they are important and partly crucial for the potential of each student in the future. This will require research and further analysis in order to assess current practice. I ask the Council of State to ensure that this is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e729	The overall assessment system in the training is comprehensive, and there are five more than individual assessments. As I understand the interpellation, I still want to focus on the ratio of the individual student to the apprentice. The Soria Moria Declaration shows that students should have good, relevant and individually adapted feedback and that the system we have for assessment practices today should be reviewed. On this basis, the government has identified a set of main challenges in the assessment field: Strengthening and clarifying the legislation applicable to individual assessment enhances the assessment competence both in teacher training and in the school to improve the evaluation culture and practice of training The size did not comment on the main challenges when setting St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007 –... and no one was left – was discussed. As a follow-up to the deliberations, the Ministry of Knowledge gave a mandate to the Directorate of Education to propose and test actions related to those challenges. The overarching goal of any change is to give more and better learning to all learners, apprentices and adults. The ‘Better assessment practices’ project will also build on its own better assessment skills through systematic work. The project is planned to end by June 2009. In the light of experience, I will consider any changes that may be made. Let me then deepen myself a little bit when it comes to work, things that have been done – processes in the big projects. Firstly, the law governing the school is the training law and the regulations of the law with the curriculum. This policy will ensure students' rights and will be reviewed continuously. For existing school years, changes have been made, so that we now have a common characterisation basis for the base and the further education, where the character scale now shows the level of embroidery at all character levels. The new regulations were implemented on 1 August 2007. The representative, Gundersen, says that the aim of characters is to promote learning and thus to obtain good, customised training. A speech character alone does not promote good learning. A number does not provide information about what student must continue to be able to improve the subject. In order to learn from the assessment, the student must be familiar with what he or she can do to improve his or her competence. The purpose of in-flight assessment is to improve learning and development and to provide a basis for appropriate training. Professionally relevant feedback from teachers is an important part of the learning process, and such feedback has elephants and demands. The purpose of the final assessment is to provide information on the level at which the student has completed the training in the profession. The Education Directorate has sent proposals for regulatory changes to be consulted. The deadline for consultation is 19 March 2009. The goal is to make the regulations clearer and thus ensure the rights of students. In the draft consultation, clearer rules are proposed for both in-depth and final evaluation. In-flight assessment shall be used as a hub in the learning process and provide guidance on how the learner can improve his/her knowledge. It is also suggested that, together with the mid-year assessment, a conversation be conducted between the teacher and the student also in the primary school. In the draft regulations currently under consultation, sections 4 to 7 on in-flight assessment are proposed: «The teacher shall conduct a conversation with the participant as part of the in-flight assessment once every six months on developments in relation to the field of competence objectives.» The question of increasing assessment competence is also addressed in St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, Quality at school. There is a warning that a permanent system for the further training of teachers will be developed. Further training should be directed towards teachers as a professional, and evaluation is one of the fields of action. It's in 2009 by 170 million. SEK for the further training of teachers. A student’s assessment is one of five areas of priority within the framework of the provision of training. That's also seen in 2009 of 72 million. kr for continuing training of professionals in vocational and vocational training. The aim here is to increase the competence of the actors in training after the current curriculum and in assessment. So I'll point out that judgement will always be a factor in assessment. Assessment is not an exact science in which a fine-tuned instrument can be used to measure objectively. There will always be a subjective factor in human assessment. Nevertheless, there is a point to professionalise the subjective element as much as possible and make sure that there is as much equality as possible in the exercise of subjective judgement. The question of assessment culture and practice is important and the representative of Gundersen asks what has been done to improve the assessment criteria in the Norwegian school. A part of the ‘Better Assessment Practice’ project is precisely developing characteristics of target achievement, or criterion, as the representative Gundersen referred to it as. For approx. 70 schools in Norway are now trying to develop their target achievement characteristics. Both the kindergarten, the youth step and the further education are found among the 70 schools. In order to obtain the broadest possible basis for assessing the case, different models of target-achieving characteristics are tested. Part of the schools work, for example: with common target achievement characteristics already developed and ready for testing. Others are training the development of common signs themselves, as the school then tries. All models are followed and evaluated by researchers. The test also includes written assessment on the child's step, but then without the use of character. The follow-up report from September 2008, i.e. for approx. six months ago, created by the Institute for Teacher Education and School Development at the University of Oslo, it appears that the development of skills is largely organised in professional groups. A number of teachers at the schools who are followed in the project suggest that the use of registration marks has a positive effect on the learning of the students. Nevertheless, only one of four teachers reports that the school together has a better student assessment plan. Only 40 pst. teachers report that the work on registration marks is organised on the basis of local work on curricula. Skulas that are based on existing local plans and developed characteristics in relation to them report having come further than schools that have not chosen such a strategy. The involvement and involvement of the school owners is also an important factor in the progress of the project, both for the motivation of the teachers and for a holistic development of competence linked to student assessment. In support of the curriculum work, we are now working out guides for all key subjects. The work on evaluation will also show up clearly. It is important to link the development of skills for achieving goals to local work on curricula. This is why it is also important to include it in the work on national curricula. The first guides will be ready for the school start in autumn 2009. Gradually, we now see the results of a training change process. In the light of studies and reports, we have seen that the changes are quality and good. We're going to get to the measurements we've seen: a better school, providing more and better learning for all the elephants, apprentices and adults. If we are to reach them, it is to change the legislation, make the legislation clear, to have competence in assessment and good practice in each school very important. That is why I am very pleased that the representative addresses the important issue in an interview – there is far too little attention in the debate, and that gives me the opportunity to present a more holistic picture of the significant work that the Government has done in this field. We have made important progress, not least in extensive development and research. There has been a great lack of that, something the representative quite rightly pointed out. Now, what we're up and about to finish, will give us a completely different basis to further develop our assessment in the next round. We need that, because there are still major challenges before we have a good assessment that gives motivation and a direction of improvement for the individual student and apprentice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e778	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think there's any big disagreement here. This has been evident in major messages, and there is a growing focus on the poorness of the culture of evaluation. Then we have to do something. I also think that there was a very good review by the Council of State of the objectives of evaluation. En-route assessment is an important part of creating motivation. I fully agree that grades do not create the motivation in themselves – it must be a purpose, and it must be understood why grades are set. However, a final assessment is a rather important assessment of where the student is at the end of time, and it is also used for quite a lot outside school. What I missed a little bit in the Council of State statement is how we can actually use a lot of the information that's there to improve the system, i.e. by back-testing. That's what the SSB pointed out in the headline that was in today's business, and at least I haven't seen or registered this has been mentioned in any of the staging messages or discussions we've had on the topic before. When they suggest that there are ‘smart’ and ‘strong’ schools, we have a challenge. I think we should just agree that it is potentially a very big challenge, because it actually affects the individual student's opportunities also in the future – that's why I thought it was a quite alarming headline when it was in the daily business life. Here it is really just to raise awareness of local school ownership and also to raise awareness of the interaction between the national level and local school ownership in how to use the information you already have in school, both to ensure quality and to check what is done in school today. I am pleased that the Council of State announces that more research will actually be done on this, because then I am sure that this issue will also arise both in the department and further. So I look forward to the debate further around the interpellation, and I think it's a very important topic, because it just affects each student's potential in the future. The community as such should have confidence in the assessments made at school, and we depend on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e789	First, I want to say that I am very pleased that there is now a much broader consensus on the centrality of the assessment of the individual student's assessment. I see it as very positive that there is a broad political consensus about it. It has an extremely central place in two ways. One is the motivation factor, but the other is what I want to call the content factor -- what area is it that you need to improve on, and what area is it good at? That's what can really speed up an assessment system where individuals can see a direction that needs to be better. And I'm also in complete agreement with the challenges the representative is now addressing in his last article. Obviously, it's also crucial that we have an eye on how the characterization is in some schools. Therefore, it was I who paid so much attention to the work on in-depth assessment and final assessment in my post. I think the work we're doing now in terms of target achievement is extremely important in that context, because I believe both the representative and I can easily be certain that if there are trends to'smart' and'smart' schools in the characterization, or tough and less tough schools, at least we're not a very good way out of it that we're going to decide that now all should be medium-sized, and then we're going to bet that it's going to be that way. On the contrary, it is very likely that to the extent that such trends exist, it has, among other things, to make it difficult to have a consistent and clear image of what things actually represent a level of achievement. It's a fairly complex, important and big job that you have to do with it, not least when you have a new curriculum, which is to gradually sit down. That's why it's been so important to start an extensive development work with different inputs to it, and I think it's a work that will have a significant impact also on making the final evaluation both easier for those who are going to work on it, and not least more fairly and correctly around it. So I think I'm just going to round off saying that in the work we've been doing, we're going to put a lot of emphasis on making a much better in-flight assessment, getting it in and giving it the space in the school that's absolutely necessary. It is absolutely central to both content and motivation, but also to improve the final assessment, which I fully agree with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e798	Since the introduction of the Knowledge Promise, there have been different topics that have been in focus. Now it's student assessment that's being discussed, and that's good. We need a review of how students in our school are assessed, and we need a set of criteria to assess, so that students are assessed as closely as possible in relation to whether they meet their qualifications, regardless of which school they attend. As the Minister of Knowledge said in his statement, student assessments will always have an element of subjective assessment in themselves. However, as far as possible, we need to ensure that it is assessed equally so that we do not get schools that are particularly ‘smart’ or ‘stress’, as the interpellant puts it. That is why, as we have heard, there are also a number of experiments with different types of student assessments around Norwegian schools to find good student assessment methods. The representative, Gundersen, in his interpellation, says that the aim of grades is to promote learning, and that grades are central to providing adapted training. Like the Council of State, I'm asking some questions about that vision. A character in itself then makes no sense and is not conducive to learning for the student who gets poor grades. The training law and its regulations then clearly state that the student has a right to feedback as to why the character was the same as it was. In my view, the character must also be followed up with concrete guidance from the teacher on how the student can best improve in the subject where the character is given. It's no use telling a student that you need to get better — the student needs to know how. Bad grades in a subject are totally killing learning, especially if you don't realize how to move on. The interpellant says that the students have to get specific feedback, and I fully agree with that. But to me, it means more than grades in the profession. One thing Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen did not mention, and I should have liked to have heard his view, is that the Right would like to have a test scheme with grades from the fifth grade in high school at the schools where the parents want it – this is for the students to know where they stand professionally before they go to high school. I don't think this is a particularly good idea, because there are many other methods for good feedback on professional and social skills than grades, methods that I think are much better suited in the first seven years of school. A type of student rating that I like is folder rating. It is a concrete and good way to give students and parents feedback about where the student is standing and how he or she can improve. It requires regular feedback, not just every six months. It satisfies the requirement of writing, on which the regulation is not quite clear, as I perceive it, but as many demand. The trials that are now taking place will probably provide us with many good examples of systematic and good student assessment that promote learning among all students, both those who are good at the subject and those who have to work more to achieve their goals. Being seen is important. It's important for us adults, and it's absolutely vital for how children evolve. Not getting feedback on your efforts is devastating for the individual, and it does not create a good working environment, either for children or for adults. The student assessments are about that. But it's also about helping children learn. It's the teacher who's central to the parents. Creating a climate and an environment where you can provide feedback that helps students and parents to move on with learning is important. This requires competence, and it is therefore good that student assessment is one of the areas of systematic training of teachers that is now under way, as well as a central theme of the new teacher training. If there's a too weak assessment culture in today's school, I don't want to say that I'm sure, but that there's a lot of variation between schools, we know. For this reason, it is important to have national targets and criteria on which students are assessed, both in order to have a fair character system for the current grades, and not least in view of the feedback and guidance that needs to be added. The students need to know what they can do better, and how they can improve. That's why I think it's going to be wrong to introduce numerical characters in the first seven years. I hope that it will not be relevant when the threads are to be drawn together in the trials we have around in the various schools, but that we get a system that everyone can trust will promote learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e811	We are discussing student assessment today. Too many at my age there might be a little bit of an unknown term. But is there anything new? No, of course not, it's just another concept of what's happened in Norwegian school all the time. At all times, teachers have assessed the work of the students, whether they have been using red pencil or in response to learning processes that have gone on for some time. Silver stars and gold stars, smiley faces and sour faces have been used. In my time at school, we got very good, very good, good, pretty good and a little good. If it wasn't considered sufficient, the teacher would like to add a plus or a minus, behind the grade. After a while, we felt that there was a discussion about these characters – they were not good for us students, and the big educational revolution was that the letter characters were replaced by numerical characters, first from 1 to 6, when 1 was the best and 6 was the worst. Then someone found out that it was not a pedagogical way to give feedback — in Norway, we should not produce one another, except on the sports track. It is, of course, read and adopted as the only politically correct one. That's why you flipped the number line. Suddenly, 6 was the best and 1 was the worst, which led to full confusion for my year's coal and my peers when admitted to higher education. The numbers have also been supplemented by both one and two decimal places of teachers who have sincerely intended to give the student feedback on schoolwork. In fact, this type of characterisation provided both pupils and supervisors with the opportunity to keep up with the development of schoolwork. It was possible to see where one did well, and where one did less well. In the school policy debate, we often get the impression that the great difference between socialists and bourgeois parties is a kind of for or against character. Let me say from the Progress Party that when we're talking about using grades in school, it's essentially a tool to give the student a qualitative assessment and feedback at the student's professional level. It's kind of uninteresting if someone tries to call the same kind of assessment for something else. The most important thing in school is that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, each student, i.e. the individual, is given the opportunity to develop and exploit his or her professional potential. I believe that the political focus and rhetoric that socialists have used, that grades create losers, have contributed to the Norwegian school's return to schools in other countries. Norway is one of the very few countries that do not start with grades until high school. If we could all agree that the student needs a qualitative assessment of his work, we would have gone a long way. It's fine if we could also agree that getting a bad grade or some other kind of feedback that the student has a low target achievement is not negative in itself. It reveals an improvement potential, and the teacher should be the guide to exploit this potential. The increase in knowledge led to a shift in trends in Norwegian school. In the curriculum developed, the content was no longer described in themes, as before, but as objectives of competence. ‘Competence is characterised by having the will and ability to use knowledge, to apply it in a given situation as a basis for action,’ says Professor Dale. So competence is a broader concept than knowledge. The problem for teachers is that skills objectives are set for two and three years at a time, making assessment work difficult. It is important to have clear and good goals for what students should learn. My old high school teacher always said, "Anyone who doesn't know where he wants to go can't find the way there." With clear objectives it will be much easier to get a professionally relevant and fair assessment of the student's work. But in addition, we need a strong improvement in the assessment work done in Norwegian school. For a number of years, under various working party governments, both without and with SV, and under Bondevik governments, the assessment work in Norwegian classrooms has been almost completely privatised. It has been left to the individual teacher to set grades and give assessments at his/her discretion. I didn't mean to say anything about PISA in my post, but I would point out that also in this area, the OECD has revealed that the state of things in Norwegian school can get better. Norwegian students are not systematically followed up well enough, and many students are so-called underwriters. For the Progress Party, it's important that we use all the tools we can to get a better quality school. Objectives, good assessment tools, national and international tests and a positive and healthy competition where we all focus on opportunities for improvement can contribute to this. And last but not least, we need good teachers who master both educational tools and assessment tools, and who are able to cooperate with the student and the home in a constructive way, so that the student can take advantage of his learning potential. I'm startled when I hear teachers say that primary school is going to be a kindergarten where young people are going to play with knowledge and competence, as we are, among other things. sees in the Newspaper today. In my opinion, such attitudes are not at the best of the child, and that is after all for the students we run Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e828	In the world of rhythmic gymnastics, a spagate is considered elegant and beautiful. I'm not sure if spaghetti is just as dressed when it comes to politics. My starting point today was probably a little more critical than the feeling I got when I sat and heard the councillor up here. I was very positively surprised that a State Council from the Socialist Left spoke so warmly for evaluation. All the warm descriptions of the evaluation that the Council of State came with, I can stand behind, no doubt. I agree, if I understood the Council of States correctly, in what he says, that the worst thing about motivation, that is, what really destroys the school curriculum, is that you don't have any evaluation and evaluation. But then, however, the Council of State and the Red-Green Government have a problem and a challenge. On the one hand, the Socialist Left Party's political programme for the period clearly states that the Socialist Left Party is not in favour of characters. Now it's obviously a position they laid off as they went into the red-green government. But the position is just as full, and there is reason to believe that it also affects politics. I am a hot follower of assessment. That is why I think it is positive that the Party of Socialist Left now reluctantly or reluctantly has been dragged along and speaking hotly for judgment. The problem for the Council of State and the Government is to say that they speak nicely for assessment, but the school policy toolbox is if not empty, so at least in the process of being emptied. It is of little help if you have come to know that assessment is good, if you do not succeed in supporting it with quality studies, with research and with clear results. Therefore, support for assessment culture and quality and school requirements remains half-hearted. One example is the government’s fear of the school contribution indicators. It's a difficult word for a very simple principle, that there won't be any better results in school having more secrets. There won't be better results from pulling down the school curtain and shutting the rest of the community out. It's not going to be better because politicians, school leaders, students, parents and the community around it don't know what's going on in schools. One could almost suspect the government to be concerned about the consequences of the attitude it has been reluctant to take, namely that one should have national tests. You're worried about what happens if the results of the tests come out. The assessment culture at school must be based on quality, grades and assessments, but also on measurement and testing. Nevertheless, the current assessment system is not optimal. I guess it's like democracy, that's the worst system we have, except for all the other options. But nevertheless, today's assessment system, with the character system as a crucial part of it, has some clear advantages. First of all, it's the system that we know about that is as objective as possible. At the same time, numerical characters allow us to ensure this through systematic research, transparency, testing and evaluation. A school doesn't get any better if you don't figure out what's going on at school, and it doesn't get any better at all because when they get there, these results are kept secret and kept away from the rest of the population. Then I must also make a little visit to the representative Kristoffersen. It is not that the evaluation system in Norway should say something about your social skills. I'll actually go as far as to say that it's deadly if you have an assessment system to consider you as a human being and what social skills you have. The assessment system shall say something about one thing. The character should say something about one thing: what professional content you have been able to perform, how good you are in a subject, and what you have managed to achieve in relation to other students. Therefore, it is also important to have a system of assessment that does something more than that. The right has long been the subject of mandatory additional comments next to the numerical character. It is a proposal that I hope the government parties will also take up. With regard to the proposal for a fifth grade assessment, there is reason to ask the question: what is the difference between almost all other children in the world, who have grades from early school years, and Norwegian children? Obviously, there is no difference in natural abilities or natural equipment. The only difference we can see, at least when it comes to school, is that Norwegian children perform evenly more poorly in most subjects than children who have grades from early on; they perform better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e850	Students learn the best and the most when they understand what to learn, and what is expected of them. They learn best when they get good, concrete, positive feedback about the quality of the work they do, when they see what they need to do more when they know what it takes to get ahead of the process. Students need to know the criteria they are being evaluated for, and they need to be given good judgement and advice on what to do in order to move on in the learning process. It is also important that students learn to assess their own work. We have a school today that doesn't largely equalize the social differences. This is serious. This was something that SV in the government immediately grabbed hold of, among other things. Through the big news... and no one was left, where we started to establish a fair assessment system in school to get a much smoother and fairer assessment. It's also socially equalizing. The assessment system we have in school today has not worked well enough. Teachers and principals have not had enough competence in this area, and it has not been systematised well enough. It is serious, and there is something SV has immediately grasped. We have established a permanent system of continuing training of teachers in priority areas, where assessment is one of the priority areas. We've started a new principal's training, which will also be an important area of assessment. We'll bring a new teacher training in a short time. In this teacher training, the competence of the newly trained teachers in assessment will be an important area. The previous government provided a teacher training course in which assessment was not high enough as a priority. We have a proposal to hold student interviews every six months from the very first class stage. This is important. We introduce mandatory screening tests in reading. The new national tests to be supportive of the individual student’s work shall be supportive of the teachers. It is important that this is done locally, and the tests should not be used to compare schools. Let's put sample samples into writing. We put in place guidance curricula because it is the curriculum that should guide the assessment, what students should learn. When you listen to the Right here today, it sounds like it's the characters that are the most important in relation to what students are going to learn. No, it's the curriculum, and it's based on the curriculum students have to evaluate. A large national trial — Better assessment practices — has been launched in school. About 77 schools are involved. This has been assessed along the way and has an accompanying research. We have had many good, concrete experiences here on how to get the best possible assessment practices in school. We take ratings in school seriously. It is not as Right-wing claims that grades promote good learning and adapted training. There are good feedback and assessments in the school that promote this. The right-hand response to the assessment system is to publish the results of the national tests — and more grades and more grades. The Right Party and the Advance Party want grades from the fifth class. This is based on ideology and not on knowledge. It is also, unfortunately, completely wrong medicine in order to introduce a better assessment system in school. I am very pleased that the Swedish Government has promoted a good quality system of assessment practices in schools, which we are implementing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e872	Not everything that counts can be counted. I think there are things in the school's mission that can't be measured. I think you can get good character without having good character. I also think that we would have done well to expand our learning vision a little bit in Norwegian school. We've been very happy in the OECD. If we could also enjoy UNESCO's learning columns, maybe we'd get a wider perspective in our school system. You talk about ‘learning to know, learning to do, learning to be, and learning to live together’. The discussion we've had here today, on the one hand, is that everything should be open, that's the only blessing, and on the other hand that we should rather try to tighten up, because that would be the rewarding thing to get good development in school. Oslo is used as an example of the municipality of transparency. I think we have to be so honest to say that the developments we've seen in Oslo schools have not come primarily because of transparency, but because of all the efforts made to change the results that transparency showed. I think we'll end up in the ditch if the whole discussion is about openness or not transparency. It's about what resources we put in, and how we solve the challenges. I think the interpellant is dealing with an important topic, because there is little doubt that grades are crucial for the individual student. Ratings open and close doors and possibilities. They decide career choices and job opportunities for the rest of their lives. Therefore, it must not only be an important objective, but also a requirement that students be guaranteed a fair and good characterisation – a characterisation based on the student’s skill level, not on the school on which you go, the teacher you have had, or on other external reasons. The debate on characterisation has in the past been very marked by the question of whether you are for or against grades. I am pleased that we can have a debate that is more constructive, where we focus on ensuring the quality of our students as fair an assessment as possible. I am of those who want to maintain the exam as one of the assessment methods. In the workplace, too, situations in which one has to perform under pressure will occur. That's why it's a useful experience. But it is also important to see that the examination assessment has some weaknesses. There are many elements that can be played out on whether to take a bad or a good exam, which are not necessarily linked to the level of knowledge of the individual student. Therefore, it may also be appropriate to rethink in relation to the conduct of the examination. More use of tools for exams has been tried out by many to make exams more relevant to the challenges faced in the workplace. I still think there may be a need to look at other types of assessments in addition to and as a supplement to today's exam. One option that the Student Organisation and representatives here have been involved in today is directory evaluation. With such an evaluation, the student's work throughout the year will be included. Many students feel that they are not adequately shown what they can do during an exam or on tests. Through directory evaluation, different forms of work will be counted for the final character. This, I think, will help us get a fairer assessment where students can show a wider range of what they can do. Is it really possible to ensure an objective characterisation? That's a hard question, because we're not machines. It will always be a human aspect – at good and bad – that will reflect on how to judge others. However, I do not believe that four should be required to have these assessment criteria as objective as possible. We need to constantly assess whether the characterisation practices of each school are consistent with this requirement. Here, it is also important that national authorities maintain strong pressure, along with school owners, in order to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e891	Assessment is difficult. It's good that Gundersen takes up the theme, so it can be illuminated from multiple sides. The debate also gradually shows a great deal of breadth. Mr Eriksen promises in the debate, for example: attitudes – the character of the characters. I'm not going to go further, but I think there doesn't have to be any contradiction in it. I also disagree with the interpellant when it says in the interpellation that grades are central to providing appropriate training. There'll be too narrow feedback. But that students have to get concrete feedback about what they're doing, and about what's going on for them to get better, it's not hard to agree with Gundersen. And that is, of course, because there is a set of rules for assessing students. In the regulations of the Training Act, several A4 pages deal with assessment, both with and without grades. I'm not going to read everything, but I'm going to quote a little bit from them. The new ones came into force as late as August 2007. Under the heading ‘Implementation and final assessment’, it is quite clear: ‘Students shall have in-flight assessment and final assessment. The assessment shall provide a running instruction in the training as a guide to the student. It shall help promote learning, develop the skills of the student and provide a basis for appropriate training. In-flight assessment may be of both character and character.’» It's really very well written, but it's probably the use it lacks, so far. It is also stated in these regulations that it is necessary to demonstrate that assessment has been made. I think that's pretty important. In addition, there shall be dialogue on developments. There will also be some kind of in-flight assessment. The teacher shall have a close dialogue with the student on the development of the school. Number characters will never be enough. Guidance, conversation in confidentiality between teacher and student, becomes very important, and I think it can develop the student in the right direction. I think it's very important. In addition to this, it can also be mentioned that the Directorate for Education now has proposals for new regulations out of consultation, so that there will be a clear development in this. In St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, it was noted that the individual assessment was not good enough. The ministry pointed to four points that they were not satisfied with. First of all, it was the code. It was also the case that both the teacher and the school lacked competence. There was a weak assessment culture in the school, and there was too little research on individual assessment in Norway. As stated by the Council of State, work is now under way in these areas. So the challenges in the assessment field are being addressed. It should also be emphasised that good evaluation work is being done in Norwegian schools, but the differences are too large. I usually mention St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008 as often as I can. It is pointed out, among other things: on a permanent system of continuing training of teachers. That's what we get from the harvest. Seagoing student assessment will be an important part of this, for assessment is a major part of the teacher’s work. In addition, as everyone knows, there will be a big message about new teacher training. In the last part of the interpellation, Gundersen mentions nice and strict schools in terms of characterisation. I almost think that this can be drawn down to the individual teacher, because we do know all the concept of ‘smart’ or ‘stringual’ teachers. It doesn't just go on discipline, it can also go on grades, and here it's a challenge. One does not escape the fact that there is some discretion in characterisation. Most teachers, such as has corrected the same styles, will have experienced a little disagreement about what was the right character. I don't think we'll avoid it. One would have given Mg/G – the time it was letter character – another would have given G/Mg. It's not that careful, I think, but the total picture has to be right. It is therefore important that there are different types of assessments being made. The student assessment must be broad, different relationships must be weighted, and there must be a system that is understandable and perceived to be fair. I will finish as I started: assessment is difficult, but with more research, good training, clear criteria and clear awareness, the school will succeed. That's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e918	Once you have a certain experience in life, just sit and nod when you hear the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn. I have been through all the stages of assessing Norwegian school. I am even a person who has gone to a school where we had grades from the fourth grade, without feeling that it was a hunting psychosocial environment, and without anyone being tormented. On the contrary, we had a teacher who was so exceptionally good that he was a safe adult, he knew his subjects, and we were all lifted. So there's a lot of versions of how we're going to do it. But I think what the teacher taught me, which is the core of what the interpellant took up – and what the council was about – is that you have to know what to learn away, and you have to know how to find out that those who are going to learn it are learning it. That's the nucleus. If I'm going to sharpen it in my language, it's clear that it's just as pointless to go through a school without measuring what you're learning, and without having a measuring tool, like it's trying to have a sports exercise called jumping altitude without a list. Either the list is 20 centimeters, 50 centimeters, 1 meter or 2 meters above the ground, you have to know what you're stretching to, and what you can do. I perceive it at least so that in this room there is a consensus that we should not have a high jump without a list in Norwegian school. This is a very important starting point, because it means that we can discuss how to master, how to stretch – it's called adapted training in Norwegian – and what is the knowledge about it. My experience is that that knowledge is very spread, which the interpellant took up. When we have tried to correct it through the promise of knowledge, which has gradually gained a very broad political support, there is no doubt that I have encountered the same phenomena that the interpellant and others have addressed on my walks through life. I've met teachers who've never learned – or maybe had five hours in – how to learn how to read it, but they've had three or four weeks of dialectic knowledge. And they're partly recently educated. This has led to the pressing questions raised by Astrid Søgnen, the representative of the country's largest school owner, in a seminar with the Committee a year ago: we need to know if the teacher's training is now learning to practice the skills requirements and how to measure them in the knowledge promise. Oslo Municipality for its part has found out that you have to add 50 hours wherever people come from to get it. Therefore, it is my conviction that there is a significant difference between the municipalities of the country in how to measure these skills, and how the teachers' groups are equipped to deal with them. I see that we are in the middle of debates we've had here before. We are away from how school owners must be made aware, by taking responsibility for good management in schools, taking responsibility for good further education, and we are away from the debate we are going to have later, in ours, about what kind of teacher education we have. But on the way there, at least we have to be willing to do what I perceive is that both the interpellant and the Council of State were in, we have to acquire the knowledge that is, and we have to make sure that the knowledge is owned by those who are to stand and teach, where they work. In this context, I have never seen in my life the contradictions between, as the representative Enger said, the character and the characters. Nor have I seen any contradictions between having grades on crucial points in an educational course and having in-flight assessments, for example. directory assessment, which I have seen working. I've seen little kids in oslo schools wandering around with maps – yes, it looked like they were doing well. I've looked at the contents of the folders, and I know that if you're going to use such a directory assessment, it takes a lot, not least from the teacher. Because you have to work so specifically with the individual student that the feedback you give should be there. So everyone in this room knows that you have the right to get written feedback in an appropriate form and in an appropriate way already from the first class. Being equipped to do it requires a lot. Then we're back to further education, and of course we're also back to what kind of basic teacher education we have. I also agree with the representative Gundersen that the debate we should have had, or at least should have more pressure on, is whether school contribution indicators can complement the picture of what we are told about the content of individual schools. It's left's perception that there's no contradiction between enjoying school and having a high professional level. But it demands both professional and educational, school - owner, school - management, and teachers. So I would like to say that I think this is an occasion that is now systematically neglected in the whole country, and that is that very few municipalities are conducting the debates on the content of the school that they can do, among other things. a debate on the objectives of the school is to be conducted on the basis of the agreement concluded between the Local Governments’ Central Association and the Education Organisations, which states that before establishing or revising working time agreements locally, a debate on the objectives of the school is to be held. And a debate on the school's objectives is, among other things,What do you learn? How do you learn? Then one might try to eliminate some of the differences that the representative Gundersen made, namely the difference between ‘smart’ and ‘strong’ municipalities, ‘smart’ and ‘stressy’ schools, etc. Such a debate is persuasive. In any case, the left will encourage all the parties represented to take responsibility for the fact that the parties' municipal politicians are raising these debates. One rarely becomes dumber by wise local government debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e937	I think it's been a bit of an exciting debate. There is no doubt that there are some lines below. I tried to raise the debate from a very concrete issue, which I understand at least someone in position understood, as the representative Enger, while the representative Lena Jensen plunged straight into the ideological trench and did not really answer the question. But the important thing is that the Council of State gave indications that he understands this and takes it seriously. When he also signaled that it was gratifying that there was a broad consensus about an evaluation in the school, it is probably SV who has approached the rest. I think that when it comes to grades, you have to be able to have more thoughts in your head at the same time, as the representative Dørum was inside. There is no contradiction between good feedback and other feedback as part of the en route evaluation, where you then end up in a character that needs to be set. But then one must also have control that they are set fairly fair and correct. That was the background for the interpolation. I guess a lot of people have understood that, so I'm not going to do any more about it. So to the representative Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, because I'm a little surprised at what she said. Among other things, she said: that she could not readily sign that there is a weak evaluation culture in the Norwegian school. It's actually in St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, on page 79, that ‘there is a weak assessment culture and assessment practice in school’. It's right there. I did not register that someone in the position took a distance from that statement when the big message was processed. It's got to be. The representative Kristoffersen also said that poor grades are destructive to motivation. I can't sign that statement that way either. I want to remind you of what Gudmund Hernes said, an unknown worker partyman: ‘In Norway, it is common to point out that performance requirements can lead to anguish of performance. It is easy to forget that they also often lead to performance.’ As for the discussion of whether there should be grades from the fifth grade, I think it might be very good, as is also assumed in the programme proposal to the right, if there is agreement between parents, students and school that there is an appropriate means to use. So finally, with school contribution indicators and transparency. I think it's a very central part of developing an active school ownership. As also pointed out by the representative Dørum: there is once again a prerequisite for good and active school ownership and an interaction between national and school ownership, and to ensure that the evaluations carried out are good. There, it will develop school contribution indicators and have transparency around them as good instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e955	One of the advantages of the Left, the Smallest Party of the Biggest, which usually comes to the end of the debates in my field, is that the representative Dørum can sum up the debate in a brilliant way, as I thought he was doing now. He drew in many of the perspectives that have been up, in a largely good and reflective debate. However, I have to comment briefly on a few things that the representative Røe Isaksen mentioned, which I believe I may not have gotten along with, or that at least I look a little different at. What has been said for many decades is that we need a much better and more comprehensive feedback, evaluation, assessment of students if we are to create improvement and motivation. That's why we're now forced to make clear improvements in this area, and make it a new requirement, i.e. that every six months we have to have a conversation about the progress and development of the student in relation to the goals of competence, that we try out the basis for the characters and written feedback and a much wider use of folder assessment in the Norwegian school. So it's like the representative, Gundersen, in a very good and reflective way, I think, pick up – in case not everyone has it up – is that there's a problem with the character system, that even if you have a number character to give equality, the reality shows that it's not quite like that. There are considerable differences in how one understands a level, and perhaps even systematic differences between what he calls ‘smart’ and ‘string’ schools, and that is why it is not enough. One must have a number of these measures, but one must also work more with understanding what a character or level means, and have an extensive commitment to competence in those areas. So it's in that part of the Right that the interpellant now started, a reflected and good view of this, which supports whether what SV has said for a very long time, that characters themselves are not enough; one must have a much more extensive and better feedback and evaluation, which must be supplemented with other things. I am still very pleased that there is a very broad connection to the Stortinget. The question of school contribution indicators has been asked by Stortinget to look again. I'll do that, of course. I just want to add that what the OECD wrote in the autumn in a report that was mentioned here was not that it's the system we should have, but they recommend a system where you can see how much school improves students from the point of view they have, that they can learn, and that they can compare it. Of course, we're going to go into this and come back to it. I thank you again for a very good debate with many good contributions, which shows broad agreement on the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e970	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e986	I have raised the debate on medically assisted rehabilitation today because this treatment offer for very many drug users does not work after the intention. LAR was meant to be a part of the detoxification, not the final answer to the russian problem. The truth is, LAR does not give drug users what they need to achieve long-term drug-freedom. We record a development in which medication and new addiction or even state take-over of drug addiction seem to be the answer to any drug problem. The Council of State proposal to consider heroin printing before Christmas is just one example of how wrong it can be to give up the goal of drug users becoming drug-free. And on the part of the state, it facilitates a realism that maintains the distance from society you live in, rather than trying to give the drug user a new chance and a new life. There is no comprehensive evaluation of the LAR scheme, although treatment provision has existed in Norway for 10 years. But so-called knowledge search and experience show obvious shortcomings in the offer. Even though we need significantly more knowledge of the scheme, we can still refer to experiences that say that LAR should succeed, it requires a much stronger back-up than what we have today. A comprehensive social offer is crucial to our success with the LAR. But let me start by staying a little bit at the intention of LAR. When LAR was established as a nationwide treatment provision, the offer was intended to be a step towards the ultimate goal, namely a drug-free life. This may be why LAR joined Stortinget as an important treatment. I think most people then thought that LAR would be a helping part of detoxifying more drug users, and that it would create a new drug problem in the near future. Today we know that it was a truth with great modifications. So the drug was to be a tool on the way to the goal of abstinence. Then you can get quite upset when the Rusmis users’ association can tell you that more and more people report that they are not getting help for detachment or detachment in the LAR, but on the contrary they are told that they have to expect lifelong medication with methadone or other medications. At the same time, research has been submitted from among others. The National Institute for Public Health, which shows that it is more difficult to be treated out of methadone use than out of drug use. In addition, when the Council of State wants — or at least estimates — heroin to be distributed to drug users, it is not surprising to question whether it is still and should be a Norwegian drug treatment target to contribute to abstinence. Figures have been provided showing that there is an increasing number of deaths from methadone use. It's scary that we're using a drug that we really don't know so much about. We also need a more comprehensive investigation into the impact of today’s system and the effects of LAR treatment, and we need research results from Norway because we are a country that has actually used much higher dosages in LAR treatment than many other countries. We also know that there are a number of – to say – problems related to the side effects of this drug. Nor can one hide the fact that there has been an increase in the incidence of side use among methadone users, and that, as I mentioned, the number of people dying of methadone is increasing. This may be due to the illegal sale of methadone in the street. We should be aware that, in the long term, we may be at risk of a much more difficult drug problem among drug users who have combined methadone with cocaine and Rohypnol, for example. It is therefore serious that we know so little. I am very interested in asking the Council of State if he would like to take the initiative to get more knowledge on the table in terms of LAR, i.e. an overall evaluation. At the outset, I mentioned that there is little doubt that a social and psychosocial approach is crucial if LAR is to be successful for each drug user and if the objective of drug freedom is to be achieved. One might wonder if LAR actually helps to strengthen the situation of drug users, and whether the use of drugs gives society a sleeping cushion so as not to give patients better protection. As I see it, medically assisted rehabilitation is at risk of medically assisted treatment. Without a reinforced social welfare scheme that includes access to housing, housing, housing, job opportunities or schooling, and a scheme related to the use of leisure time and better aftercare, we make the preconditions for a new life and a new start very difficult. In my view, the Council of State has a major challenge when it comes to strengthening this part of the care. That's just how we can claim to have drug care and not just drug treatment. There are considerable gaps and differences in the follow-up of both drug-free drug addicts and drug-assisted rehabilitation in Norwegian municipalities today, despite individual needs to ensure this for the user. I hope the Council of State can, and I think he should, make sure that the municipalities commit themselves to such follow-up before one of their citizens receives approval for LAR treatment. We know that in Health Mid-Norway this is far on the way in system with good results. At the same time, in my opinion, it is appropriate to consider whether a significant amount should be set aside for the purchase of drugs in the LAR for each krona. new employees, housing services, social activities and labour or school-based measures. It might sound like I'm very negative to the LAR treatment itself. I'm not really that. Many have been helped, and many have needed it. But I think we should not start this unless we also have the other measures clear. In the autumn of 2007, the measure dealt with a provision of the Special Health Service Act which allows for the possibility of laying down the LAR criteria. For the time being, we have only heard of guidelines or new regulations, but they have not come. My concern here is that it may be possible to liberalise legislation, so that more and more people are to be integrated without other procedures being tried first, and not least without the existence of a good enough health and social service related to LAR, which is, of course, the most important problem today. In view of the desire of the state councils to perhaps distribute heroin, it is justified to wonder whether he wants drug treatment in Norway to be dominated by drug treatment, or whether drug treatment should mainly be based on detoxification. If the latter is the target, we do not exclude that more long-term treatment sites are required for treatment over one year than is currently available, after, for example, Health South-East has significantly reduced the number of places. They are now down to 15 places in total throughout the Health South-East area, which will be allowed to have long-term spaces beyond one year. It is also important that we see much less cut in 24 hours, as we have seen that it has been in recent years. In addition, it is essential that there is no requirement for detoxification institutions to accept LAR patients. Many detoxification institutions want to re-grow drug-free treatment because the environment becomes tougher for many by mixing these patient groups, but not least because they can demonstrate that they are successful in getting patients out of drugs. We need a diversity of good and strong treatment institutions. Then we must also allow some institutions to carry out drug-free treatment to a greater extent than has been the case today. Finally, we are calling for more dignity in the care of the russian. In the face of a drug addict, society must look and take care of the whole human being. It requires that we provide a psychosocial environment related to detoxification and treatment, both in drug-free treatment and in LAR treatment, which also gives all former drug users much stronger protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1022	There is no doubt that there is an important issue that the representative Mrs Davøy raises here. I'm, of course, happy to give my thoughts on the questions she asked in the interview. Let me start by saying that the annual appropriations for the drug field have, after all, been strengthened by a total of 685 million. kr so far during the working hours of this government. We have also provided a general increase in activity in regional health enterprises and a growth in the local economy. This has also contributed to the strengthening of the drug field. Most of the measures in the escalation plan for the drug field are under way, according to the Health Directorate’s annual status report for this plan. I am absolutely sure that there is a cross-political consensus that we will continue to bet on the drug field in the years to come – even after the escalation plan for the drug field expires in 2010. In this way, it is easy to refer to the budgetary position of the Health and Welfare Committee to the 2009 government budget. Furthermore, many users, patients and their relatives experience that the help is not there when it is needed and that the measures are not related. Of course, it's about resources, about capacity and not least about competence. But it's mostly about failure, especially in terms of lack of capacity and competence at all stages of the system. Not that failure at all stages must be experienced in such a way that nothing works. It has to be understood that much works well, but especially in terms of capacity and competence, there is too little at all – and therefore the concept of failure at all stages. It is important for me to say that today’s organisation and funding of municipal and specialist health services do not promote opportunities for good interaction for patients who need close and comprehensive follow-up, for example. drug addicts. This is therefore one of the key themes of the cooperation reform process. LAR is the area of drug treatment that is actually best documented. When the representative Davøy says that we know little, I do not agree with that. We know, for example. by reading the status report for 2007, there are 4,014 participants at that time. 30.2 pst. are women, the mean age is about 40 years, nine out of ten stay in treatment over time, 80 pst. of patients living in owner-occupied or rented dwellings, 29,82 pst. are in professional rehabilitation and rehabilitation and 39,42 pst. are in receipt of a disability pension or an old-age pension. Of those who are dissatisfaction, we know that a good part of them is because of mental disorders, where depressive symptoms amount to 16 pst., severe anxiety symptoms amount to 20 pst., delusions amount to 3.8 pst. 25 pst. are in work or education. Patients have a lot of contact with service providers. 44 pst. has had contact with the LAR centre in the last month, 61 pst. with the social office, 55 pst. with fixing, and about 50 pst. has held a meeting of the group of responsibilities. I'm taking this with me, because there's actually very few things in health care that we know so much about as the LAR patients. Nor is it right to say that we have not carried out a comprehensive evaluation, because we carried out a broad evaluation in 2004. The Health Directorate summarized that LAR contributes to enabling many very needy heroin addicts to receive other treatment and rehabilitation. That is the main conclusion of the Health Directorate on this evaluation. The evaluation also shows – and it is important – that there is a clear correlation between rehabilitation efforts and treatment outcomes. On the basis of the evaluation, the Directorate-General for Health was entrusted with the task of developing national technical guidelines for LAR. And as the representative Davøy was also involved in his post, the Stortinget decided in 2007 to provide a legal basis for LAR. My ministry is now preparing this regulation, and both the guidelines and the consultation note on the regulation will be sent to joint consultation in a very short time. It is finished from my hand, so there is more printing and technology that is left before the broadcast. So we know a lot about how to deal with LAR patients. The 2004 evaluation and the status report of the Centres for Racism and Addiction Research, SERAF, show, as the representative Davay also points out, that the social follow-up in the municipalities varies and is scarcely single. In the mission of the National Guidelines for LAR, the Directorate-General for Health has therefore been asked to pay particular attention to follow-up in the municipalities. We know that the better specialist health services and municipalities are able to follow up, the better the results are for the individual patient in the LAR. But we also need to recognise that these patients have often been opiate addicts for many years, and many have, in addition, somatic and mental disorders. Therefore, we cannot expect miracles overnight – perhaps miracles are the right word to use in this context, as it is Deafness asking. Rehabilitation takes time. LAR patients also face challenges in re-establishing or re-establishing social networks and providing services, for example: indebted arrangements. Many have incurred a lot of debts. Many are lonely, and they don't know anyone in a drug-free environment. To get a fit for life, they need help to get a living. They need employment, activation and education — simply to find something meaningful to do. Here we have great challenges. According to interpellanten Davøy, we also have too little knowledge of the use of drugs by LAR patients. And that's just partly right. The SERAF status report provides a relatively good overview of the use of drugs by LAR patients. Among other things, heroin use is very low in this group, while the use of sedatives is widespread. The risk of drug abuse in LAR is increasing in the illicit market. Here is the representative Davøy and I fully agree. We do not have a good enough overview of how drugs prescribed in the LAR are distributed on the illegal market. We know too little about why patients buy and use LAR medicines outside of LAR, and we don't know enough about who this is. But we know something: the Public Health Institute has shown that the majority of methadone-related overdose deaths concern people who use methadone illegally. That these drugs are being distributed illegally, we are taking seriously, and many patients in the LAR are getting reinforced access to the drugs. It has its advantages and disadvantages. The new LAR guidelines will focus on these issues. SERAF is now working on a project among LAR patients to find out more about the illicit distribution of LAR drugs. Finally, the escalation plan for the drug field places considerable emphasis on raising skills and quality, especially for community staff. This year, more than 250 million will be given. SEK in grants for development work, including: to LAR work, to increase efforts in municipalities. The government has also established drug counsellors in the county, which are specifically responsible for monitoring the work of municipalities facing major challenges. In the future, I will put increased pressure on municipalities to provide better and more comprehensive services to LAR participants and people with drug problems. This is a better social economy, but above all it is best for individuals that good help is available where they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1050	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and also for some documentation that is important. It is true that the annual appropriations for the drug area have been strengthened and, in particular, much more are included in the LAR programme. As the Council of State itself says, action is not always related, and competence and capacity are lacking in drug treatment today. As I said in my post, we know something. I referred to some studies that have been carried out. My point is that I think we would have benefited from, and that it is necessary, perhaps to have an overall evaluation that is much more thorough than the one we've had to. There have been some searches for knowledge, and there have been some individual studies. The councils themselves were in a lot. This with side effects is also not well documented. There are at least many people who have contacted me, and who are unsure whether the large doses they use make them have a good deal of side effects. We have very high death rates associated with methadone – side abuse was within the Council itself. The sale and market for methadone sales have been increasing. I ask again, could it be that we should have had something more complete in terms of what must be the conditions for LAR, in order to succeed in this treatment? Although we know that rehabilitation, psychosocial interventions, and that it is probably crucial for patients, it is actually the case today that many patients do not. They're just being treated. I want to challenge the Council of State once again: shouldn't it be that when a patient receives LAR treatment, you shouldn't start with these drugs unless you had first tried an alternative without medication? Secondly, to start with LAR treatment, an appliance must be clear with other measures. Drug - interest organisations and others today point out that this is the major weakness. No, no miracles happen overnight – it may have done so sometimes. I agree with the Council that drug treatment takes a very long time, too many people take that year. That's why it's incredibly strange for me to allow you to reduce your drug treatment as drastically as you've done, especially in Health South-East. Long-term treatment has decreased — it is becoming more and more short-term treatment. I'm afraid that even ruspacers will eventually become swing door spacers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1067	Let me start by saying that in general, I think that the knowledge situation in the drug field is too bad. There is every reason to think through the need for even more thorough evaluation and knowledge acquisition. Not least, I think of this in relation to the fact that there is agreement in this room, including me, that when the plan of action we now have is going out in 2010, it will be replaced by a new – a more binding plan of action in the field of drugs. I often use to compare my thoughts about the plan with the plan we have had for escalation in mental health protection. I will take with me what Laila Davøy says about the need for comprehensive evaluations, as a basis for the work on the escalation plan. So just a few comments on what should be the gateway, what should be the basis for getting LAR treatment. The representative, Bavøy, points to two aspects. Other treatments must have been tested first, and there must be a complete scheme. I would say that is what is the starting point for today's LAR programme. So, it's not supposed to be the first option. Drug-free alternative treatment should be tried. I don't think I've met anyone who's in the LAR program, who doesn't tell me they've had attempts on the Tyreli collective, or have had other types of drug-free treatments, that it hasn't done well, and that it's finally become the LAR. Last night, I opened a new women's ward at the Gate Hospital of the Salvation Army. I then sat down and talked to many drug users who were on their way into the LAR. They described how they themselves – and in cooperation with others – worked hard to get an apartment, get work, or get a clear income situation – so put around. They were concerned that this was demanding, because they did not start with the LAR until it was in place. We don't have to describe it in such a way that LAR is kind of a thing that starts very quickly without any alternatives being tested, or without requiring a whole. It can certainly be done better, there is no doubt about it! But that it doesn't happen all the time is not the case. Finally, I agree with Laila Davøy that drug treatment takes time, and that it will happen over many years. But it is not certain that the best drug treatment is for many years in an institution, for one has to live with one’s drug problem in one’s everyday life. More treatment must take place there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1080	It's a very big thing that the interpellant brings up today. If we look at the overall treatment provision of drug addicts in Norway, it was at the end of the year about. 4,700 were in LAR programmes, and during this year you can get up to 5,000. The estimated target population is in the waters of 8000 to 12000 in Norway. This is now a very large and central part of the treatment provision here in the country. In the light of that, it is very good that we get this debate, because we may have underestimated the question of follow-up. The working party is for these LAR programmes. I have also received many enquiries from people who have succeeded and who say that they have had good rehabilitation and follow-up services in their place, and have come back into a good working life and family life. We have to remember that. But we also have to see the other side. As a unanimous committee expressed in the budgetary position before Christmas, and expressed on a few other occasions as well, there is a need for a stronger follow-up on the quality of rehabilitation, psychosocial work, work training, education, etc., and to achieve more individual plans, to follow up the individual better and to look at the situation. In my neighbourhoods, I see people in the LAR program who live in what is called municipal blocks, or in popular social blocs, where there are many people with major drug problems, etc., and where it is very difficult to establish themselves in a different life, with an alternative life, than all those you have around you. These people come into life situations that make it almost impossible, or very difficult, to break free from their former addiction to drugs. The figures for participation in labour-oriented measures, etc., as it was nice that the Council of State referred to – probably referred to 40-50 pst. in different categories — show that there is a large proportion that does not. It is probably not evenly distributed how well you follow up, looking at different areas of the country. It's e.g. the need to focus more on how many there are that are getting tapered down. Is there a planned dose escalation, and how is the progression? If there is no development in the treatment of the individual patient, consideration should be given to the need to apply other measures instead. Governments mention that there may be a need for even more reporting and better quality of reporting. An example of a point on which it would have been interesting to have a more detailed report is how many in the LAR programme are going to slow down in one year, and how to set up the race. Another point that I would also like to know more about, and which we get a lot of information about, is when someone is thrown out of the LAR programs, as they say. I'm sure it's different from how rigorously it's practiced around the country. There are at least many fates that are described where LAR programmes are thrown out because of problems with a urine test, etc., and then can end up in a life that creates far greater problems both for society and for itself. It is clear that there must be strict rules, so that you do not misuse medication, etc., but at the same time it must be that if you are thrown out of the LAR programme, there should be other offers, so that you do not throw yourself out into an empty space and thus major drug problems. I hope that the regulatory framework around that will also be better developed and clearer through the guidelines that are now being sent out to the hearing. There is also another issue about the LAR programmes that I think is important, and which I hope you will look at in these guidelines, and that concerns age limits. LAR works well for someone. There may be young people who have started a drug habit at a very young age and who have tried many active offers. LAR treatment can be a good solution even when you are under 25. Now I know that the code is not practiced 100 pst. The square, but I think it's important to have a flexible approach to it without it slipping into the direction that you don't try active treatment options for first-time treatment. I also believe that when we are about to develop treatment services within prisons, where we are only in the initial phase of getting treatment to avoid that the 60 pst. LAR should be used. There's a lot of things to look at, and it's a difficult area that I'm glad we could discuss today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1101	The area of rest is a very extensive area. That's true of a lot of people. It affects not only the individual drug user, but there are children and others related to it as well, as well as the socio-economic consequences. I'm actually going to be allowed to give the Council of State a boost for some of the things that are on the agenda. At the beginning of December, relatively many people put the coffee in the wretched throat when they broke up a certain newspaper and could read that the council considered heroin on blue prescription, or free distribution for given groups. Obviously, when you go into what's really said, there's reason to take this group seriously. We're going to assume that everything in the care industry has been successful. We're going to assume that we have a long way to go. The interpellant focuses on a very important problem position: where does the R of the LAR system go? I'm thinking of the following statement: if you don't have a follow-up in addition to receiving either methadone or buprenorphine preparations, that is, Subutex or Suboxone, it goes without saying that you're actually being printed to nothing. That is why I have to be allowed to say that, when dealing with the budget of the Health and Welfare Committee, I am addressing all parties and asking: can we sit down and discuss and see if we can agree on something that we believe in in the future and that can work? It actually took all the parties in the committee seriously. We sat down, and we actually got to a lot. I also want to pay tribute to the government party Jan Bøhler, who took the invitation very seriously. We got in place the wish that a rusakut had to get in place quickly, as a first instance, which is very important to save lives. We have been given the opportunity to try to prescribe these drugs, perhaps part of the decision-makers who have special competence and interest in the drug field. But we also have a long way to go. It's important that we have short-term places, but also that we have long-term places. It is important that we ensure that when a person is in treatment at a long-term institution, an individual plan is made to ensure that when he is printed, he is not printed out to the same apartment, among the same residents and the same other drug users he was with when he was written into this device. It is therefore important to have housing and labour-oriented measures in place. Debts that the individual has, as the Council of State itself had in mind, are a major problem for drug users who have been involved in treatment – when they come out again, they are the first to stand on the door, people who are going to collect old debts, whether they are from the public, who are demanding fines, or people from the criminal community who are going to collect money. Another question that I also want to address is: When is what we consider a LAR treatment to be successful, and when is it not successful? It was mentioned here – it was the representative of Bohemia who was involved – to be thrown out of the LAR process. I would venture to say that the following is unacceptable, so that others can arrest me afterwards: a heavy heroinist, who has gone on heroin in years after year, comes within the LAR system, is well followed up, gets a place to live, and maybe even gets a job. But then, through the urine samples that are regularly taken, maybe three times in a month or two or three, traces of cannabis are found, and he is then told by LAR: You no longer meet the criteria, you have broken the criteria, you should be thrown out. I dare say that is unacceptable! What is the second health service you're thrown out of? Drug users are entitled and entitled to health care treatment, and I ask the question: Is it not better to take new measures against the drug user instead of throwing him out to misery and perhaps an overdose?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1116	It's an important theme that Laila Bavøy addresses, and it wouldn't have done anything if far more people had participated in this discussion. When I was going to speak in this discussion, I was thinking about the social committee's visit to China in 1998. Of those who are on the Health Committee today, who are present now, Harald Tom Nesvik and I were on that trip. There was then a rather significant debate in advance on drug-assisted rehabilitation and use of methadone and buprenorphine as an ingredient in Subutex. I remember that for my own part at that time I was extremely sceptical, and the same was SV, for the use of such drugs. I guess that was most of the games. But I remember that John Alvheim, who was then the head of the social committee, argued very much for. Then we were in Hong Kong and were told about experience with methadone, as they described as clearly positive and, surprisingly, also without overdose deaths, probably because heroin use there is not based on injection but on inhalation. And I have to say, given how blatantly safe I and other politicians may have been in relation to what has effect, and what does not have the effect, that ten years later I would have been much more humble, because the knowledge of what works and does not work, is still deficient. I agree with the Council of State that we know a lot about those involved in medically assisted rehabilitation, as to what kind of preparations they use, including possibly in combination with methadone or with buprenorphine. But what we still know little about is a little bit the same thing as the question that Ludvig Holberg asked in his time when it was Jeppe on the mountain: why does Jeppe drink? It's been more than 300 years, and we still don't know much about it. So, what are the mechanisms behind the fact that we have been in excess of 200 overdose deaths in Norway for a few years? What is the reason for having an injection culture in Norway while having an inhalation culture in many other countries? What's the reason that while we have a transplant surgery today that allows most, that while HIV-infected people may live for 40 years and we used to think they were going to die by ten, or that while most people today survive with leukemia, we still don't know the mechanisms for how to cure people who are addicted to a drug? That's a question you have to be able to ask. Is it because for too many years we have neglected this group and have been so little busy doing something for them that we have too little knowledge? There is reason to call for research in this area which is more evidence-based, that is, professionally anchored, and which may also be based on Norwegian reality, not only the reality abroad, precisely because culture, not least the injecting culture, is very different in Norway than in many other countries. I have to say for my part, which also has a background from this, that one of the areas I personally know least about is precisely why it is so that one can see a neighbor, who really hasn't lived a life that is so very different from one's own, porting on a slope that he never comes out of, and perhaps one day just dies because of it. There are questions we need to get answers to. So I look forward to when Bjarne Håkon Hanssen now says that – as Stortinget also wants – you will continue the escalating plan within the drug field after 2010, that it is also done in a safe professional sense that the actions you are implementing are good actions that can deliver results over time. I also believe that there will be a need to invest resources in this field in relation to knowledge, which is greater than in the past – i.e. that there is simply a need to give priority to targeting the actions taken. Both Jan Bøhler and Harald Tom Nesvik were involved in the rehabilitation perspective in relation to LAR. I also fully agree that there is now a lot of focus on medicine. The public debate is a lot about it, while it's not about housing, it's about a little about profession, it's about the total content that's really about reorientation based on a situation that's probably pretty stuck to many of the users we're talking about. Then I have to say that as late as today I was presented to some figures regarding cannabis use in Norway. Reportedly, up to 400000–500000 shall use it either on a regular or occasional basis, i.e. more than once. This is an awfully high number. What kind of drug culture do we have when such a drug, which is by no means legal, can occur in so many people, and also occur over time despite the focus on adverse effects? These are questions we don't have good answers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1133	After living with and around the political field of intoxication for almost 25 years, I would say one thing that we're going to be proud of in Norway, and it's impossible in Norwegian politics to give the bluff to people who are struggling with this. There are countries around us in Europe where you give the joke, but you don't say it that way. You wrap it up in bureaucratic and other languages, like any human being who knows a little about life, marks it. So it's not allowed to give the bluff in Norwegian politics. The second is that we spend a lot of money compared to many others, and we're willing to spend more. Then it must be allowed to ask some thoughtful questions, because sometimes we get almost a'religion war' between those who believe that the Gospel Centres alone help, and those who believe in medical treatment. I believe that some people find Jesus – the Gospel Centres help – I believe that some people find help in the Bymition's businesses, and I know that some people get help from medical treatment. I also know something through a very strong post that the Church's Bymission had in the daily press one or two years ago, where there's a story of a young girl going on methadone. Then she travels to Kongsberg to meet her cancer sister to help her. But there is no one on Kongsberg who can give her what she should have. Then she tries to call the system in Oslo, and no one picks up the phone. Then she comes back to the capital on Monday, and is told that she no longer follows the system. Then she stands in a queue, and then she dies two days before the half year has passed to get back in. This is a hopeless system. That's why it's become my and Left's clear opinion that we have to distinguish between those who are going to be totally free. We should never give that goal, but those who are going to have medical treatment should not jump into a light loop of lots of performances. This treatment must be given on medical indications, and it must be ensured – as many people have now experienced – that it is given in parallel with something that is socially obligatory. In this, I perceive – I have jumped a little from and to – that all the speakers here point to it absolutely crucially: there must be some losers, or co-migrants, who link people who are struggling with life, to the auxiliaries, whether they are on the housing side, on the social side, or where it is. Several have been in and talked about it. We have some such structures in Norway with fellow migrants. For example, the Church's Social Service has its BARM centres, with few employees, but with a crowd of competent volunteers who walk with people to get them to. And then we have the opposite extreme: you have the right to medical treatment, for example. in Health south-east. If you don't get it fulfilled, and it's actually so that most people who have such guarantees in the drug field don't get them fulfilled, then you can call a nice office in Eastfold and get another chance. It's just that a person who struggles with his everyday life doesn't walk that way and call there. So there's very few coming there. But if someone had followed them up in a way -- let's call it a policy that makes sure that either volunteers or others give you a fellow wanderer -- you might have caught up with a lot, a lot more people. So it's that it's that it connects this thing that's crucial. I have faced too many situations in which the belief in one that benefits is used against people who labor. For me, these ethical dilemmas have become so that I have to say that people are struggling in different ways and that there are different ways out of it. Having humility toward the different roads, such as the representative Ballo – with respect for not hearing all the others – now addressed in connection with his activities, is where we should be. I hadn't thought 20 years ago that I would stand here and say that I would uncouple medical treatment from the social, but I'm doing it based on my life experience. And I see how something that helps someone, doesn't help others. Then we have to avoid that those who believe that everything is medical will win out in the way that they give the bluff, that is, release all the social commitments that we know help. Let me end by saying that one of the most successful actions in Norway's history, almost uncopyed, is the Self-collective of Inger Granby from 1980 to 1990, where 24 out of 30 heavily burdened people, young people from the Bergen street, were helped – not with drugs, but by adults who gave them an alternative way of life, and who then gave them a replacement family, intensely for one year and then for five or seven years of follow-up. It conflicts with health systems that say that everyone should be on cards – rather than being longer – Health South-East has such reasoning. Then I have to tell the Council of State that for us who work on this field and have some experience in life, this is a 'heal in the hat'. It may not be an entirely parliamentary expression, but it's an exact expression, because you get so specialized that you don't see people in all of this. And people have to be seen. The fact that you, for example, have removed training provision in part of these institutions and, on the other hand, having a small note to receive a module of education is a social bomb. But if we can meet on the good deeds and the debate is like that, it gets to be my contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1157	The President approves the term, for it was so well justified!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1160	I want to thank everyone. I think there have been an incredible number of good posts here today, and I want to add a few comments to them. Bohemian posts were very, very good. Both Bøhler and Ballo seem to me very well to put my finger on some areas that we need a lot more both evaluation and research around. I hope that the Council of State will also take it with me. Otherwise, I agree with Mr Dørum that we need diversity. We're all so different, and what helps for one might not help for another. To the representative of Nesvik, he asks an incredibly important question: how often should you be expelled from treatment? I will not go into the example itself, but I myself have worked in the care of my younger nurses during my younger days – at a detoxification station in Bergen. At that time we discussed this seriously. If a patient had come in so and so many times for detoxification in a while, there was a part that thought that then maybe you shouldn't get back in. But it's the way these people are sick. They're addicted to drugs, that's what's their disease. We must not become too demanding, and say that we close the door to you if you trample out once or twice. They must then be allowed to receive treatment, because they are ill. What's their problem is that they can't stop. I think we're pretty much in line with this kind of thinking. But in the old days, or earlier, there were several, other and more stringent criteria attached to this, at least some places. I am very pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that he wants to continue working with a kind of holistic thinking, and in particular evaluation, in the context of the further work on the escalation plan – that is good – and also because he says so clearly that it should be a trial of drug-free treatment first, and that overall action is very important. Of course, there are good examples. Fortunately, we find many good examples in Norway today, and I am very pleased about that. But the concern is that there are probably as many – and I'm afraid more – bad examples of where you don't get it, and there are huge local differences. I believe that we must never state the goal of abstinence for those who are affected. I want to end with a letter I got from the RIO as late as December--just a few sentences: ‘Norwegian LAR... often does not work today. It is a major focus on medicinal products and a low focus on rehabilitation. Younger and younger people join the LAR, and lately people in the LAR programme have come to me and told me about young addicts in LAR who have not even used opiates.’ And then one says that we need to have more focus on rehabilitation, and I think that all of us here have agreed on anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1183	There are many important comments and questions that have been raised in the debate. I very much agree that Norwegian drug policy must consist of our ability to obtain a wide range of offers. Then I fully agree that there must be room for both long-term places in drug-free treatment and more medically assisted treatment. Then we have to work so that everyone is allowed to develop in a professional way, because what is a review tone in all articles is that the drug trade and the drug field are immature in many ways. Although we've been working on it for many years, we haven't worked systematically, knowledge-based in such a way that we can say that we know so much. So, as I said, in a very short time it will come to consultation guidelines and regulations that go broadly as far as the way we are going to implement the LAR in Norway so far. In that regulation, all the issues raised here, including issues relating to the design of LAR programmes, age limits and dwindling, etc., will be addressed, commented on and discussed. But what I want to say as a red thread is a little bit of what the representative Dørum was about, that we're raising – you might say – the medical assessment higher. This should not be the first choice for young people, we are clear on that, but if the medical assessment requires exemption, it is not the medical assessment that overrides the criterion. So that kind of thinking will be labeled. Then I want to say – and I could perhaps start a long and big debate again – that I think we need to look into the fact that a good part of those who are currently in the LAR programme will be going on in medicine for the rest of their lives. I think they must be allowed to live full lives on that basis. We must not from this hall now raise the moral index finger and say that you are still not fully worthy because you are still on a medication. It's not that the goal for everyone should be to get rid of that medicine as well. I am very concerned that those who have now succeeded in making dramatic changes in their lives on the basis of these drugs must be allowed to succeed in that medicine.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1194	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-22.ana.ud1225e1244	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
