ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e53	The representative, Nikolai Astrup, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e56	On behalf of the representative Arve Kambe and myself, I would like to propose a review of the fuel charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e61	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e64	On behalf of the representatives of Nikolai Astrup, Øyvind Halleraker, Ivar Kristiansen, Siri Meling and myself, I would like to put forward two representative proposals. The first proposal is to set up an expert selection to deal with future electric power transmission technologies. The second proposal is to sort out a super-network for the transmission of electricity along the coast and to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e73	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e76	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Bent Höie, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I have the pleasure of making suggestions on better, faster and more legal-proof analysis and use of DNA-tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e100	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[Fotation, see page 754]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e132	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be held in Case No. 2 and 3 will be limited to 70 minutes, and speaking time will be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e143	State Council Solheim did well for the challenges facing the world when it comes to global warming with potentially high climate change, and when it comes to the negotiations we need to meet the challenges. From the Center Party's side, I want first to commend the Council of State both for the real and strong commitment he has to this important matter, and for the knowledge he shows that he has in this important area. The international climate negotiations are perhaps the most demanding international negotiations in the world, and rarely have so much been at stake. Therefore, it is decisive to close, and it is crucial that the Copenhagen meeting takes us important steps towards a legally binding agreement. The centre party wholeheartedly supports the Norwegian priorities in front of the climate summit, for which the Council of State did well yesterday. Furthermore, we are proud of the measures taken and measures taken by the Government in conjunction with the climate comrades in Stortinget, and are now implementing both international measures and the measures we have taken in our own country. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that in Norway, we have particularly good opportunities to play a leading role in this work, just to make major efforts. We have resources that make this possible, and compared to many countries, our challenges will be smaller when it comes to having resources to put in action. Therefore, our efforts must not be assessed against the population, but against the resources that we have. It is important to include the wide range of nations in concrete commitments to reduce greenhouse gases and to establish mechanisms that channel funds to achieve these objectives. Rich countries must both contribute to emission reductions and contribute to funding reductions and prevention measures in other countries. It is crucial to prevent double accounting when reducing greenhouse gases, in the form that rich countries buy emission reductions through the quota system, which are considered to be emissions both in the purchaser’s country and the investment country. This simple, but important point is that we highlight, and it is important that rich countries take this point forward. It may be easier for countries in the rich world to be with and underline this point. Here Norway can really play a role. We have a responsibility to show that rich countries take responsibility for climate change work. Showing willingness to take action both outdoors and at home is also important in order to strengthen confidence in negotiations between rich and poor countries. Norwegian contributions, whether in the form of constructive proposals for funding schemes for both prevention and climate change through the quota system, as we know, or the important rainforest rate, as agreed in this room, are part of building up under this confidence. We are also aware from the Centre Party that Norway is a small country in the negotiations for an international climate agreement. Nevertheless, our role as a rich country with an offensive climate policy makes it possible in the negotiations to be an impatient bridge builder between poor and rich countries. Our independent role as a European country outside the European Union gives us just the possibility of an even clearer role like this. The population in the world is strongly increasing, and the new human race – the increase of nearly 50 pst. which has been foretold in the coming decades – should be able to feed. The food crisis facing the world is formidable, and the last numbers indicate that it is close to a billion people who are starving. It's close up every six people on the globe. Taking into account the importance of food production must be a central element of climate change work. Agricultural aid must also be used more clearly in Norwegian aid policy, but also in international aid policy. Climate action must not be at the expense of those on earth who cannot meet their most basic needs. The objective is an international agreement into which the Kyoto Protocol can be integrated, as stated by the Council of State yesterday. It is important for the Central Party to stress that it is important that such an agreement then becomes so good overall that the Kyoto countries do not have lower ambitions. In that case, one should go further along two tracks, as the Bali Summit pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e164	Today, we are debating two issues in this debate, the State Council of Solheim's climate policy statement, and the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on proposals from the representatives of the major cities Trine Skei Grande and Abid Q. Raja on a stepping up of Norwegian climate policy before the Copenhagen climate summit. First of all, a few words about the proposal for a representative. Norway has been and is a driver for an ambitious outcome at the meeting of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen. Norway has given a very high priority to climate negotiations towards Copenhagen and has had a number of constructive and ambitious proposals and contributions in the negotiations. The climate agreement was a good start to the implementation of measures and instruments to reduce our national greenhouse gas emissions, and we support the proposalers' observation that the continuation of broad cross-policy cooperation on climate policy will be a strength for Norwegian climate policy. I expect the minority to explain their vision. So to the big thing that we're debating today. Like the representative Sande, I would also like to pay tribute to the Council of State both for the presentation yesterday and for his handling of one of the world's most important meetings and one of the most important issues facing the world. Now the world's eyes are aimed at the meeting that will take place in Copenhagen for a few days. The big question everyone is asking is whether there will be an agreement and what an agreement, if any, would be like. Will there be enough reductions? In this context, it is not likely that there will be a legally binding agreement on international law, but a political declaration of willingness. But it is important that one continues to have a legally binding agreement. For the Government, the goal of the Copenhagen Summit is clear: we want the most ambitious and legally binding agreement with as many countries as possible in the long term. More than 100 countries now support the objective of preventing global warming of more than two degrees. Countries responsible for one third of the world’s CO2 emissions have set targets for emissions reductions by 2020. In order to prevent a two-degree rise in temperature, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that global emissions need to be reduced in the near future. Then the emissions must be reduced by between 50 and 85 pst. by 2050. The rich countries must cut emissions by 25 to 40 pst. by 2020 compared to the 1990s. The promises that land has given, which are now on the table, correspond to cuts of 13 to 17 pst. We have a very long way to go. Political action is now required to prevent the dramatic consequences for the climate. Therefore, the Norwegian delegation has clear priorities for the discussions in Copenhagen. The reduction of deforestation, the financing of adaptation through the auctioning of CO2 emissions within the Kyoto commitments, the possibility of financing CO2 capture and storage through the Kyoto Protocol and the inclusion of emissions from international shipping are issues that the Norwegian delegation will focus on getting on the table during the meeting. The government already spends several billion dollars on measures such as: CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad. I am optimistic and have great faith that there will be an agreement that is crucial to the future, as a result of the meeting. We are now in a process, and it is important that we get included in the big countries of the world in this process. President Obama in the United States has given the world new hope and future faith in many areas, not least in the climate field. Eight years with Bush is now replaced by new and offensive thoughts, which delights an entire world. I will praise the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right for their efforts and cooperation in climate policy. We are six parties here on the Stortinget who have qualified us to make a climate settlement. We are the ones in this room who recognize that the climate problems are man-made. The progress party uses to say that they are not part of the climate agreement because they were not invited. The Progress Party is not part of the climate agreement, as it is the only party in Norway that spends much of its time undermining the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and its conclusions. The invitation to settle contained one single qualification requirement, namely the recognition that climate problems are man-made, and that the challenges have to be addressed in the light of this recognition. The progress party wasn't on that exam. Even today, climate policy for the Progress Party is quite easy to get wise. When Solvik-Olsen’s representative recently went to the paper show – and congratulated him on it – the deputy Arne Sortevik took the opportunity to say that he hoped for a failure in Copenhagen, and that he did not believe that climate change was the result of human activities. Former party president Carl I. Hagen stood up to support Sortevik's statements. I think it is important that we, as climate partners, now work together towards the Copenhagen meeting and not least after the Copenhagen meeting for our common challenge: a better climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e214	Let me first thank you for a statement by the Minister for the Environment that I think this time is a little easier to debate afterwards, because it is much more sober than what we have seen in the past. It seems that the government has seen that it is not just useful to have an approach with great Norwegian ambitions, that things are going to hurt in Norway, and that other countries will then copy our goals. It seems that they have seen that there are completely different things that drive the interests and motives of other countries to get an agreement in Copenhagen. I'll get into it a little bit later. Let me nevertheless say why it is worth listening to the words of the Progress Party in this area, because it is going to be completely wrong when the representative Sund once again tries to draw up a debate where one puts the Progress Party on the sideline of this question. The Progress Party made comprehensive proposals in June 2007 to the Stortinget with more than 30 measures on how to cut emissions. It is true that we want to stimulate a scientific debate. The revelations that have come after a possible hacking of a computer server at a university in England or a warning that they have been posted by an internal person show that there should be reason to continue to discuss science — not in order to have the objective of such doubt, but to have the aim of finding the best possible knowledge. Then I think it's going to be wrong when a party like the Socialist Left Party has a party leader who said at their national meeting a few years ago that everyone who is skeptical must have been bought and paid by the oil industry. It's not the way to get the best possible knowledge. It's just the way a person tries to harp to silence those who are critical. I think it's in everyone's interest to make sure that a get the best possible knowledge, whether it's to reinforce the Intergovernmental Panel hypotheses or to show that there are other hypotheses that mean more. The Progress Party does not say that there are no man-made climate change. We know that when we emit more CO2, it will be stored in the atmosphere for some time. This will increase the greenhouse effect. But it must be allowed to discuss to what extent this will affect the climate of the globe. Are you talking about half a degree? Are you talking about five degrees? There's something quite different than denying it. Here I think the Workers' Party should try to get the shades of this debate before they start to get loose on other parties. In particular, a party that claims to take this seriously should think a little bit about what kind of rhetoric they're using, and not least about what kind of policy they're pursuing. A great many of their instruments prove not to work. It creates uncertainty and moves investment out of the country. A little bit more about it later. What I, as I said, was pleased with in the statement by the Minister for the Environment, is that we are increasingly ignoring the importance of Norwegian self-pinning, Norwegian national targets, and that we believe that if we just go ahead as a good example, others will follow suit. It costs a lot, there are strange restrictions and a particularly strict climate quota law. There are many examples of things we have done in Norway, against the votes of the Progress Party, in the belief that other countries will then be excited and carry out similar things themselves. When we see what is happening in the EU, China, India, Brazil and the United States, we see that there are many other important factors present. This is about energy policy. This is about power. It's a global power policy. This is about industry. It's about jobs and economics. Everyone, even the Progress Party, wants to try to get an international agreement in place. But what's going on is that most people want the others to take the load. There is no one, at least not outside Norway, who is going to want an agreement with disproportionate commitments, which will mean that their business life is affected, and jobs are disappearing. So we see the same thing when we use Obama as an example. I have a very great sense of President Obama. When you look at the energy and climate package he presented in the election campaign, there is a lot of progress party policy in it – much less red-green policy. We can leave that debate behind. But when we see President Obama dealing with the negotiations ahead of Copenhagen, he has made exactly the same objections as the Progress Party has had to the Kyoto agreement. It is not useful to have a narrow agreement, one must have a broad agreement. All countries must have commitments, even though commitments would be less ambitious for developing countries than for rich countries. But you can't have an agreement where you end up with today's rich, industrialised countries wanting to outstrip their industry in order to reach commitments, and other countries can build their industry without having any commitments in the future. That's what Bush had. Then you can have a lot of good arguments, which I agree with, that Bush didn't have intentions, while Obama has intentions. But Obama's approach is not necessarily so much different from what the Progress Party has had in relation to what must actually be at stake. I think we should have an understanding that both China, India, Brazil, the United States and the EU would like to have as much motivation in terms of their national energy supply and energy security as they have in terms of cutting CO2 emissions. The way they approach this is based on how they approach it. It's probably such a driving force that these countries will actually achieve their targets as opposed to Norway, where we have very large, ambitious targets from the Government and from the other opposition parties. But the instruments are in no way in line with the objectives you set, precisely because we have it quite energy-efficiently. We have that very good employment. Our economy is going well. We're not in a crisis situation that forces changes. It's the Americans, who import over half of the oil they use, where an increase of $100 the barrel means $1 billion in extra expenses like nation every day to countries for which they initially have no sympathy. Looking at the EU, it will be like a few years from now, importing more than 50 pst. of its oil consumption and 80 pst. of their gas consumption, it can be understood that they have incentives to become independent of imported energy, when the consequences are seen each time Russia starts to dwindle with gas supply to Eastern Europe. The Progress Party wants an international agreement. We've done that clearly many times in this hall. What's important, and as I hope Erik Solheim will take along, is that it's important to have the width. I can see that Solheim said in his statement yesterday. But I would like to stress: it is important that we get as many countries as possible – all the big ones not least – to understand that they have a commitment. China and India would have to have a lower commitment per capita than that in the West and the United States, but it must be avoided that a new agreement results in more carbon leakage, where industrial workplaces are moved out, and thus an agreement simply shifts emissions and does not cut emissions. Although the Council of State says that this is not really about national measures, and we are going to sort of save a bit of that debate, it still fits with the draft representative we are dealing with, that I am addressing the situation at home anyway. Norway, if we're purely selfish, has a lot to do to make a good deal in Copenhagen. If we make sure that there is a price of CO2, we know that Norwegian industry is actually closer to a low-carbon society, a low-carbon society, than most other countries. I think we should give ourselves some credit for that and not always talk like we're the world's biggest polluter. Compared to what we produce – per. tonnes of aluminium produced, per barrel oil produced, per tonnes of goods carried on ships on the world market are large emissions aggregated, but there are small emissions per year. unit. Thus, with a good agreement in Copenhagen, we will ensure that Norwegian business has everything to do with this, if we provide a global approach, i.e. harmonisation of the legislation. It suggests that we should be active in relation to the debate down there. At the same time, when you look at the climate agreement you've made, which you're very proud of on the part of the government parties – not so much from the opposition anymore – and you look at the tools that have been used, we have less to boast about. Norway is lagging behind the implementation of the EU renewable directive. I still have the pleasure of hearing a clear statement from the Government on whether it is aimed at taking on the obligations that the EU wants or whether the aim is to negotiate them down. Sometimes you have to negotiate them down, because you see that this can be expensive. This could mean that you have to expand hydropower, and then SV protests. Or it could mean building electricity lines abroad. Then parts of the Center Party protest. Second, we're going to be ambitious and fulfill the obligations that are. Now the opposition asks the oil and energy minister to come to the Stortinget and explain this, because it is important to have a whole. However, in the absence of that whole, we see that Norwegian industry invests abroad, not in Norway, because the framework conditions do not mean that they should be trusted. Norway is also the only country in the EEA that does not have its own energy saving targets, which is the only country without ENØK targets. The Energy Savings Directive, or the Building Directive, is now providing the second version of the EU before Norway has ratified the first version. This is about, after all, how we are going to stimulate business to implement many of the measures that need to be taken if the policy objectives are actually to be met. That's where it fails in Norway. The biodiesel issue is one example. For four years, the Government has provided large-scale and large-scale proposals that state that tax exemptions are an important tool to stimulate increased use. Then we now have a prime minister who suddenly hassles that the tax exemption for biofuels is meaningless, because it stimulates road traffic. How can we deal with a government that begins to argue against the policy they have consistently pursued for four years? How are the authorities that, in a 2006 renewable energy notification, said that small-scale power plants should be supported, that wind power should be supported, and that biofuels should be supported, when, the following year, small-scale and biopower were out of that support scheme? Wind power has entered into a new investment aid scheme, which has been amended three times along the way. At the latest today in Bergen's Official Journal, we see a notice that the pellet industry in Norway is collapsing, and the pellet producers owe it to the Government because the framework conditions do not extend. So that's where we have to sit down now, and we have to do that after the Copenhagen meeting, and we don't think we're going to do anything before. It makes no sense to promote a proposal in October and to believe that we will revolutionise the entire policy area and give a new signal to Copenhagen in a month. However, after the Copenhagen meeting, one should sit down and look at energy policy and climate policy in a context. So we should get a common reality -- what do things look like? What are we going to stimulate? Are we going to be technology neutral, as the Progress Party will, or are we going to be close to the sector, as SV has argued, until at least recently? One should look at the report presented by the IEA – the International Energy Agency – and discuss the role of Norway as an oil and gas producer. Should we now try to clear out the fields we have, and not develop anything new, as SV argues too far away? Or should one see that even in a climate perspective, where one needs to have an energy supply that works, Norway needs to be further developed as an oil and gas nation for some decades to come? Because even if you are going to have a transition phase to renewable energy – and I believe that we need it if we are to have a global prosperity development that is sustainable and where there is enough energy at reasonable prices – you must nevertheless have a transition period where the energy supply is linked. Then the government has said that the world's gas consumption will increase by 17 pst. the next ten years. The world's oil consumption will increase by 4.5 pst. The EU is beginning to reduce its gas consumption, but because its own production is being reduced much faster, the EU will have to increase its imports by 30-40 pst. It suggests that Norway can't have the approach we've had so far, where an internal government is arguing whether or not we're going to bet on gas, whether or not we're going to start cutting production or just phase it out like a sunset, but at least we're not going to start looking at the new, attractive areas, based on a climate argument. You have to get away from it. Then you have to see reality as it is. I was also very happy when I heard the Council of State outside this hall saying that the Norwegian approach in Copenhagen would not depend on someone imposing strangerish restrictions on shipping. That's very good, because everyone knows that it's just changing flags, you have different framework conditions. Then you don't cut emissions, you just move them. I hope that signal will also apply to the mainland industry in Norway. When we dealt with the climate quota law, it was a reverse approach that the most important thing is that Norway is the most ambitious and restrictive of new emissions in Norway. It is therefore not necessary to grant free quotas for initial investments in Norway, because it is not necessary to subsidise such emissions. But that just means moving the investment out of the country. There is nothing to be achieved, but one will slowly, but surely deplete Norwegian business, Norwegian industry, by making all initial investments abroad. Therefore, there should also be a basic signal from the Government that we want to work for an ambitious agreement, we want to work for a price of CO2, because the price mechanism is the most important mechanism for cutting emissions. Investors in Norway should know that they have the same framework conditions as in the EU. You should not be afraid to lose your money by investing in Norway if you could have survived in the EU system. That explanation of principle should come quite quickly. Then there are some good things that the government has done. The rainforest bet is basically agreed by the Progress Party, but we would like to see more guarantees for the long-term benefits of this, to ensure that no money goes into corruption. I think the council is very conscious of this, but let's hope that the desire not to do anything gets deafening compared to the goal of actually getting the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e266	I would like to thank the Minister for taking the time to inform the European Parliament about the status and development of international climate negotiations. On the other hand, with two government councils in the ministry, it might be lacking that not one of them found time to inform the National Assembly. It is important that the Stortinget be kept informed about the climate negotiations. Rarely has a government had greater opportunity to commit Norway and future governments for decades to come. The positions taken by Norway in Copenhagen must therefore be broadly anchored in Stortinget. As time is running out to influence Norway’s positions in Copenhagen, it is therefore a great advantage that the Right can stand behind the main lines of the Government’s strategy. We agree that the most effective means of combating climate challenges is to use the market in the service of the environment. The better server does not exist. But it assumes that we are correcting the fundamental imbalance between the cost of pollution and the price of pollution for the world. To put it another way: it's too cheap to pollute and too expensive to be environmentally friendly. Therefore, an efficient carbon market is one of the most important measures the world can agree on in Copenhagen. However, it is of little help if the world’s major polluters are not willing to participate or if historical production in Russia is to underpin the allocation of allowances. Here it is important that Norway is a driver of a quota market that obliges everyone. The goal is to cut emissions, not move them. The right-hand proposal in the climate agreement on the protection of rainforests is one of the key measures the Government is trying to accept in a new climate agreement. Forest protection is a reasonable and effective way to slow down global greenhouse gas emissions. It is gratifying to see that the Government is not waiting for an international agreement before it starts work, but is already in progress. This is an example The Government should follow in several areas. A third area where the Council of State tries to integrate into a new agreement is that capture and storage projects in developing countries are to be approved under the Kyoto Protocol. The right supports the national effort for the capture and storage project, precisely because it has the potential to make a difference internationally. It does not matter who develops capture and storage technologies, but for Norway, capture and storage represents an opportunity to create growth and new jobs. If we're going to get something left for the investment here at home, however, we're going to depend on the price not being so high that no one else but the richest countries in the world has the opportunity to use it. The Council of State used a lot of its explanation to slow down the expectations of the Copenhagen Summit. It is a recognition that it is not on Norway’s zeal, but on the will of more powerful countries. If the rest of the world has hurt at will, it is practically non-committal for a small country such as Norway to take on the driving role. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't be a proponent, but it can explain why it's harder to bring others with us. Norway is known as the world champion of climate ambitions. Nothing pleases me any more. But what our children will judge us on is not our ability to set high goals, but our ability to translate great ambitions into concrete measures that give real results. I would say that it is totally unrealistic with today's tools and tools to cut Norway's emissions by 30 pst. by 2020, unfortunately. Nevertheless, this is Norway’s promise if the world agrees on a binding agreement in Copenhagen. I fully share the state council's statement that it doesn't matter where we cut the emissions, as long as they're cut. He's also quite right that we have to take the cheapest cuts first. At the same time, he has promised – given a good agreement in Copenhagen – that Norway will contribute to reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to 40 pst. of our national emissions by 2020. If we base the climate agreement, we assume that two thirds of this should be taken at home, and then it is not a question of whether we should either invest in quota trading and technology transfer or cut back at home, but just as much about what measures we are going to take at home that have a transfer value out there. This is not a criticism of the government's desire to cut at home – it's a fight I like to participate in. But it's a criticism of the Council of State's ability to deliver on its promises. It is totally unrealistic to believe that countries that are far poorer than Norway will be able to move from high-carbon societies to low-carbon societies if we do not show our own ability and willingness to go ahead. When it is difficult to bring other countries into an ambitious agreement in Copenhagen, it may be because the other countries have the ambition to keep what they promise. It is possible to implement 30 pst. cut in Norway by 2020, but it requires more of the Government than it has now delivered. If the government goes ahead here at home, it might be easier to bring more countries out there. So it's like that change doesn't have to be the end of anything good -- it might as well be the start of something better. Norway has technologies, competences and capital to make climate change an option rather than a problem, both at home and abroad, including: through an offensive commitment to the development of environmental technologies. But this doesn't come of itself. It requires action, even from the inner circles.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e292	The debate on climate takes very easily very political-technical turns, abbreviations such as CDM and CCS and IPCC are required words in a climate politician's vocabulary, and I suspect that getting us really links something concrete to what we often refer to as the 2-degree goal. What does 2 degree heating mean? Well, that's enough to make the European average summer as hot as the heat wave in 2003. It could be enough to melt the whole ice cream. There is also enough to melt the glaciers in the Andes mountains and the snow in Sierra Nevada – in other words, causing serious problems with the water supply to millions of people. So two-degree heating is not something to germinate off. It poses major societal challenges, but it is affordable. If we're going to reach this goal and have any chance at all, we have about ten years to get on the road. Sometimes it sounds like we have all the world's time on us. The really ambitious goals are linked to 2050, and it sounds like a very long time. For our CO2 emissions, a zero-sum game is not an annual one – it is emissions that accumulate in quantities. Therefore, the difference between starting the conversions now and waiting for 20 to 30 years is crucial. The amount of emissions may be the whole difference between two and four degrees of heating, e.g. And these are not abstract sizes: the difference between two and four degrees of warming is the difference between relatively viable climate change on the one hand and desertification on the other hand in southern Europe, mass hunger for millions of people, large uninhabitable areas of the globe, extreme weather and strong rise in sea level. When the representative of the Progress Party chooses to use the first minutes of his intervention in this debate to try to convince the rest of the Storting that climate change is actually believed, we see that the Progress Party is still struggling on this issue. The argumentation is continuous substituting. We want an international climate agreement, says the representative of Solvik-Olsen. This is his job to say, while the populists in their own party continue to run on with irresponsibility and hope of failure in Copenhagen. We want an international climate agreement, emphasises Solvik-Olsen, and I believe that he bases that hope on the climate panel's reports. However, it does not prevent the representative from using e-mail leaks to doubt the work of thousands of researchers. This is not what the Progress Party calls hoarseness. There is a demand for the Progress Party to participate in the same debate as its own climate policy spokesman. In the evening post today, Ketil Solvik-Olsen says that if Erik Solheim had met Erik Solheim in the election campaign today, Erik Solheim would have been disillusioned with today by Erik Solheim. Well, if Ketil Solvik-Olsen today meets its own big group of today, it won't just be harelas – they're actually on different planets, and it's such a big problem for the Progress Party that the Progress Party has to come with the creed every time they're on the pulpit in Stortinget, and say what we're other people are taking as a matter of course: we believe in the thousands of scientists who say that we're bad at climate change. The government's goal of giving every human being on earth the same right and the same restrictions on access to greenhouse gas emissions is not an idealistic ambition – it is an imperative, and it is the only way we can create a sustainable society that both solves our immediate climate challenges and ensures that humanity does not end up in the same crisis again. Because in this way, climate policy is also being redistributed, where the adherents of unlimited free trade and the rich Western countries, as our own, are put on the decisive test: are we willing to take the moral consequences of the climate crisis, are we willing to take the fundamental consequences of the climate crisis, and are we willing to take the practical consequences of the climate crisis? I am proud and happy that the answer for Norway's part is yes, thanks to a small but very important sentence in Soria Moria II, and thanks to a climate effort in this year's state budget, which has never been bigger. This was combined with Norway's commitment to reducing emissions – which is 40 p.m., if we get a good enough deal in place, and not 30 – so that we are well equipped to play a part and lay the foundation for the international climate architecture of the future that will ensure our common future. It's a very important job to do the next few weeks, and I'm very happy that almost everyone on the Storting whole-hearted ends up doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e308	I will begin by giving tribute to the Minister for the Environment and Development, Solheim, for a good account. Then at the same time, I will be honest to say that the Christian People's Party as an opposition party and as a party to the climate agreement had hoped to be included in the work on Norwegian positions in Copenhagen, as the Council invited before the elections – an invitation which unfortunately was forgotten after the elections. But that's how it works. Despite our relatively modest population and uncentral location, Norway has done a lot in preparation for Copenhagen. The Norwegian delegation, with the Environment Minister Erik Solheim and the negotiator Hanne Bjurstrøm, should be commended for this. Norway has received international praise for both our objectives, funding proposals, work on forest conservation from climate reconciliation and CO2 capture and storage. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister for the Environment is clearly in the statement that Norway will work for the continuation of the Kyoto Protocol alongside or preferably integrated into a broader agreement. Norway cannot accept giving up Kyoto until we ensure that we achieve something far better. It has long been clear that Copenhagen will not end up in the process of establishing a new global ambitious and binding climate agreement. The Minister for the Environment made it clear in his statement that he does not believe in a credible agreement in Copenhagen, but that a politically binding agreement and a consensus on a rapid negotiation process are important in order to design a credible international agreement. The Council of State stressed that the mandate for the negotiation process must have a clear objective and a timetable. I appreciate the Council of State – let me say – something surprising, honest and realistic ambitions for Copenhagen. I think it serves the climate issue, although we could probably both wish that the situation was brighter with a view to achieving tangible results. So to that a little bit more critical. The following quote from the Council of State statement yesterday amazes me: ‘Where emissions reductions occur in the world is irrelevant to the atmosphere. This part of the quote is taken from the Council of State's script, but was not made like this. [[...]] To do this, we need a well-functioning global carbon market. Norway is actively working to maintain the market mechanisms we have today, while at the same time developing new market mechanisms.’ It is difficult to understand that this comes from an SV State Council. I asked if SV had purchased Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's rhetoric in this area. Is it really irrelevant for SV if emission reductions come in rich countries, where annual greenhouse gas emissions per year. persons vary from 12 to 25 tonnes or come in poor countries with annual emissions of less than 5 tonnes per year. person? I ask the questions, where is the most to pick up? And who has the greatest responsibility for cutting emissions? It is an important principle to cut emissions where it costs at least, but it is equally important to cut emissions where it is most retrievable. The focus towards developing countries should be to contribute to economic growth without corresponding growth in greenhouse gas emissions. Norway should focus on achieving the necessary emission reductions at home. At this point, the Government lacks credibility, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should remove all reservations relating to our climate goals before Copenhagen. As of today, the target is 40 pst. reduction by 2020 and the carbon neutrality target by 2030 made dependent on the willingness of other countries to commit. The Government has decided that these objectives only apply if they can contribute to an ambitious agreement on climate change where the large emitters assume concrete emission obligations. A question that then comes forward is the objectives that Norway will pursue if it does not become an ambitious agreement. And what really is an ambitious agreement? The Minister for the Environment said yesterday that a comprehensive description of national climate policy was not the subject of the presentation. This is understandable in relation to what has been delivered. Let me conclude with the Left's proposal for a new climate settlement. I expect the Minister for the Environment now to take initiatives to contact the different parties to the climate agreement, because he is responsible for this, to clear up the challenges we face as partners in the climate agreement. I then refer to the Christian People's Party's interpretation of the violations that have occurred in relation to the climate agreement, as documented in Document No. 8:1 for 2009-2010, from the Left, and in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e341	Oscar Wilde once said, "It rests a wicked fate over all good decisions. It is one of the major challenges also in the field of climate change. It is important to succeed in Copenhagen, it is important because Copenhagen is actually our opportunity for decisions not to be taken too late. Signals say it will be a difficult and challenging job. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to get out of Copenhagen with binding agreements, and we wish the Government the best possible agreement. We in the Left also see that the Council of State's statement was thorough. He can lean on a good order through the climate agreement. I have to say that I think it is very nice that he has been allowed by the Prime Minister to meet in Stortinget in this area. Governments have been given a great deal of drag with their agreement, among other things. when he got NOK 3 billion more to combat deforestation through negotiations with the climate comrades. When the Council of State says in the newspaper yesterday that he is being ‘furnished all over the world’, he must be very happy to have been pushed forward in the individual areas. There are two things we are discussing today: we are discussing international climate work, and we are discussing the national follow-up to achieve the 2 degree target. Maybe it's a little silly that we're talking about a 2 degree goal, because it sounds like there's something we're reaching for, while it's really something we're reaching down to. The climate agreement was in many ways the start of such an escalation. Unfortunately, in the left we noticed that there is both sommel and clear breach of the agreement then. It concerns both renewable energy, transition from fossil fuels, energy saving measures and biofuels. We do not see today's lookup in Bergen's Official Journal as very reassuring given the important job to be done in these areas. The council said in the election campaign that he wanted an enhanced climate settlement. I believe that SV's intentions are great and good, but they are not worth much when they are taken down by the Prime Minister as soon as they are expressed. We in the Left promoted this proposal as soon as it was possible when the Stortinget had come together, in the wish that the vision of the Council of State to bring about a reinforced climate settlement before Copenhagen was actually possible to implement. The fact that the Progress Party considers the Left's proposal to be unprofessional, I might say more about the Progress Party than about the Left's efforts in this area. We want to help the Council of States with everything he can get out of help to do the best possible job both nationally and internationally. Our Document No. Eight proposals were meant as a constructive drag help to achieve a better process. The Council of States is talking about Climate Change 2020, and I just have to say from the Left that we have great expectations of that report when it comes, and that it wants to set as clear a goal as possible. Back to the fact that the Council of State over two pages of yesterday's BT said he was 'held all over the world', but which expressed that when he crossed the border at Svinesund, it is 'just a bitch to get'. I have to say that I am a little uncertain about whether it is then government colleagues, environmental organisations or the opposition he believes that it is just a bad idea to get away from. At least we in the Left want to play a constructive role, where we want to make the best possible ideas and the best possible backing to the Swedish government, in order to achieve the important goals in Copenhagen. I hope that we can contribute constructively, and that it is possible for the Council of State, the seas if the Prime Minister does not think it is important to meet the partners of the agreement, to be able to downgrade to meet those who actually make him ‘hidden all over the world’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e360	It must be possible on the basis of what we have heard now, to state that the Government has strong – not to say massive – support in the Grand Duchy for what we are going to join in Copenhagen. I have heard some good and some bad suggestions about what should be done in Norwegian climate policy with regard to action in Norway, but I have not heard any suggestions as to what else we should do in Copenhagen to speed up international climate negotiations. I have heard a lot of support for what has been submitted, and it is good. I want to address one of the things that have been most prominent in the debate until now, and that is that I allegedly talk down the expectations of the Copenhagen climate summit. It has been referred to by some in the opposition, and also by the media. It's going to be wrong. What I'm doing is giving a completely realistic description of what it's possible to achieve in Copenhagen, and what it's not possible to achieve in Copenhagen. Solvik-Olsen tried to say that I said different things now and in the election campaign. It's completely wrong. But it's probably true that I'm saying a little different now compared to what I did when I was 20 years old and had faith in socialism as the ultimate solution to all mankind's problems. It is clear that if you have that entrance to Copenhagen, that this is going to create socialism or the final environmental society where all the problems are solved, we need to talk down on expectations. It's not going to happen. On the other hand, if one considers this as the most important process of negotiation to now in human history, where it is possible to take a significant step forward so as to take new steps afterwards, Copenhagen can be a success. I don't think that's talking down expectations, that's creating the right expectations for Copenhagen. We are now in the situation that decent leaders in all major and important nations want a binding agreement in Copenhagen, we have an international system better than at any other time in human history to put things into practice, and we have an opportunity in Copenhagen to take a very important step. We should view this as positive, but of course it should not prevent us from taking new steps forward. We are likely to do much more in Copenhagen at a single meeting than what, for example. have been achieved at any individual meeting in the history of disarmament or in the history of the international trade regime, or in any of the other parallel negotiation processes that people have conducted. I am pleased that we agree on the starting point that there is not one action at all in Copenhagen that is hindered by Norway. In all of this, Norway is a driving force to go further and further, but we're not the United States or China, we can't dictate the world. We can use that power as a small but active and also rich and high-tech country, a country with good dealers, to drive the processes forward, but we cannot dictate them. We're an important actor, but we're a small and not the most important actor. Solvik-Olsen's posts I perceived, in spite of little sewing here and there, as it always is, and with some good and bad points of things the government does – good and bad – as a positive step in the right direction. I just want to be happy to consolidate the Progress Party on that position. But I want to address one important point: he says that we don't have as much pain as possible. I cannot agree more – and be assured that when we come to Climate Change 2020, my clear position is that we should have the best possible climate policy with the least possible pain. The reason for that is that we get the most. There is no purpose to plague anyone, it is a purpose to achieve a maximum reduction in Norwegian and international climate emissions, so that we bring the globe forward. Then I believe that Norway should be self-critical, but not self-peaching. We do a lot, we do more than most other nations, but that doesn't mean we don't have to be critical of what we do. And we haven't done enough at home. We're going to look for new opportunities for initiatives internationally. But we don't have any reason to do any self-pitching, it has no resonance international. Erling Sande addressed the need to link agriculture and food security internationally with climate. It's a very important perspective. We are now working with Yara to open corridors for more fertilizers and a green revolution in Mozambique and Tanzania, we are working with Kofi Annan for the same tasks, and the connection of climate and food security is one of the great things we are going to be working on in the future. Finally, about the climate agreement: we would very much like to meet the climate partners. Nor will we exclude dialogue with the Progress Party in the future. The Prime Minister has taken the initiative in talks immediately over the New Year, and of course we will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e379	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e383	After hearing the statements of the Council of State, it could be close to asking if he no longer believes in socialism. But I'm going to be a little more specific about what the government itself has promised, namely that if one can help to get an agreement in place, Norway will increase its ambitions on cuts to 40 pst. The question is simply what success criterion has been used by the Government to increase its ambition level from 30 pst. to 40 pst.? In particular, this is interesting given what I think is a ‘downscale’ of ambitions. In the case of expectations of reaching an agreement, where the level of ambition lies, or what is the success criterion for the actual raising of the level of ambition to 40 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e390	Let me first assure Solvik-Olsen that I believe in socialism. But I believe in socialism as an ethical norm and as a process – and not as a final state of delight, a kind of human version of paradise. And it is a parallel to this, because climate negotiations are not a process that will finally come to an end in Copenhagen. Copenhagen is going to be a very important station on the road, but the process is going to last for many decades – until the problem is finally solved. On the issue of 40 pst, we have said that we are willing to go up to 40 pst, if it can help to get a binding agreement of large dimensions for solving the climate problem. It will necessarily be an agreement where the main actors – Norway is an important player, but we are not among the most important – China, India, the United States and the main EU countries, commit to taking significant steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e397	It could be tempting to say that the Council of State is concerned with the process, and in the right we are concerned with results – but I shouldn't do that. The climate agreement commits Norway to cut its national emissions by 30 pst. by 2020, two thirds of which are to be taken nationally. When the Council of State has signaled that he wants to raise the level of ambition to 40 p.m., does that still mean that two thirds of these cuts are to be taken nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e404	Firstly, to continue the debate on what is a little outside: process and results are very closely linked. The prerequisite for achieving results is a good process, which includes the main actors. On the concrete question, it's one of the issues we need to discuss with Stortinget. In the climate agreement we have said that it should be taken 30 pst. by 2020, based on 1990 levels. About two thirds are to be taken domestically. This is where climate change comes in, to show how we can achieve this goal. It sounds little, but it will turn out to be a difficult goal, given the significant changes we need in oil, in industry, etc. How the remaining 10 pst. – at the top of this – to be taken, we need to have a dialogue with Stortinget about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e411	The representative Solvik-Olsen asked about the success criteria for a 40 p.m. target. Soria Moria II states that ‘Norway’s climate targets will be strengthened to correspond to 40 per cent cut in emissions by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, if this can contribute to consensus’. Then the Council of State answers that the important actors must be involved, and they must go ‘essential steps’ in the right direction. I understand that that's the Council of State's answer, but at the same time, it probably isn't good enough for the National Assembly, because we're going to be involved in politics for next year. I have to ask the Council of State to be a little more specific about what he is doing in the right direction, so that we can jointly design and front the policy that Norway will be governed after the following year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e418	I have to be honest and direct here: I don't want to be more concrete at this point than what I've been to now. This is because these are actually negotiations – we are entering into negotiations with other nations. I don't think Norway always best affects such negotiations by starting with absolute defined positions that we saw just say flags – and then say: Hello, comrades, follow us! It's very often that there's a gi-and-take in negotiations that's what brings us forward. At some points it's a good idea to say, "This is exactly what we're doing, please follow us!" The rainforest has been such an example, but there are also many situations in negotiations where you get further by giving and taking – and moving things forward in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e425	Biofuels were an important part of the climate agreement. In the summer, the State Council opened Uniol in Fredrikstad, about at the same time as the Government had begun its treatment of the State budget for 2010. Then the Council of State knew that there was actually an outright bomb in the budget – he was aware that a trading order in the climate agreement was not going to be followed up. My question is, what did the council think when he stood there, and what does he think about this now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e432	Here I want to be so rude and say that a question about starting a new round is now about details and fictional facsimiles to score Norwegian domestic political points two days before the Copenhagen Conference starts – a conference about the big picture of how to save the world – I don't want to answer. We will have ample opportunity to answer that kind of question. The Prime Minister and others have responded for three consecutive weeks. Let us focus on how to get the Norwegian population involved in the necessary measures in Copenhagen and on how Norway in Copenhagen will affect the world. That's what we're dealing with right now, and that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e439	I now get the feeling that it is actually Prime Minister Stoltenberg's words that come out here – and no longer SV's very harsh approach to climate policy. It's all right, but from a point of view of progress, I think Stoltenberg has a better principle approach to this than what SV has. When you hear the approximate statements, both in the post and not least in the replies, about cost efficiency, global utility and quota trading as a base wall – despite SV being the only party that voted against the trading principle when it was discussed in Kyoto – and that we should not be self-tapping, it is very good. What I would like to go over to is whether you can get the proud mountain expression on the climate quota law in the future, and go away from the self-absorbation we have driven in relation to new industries, that it should not get quotas similar in the EU, so that we can give a fundamental answer: yes, in the future, Norwegian industry should be treated in the same way as the EU's – not stricter, not lighter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e448	I think there has to be a very intense effort to get a razor blade between the Prime Minister and me on the issue of climate quota law. This is the very basic plan of the international climate regime. That's the base, the base wall, or whatever we had to call it. An international tax system could be envisaged instead, but that debate is over because the EU and the United States choose this model. That doesn't mean that it solves all of the problems. Above all, the quota system does not solve the fundamental problem: getting enough ‘drive’ for all the new technology we need, which also Solvik-Olsen was involved, because technology is at the forefront of technological development — often expensive measures — while the quota system will contribute to the cheapest measures first. That is why we need to have both that and a number of measures to bring about more and faster technological development. We would like to call for cooperation with the Progress Party on this, but here the Prime Minister and I agree that it is possible to become.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e453	That was comforting. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e459	I would also like to begin my speech by thanking the Council of State for a good presentation and for the opportunity to have this important debate in Stortinget. The Barcelona meeting earlier this fall was actually a confirmation of what we all have known for a while: we do not get into port, we do not get a ratification legally binding agreement in Copenhagen. It is clear that it is a defeat for world leaders, but at the same time I would say that there is reason to be optimistic. The world is somewhere else now than it was just a few years ago. The United States is not going to get its climate law through the Senate before the Copenhagen climate summit, but they have a climate law on the way – they have learned from the Kyoto process. China has played a completely different role from what they have had in these negotiations so far – a responsible role – they recognise that there is a problem and they will help solve it. We have developing countries that are now presenting binding plans, they are willing to take on commitments as long as we pay. The fundamental distrust between countries and developing countries, which has been a major barrier in these negotiations for many years, now looks like it should be possible to overcome. Norway’s contribution, e.g. through the huge rainforest bet we make — early money on the table — has been important. The funding mechanism we have proposed has been important. It is clear that many of these discussions will focus on how we get money on the table – EUR 100 billion a year, the EU says that we need – in order for the developing countries to be able to adapt and do the cuts that are needed. But there's a debate as important as this that's about who's going to decide about this money. There's a lot of power in managing so much money. It is important that we are clear that this is not aid. We're going to solve our particular problem through what we're going to do in the years to come, and it's not going to be at the expense of normal, traditional assistance. The great deal of this discussion is that it does not have to be the traditional donor-receiver-country pattern on which it is based and which becomes the pattern of how it is to be done. Of course, we need to verify that there are actual measures that are being implemented and that we avoid problems such as corruption. However, the demands made by some countries to use institutions where there is equality of voice, which are fundamental democratic, and where there is no requirement for the kind of economic policy to be pursued in countries receiving money are very comprehensible. Success requires legitimacy from both sides, and the concern expressed by many countries that traditional institutions primarily promote the interests of Western countries must be taken seriously. This does not mean that traditional institutions can never be used, but that means that we need more alternatives, and that those countries that are going to receive a lot of money have an influence on the approach to which structures are to be used. Although Copenhagen is not going to be the end of the negotiations on a new protocol, there has been a huge global mobilization ahead of this meeting. It's a lot of pressure, and there's clear expectations about a further race. It is a real willingness to negotiate with the major parties. It is a concern of many that after the Copenhagen meeting we have to be able to keep the pressure up. We're going to have to avoid moving into an eternal dance like this. the so-called WTO round of developments took place, it took place for years. It's important now that we don't let the air go out of the balloon, that we don't push shadow boxing towards the meeting in Mexico next year, because it's too long, and we have a bad time. Norway takes and must continue to take a great deal of responsibility for driving this process forward and keeping up the pressure after the Copenhagen meeting. In the end, large parts of the Norwegian election campaign were about to get Prime Minister candidate Siv Jensen to clarify whether she was going to follow up the Norwegian positions that had been put in the Copenhagen meeting, if she became Prime Minister. Fortunately, it did not become a reality, but the Progress Party is the country's second largest party – they will be present in Copenhagen – and we are still not there to know where they stand. Arne Sortevik and his articles on hope of failure in Copenhagen have already been referred to. It was mildly alarming, also to come from that party, but I ask again, although this is beginning to approach the boring: does the Progress Party support the Norwegian positions that the Minister for the Environment has explained? The articles of Ketil Solvik-Olsen were much more nuanced than, for example, his colleague, Mr Sortevik, is in these questions, but it did not bring us any closer to a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e482	So far has this debate shown that there is a great deal of consensus around Norwegian positions. There is a great deal of agreement that there is a strong desire in broad political Norway that the Copenhagen meeting should produce results. I think it's important, even if we don't get a ratifiable agreement or all systems in place, that we get a timeline where the end station must be clear and visible, because when we get into port with an agreement that can be used, and that includes most countries in the world, with different goals, but with the same common goal: that we should be able to last the 2 degree goal. It's a formidable task. I record that the ambitions of the Council of State have been downgraded in what was said yesterday, and that I have also seen in the media. That, of course, is realistic. I just want to warn you that if you take your ambitions too far down, it also means that the pressure to find solutions can be too bad. When very many people have ambitions for the Copenhagen meeting, it can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. That's why it's important to have a little high ambition and some clear goals when such a meeting starts. So one thing is what institutions, systems, and obligations are dealing with. The second question is, are we able to have the means to reach the 2-degree target? I'm actually quite concerned that we haven't gotten far enough. No matter how many times I and many other politicians, not least from the Government, have talked about the economy as a tool and about technology optimization that is going to happen, it is nevertheless far ahead in many areas that we get available technology that can be implemented at a cost that enables us to achieve the 2 degree goal. This is one of the things that I think we also need to be clearer and clearer in the national debate. We're very good at goals, we're worse at measures. We're too bad to bring environmental technology forward. We are too little predictable in what policy we have. It is dangerous that for every single debate we now take on different instruments, there are always people who can bring forward an action that is better in theory, but which may not be close to being realized. In many of these debates, the best thing is to become the enemy of good. It is sometimes forgotten that it is not only economic efficiency that is important – governance efficiency is also important. In many models and discussions we have, it's so that there can always be another hope, another opportunity, but it's not realistic to get it into place. Therefore, it is important that we now go further into the depths of how we are going to find solutions in Norway in a predictable way. One of the challenges is that the carbon price is simply not high enough. The carbon price and trading systems are good on paper, but before the carbon price is higher, there is not enough new technology in the world. It is not breaking in Europe. Therefore, this will not produce results quickly enough. This, of course, has to do with the development of the entire system of carbon and emissions trading and the inward border in terms of pricing in Europe in the future. There is once again doubt that European solutions are the most important means of achieving this, and that several countries are involved. It is also the case that, in the follow-up to the climate agreement, we need to set some clear objectives and regulations in other areas, with a timeline that is visible, so that we also break forward with new technology. That's why the Right has, among other things, called for more money to be spent in the years ahead on research and development, but also on pilots and others in the field of environmental technology. We have to do that if we're going to break out completely new technologies. It's not just about energy and renewables, it's just as important to do it on all the other sides where we consume energy and generate emissions. That is why it is often that too much of this debate is just about energy and not about energy savings, and about how we get completely new material technologies, which means that we need to use less energy, without just energy use. These challenges are ahead of us. Although the Council of State does not want to answer the question of biodiesel – I did not intend to say one word about biodiesel in this debate – I would like to say that the worst thing about biodiesel was just that no one can believe in the tools we agree on anymore, because there is no predictability with this government. I've met so many people in business now who say they don't dare bet, until they know the framework conditions too much longer than one budgetary procedure at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e497	The climate issue has created a lot of debate here in the last two to three years. It reflects a great commitment and concern for the great seriousness we're facing. Prior to the Copenhagen meeting, we need to focus our attention on the big picture: that climate problems are one hundred percent global. It would be unforgivable not to have a full focus on what can be the fastest and most effective to get the large emissions down no matter where on the globe they are happening. It is of little interest to hear the criticism of the biodiesel campaign by the Advance Party to the Government while the party still does not seem to recognise that climate change is man-made. The representatives of the Party send out highly contradictory signals on the expectations to be held at the Copenhagen Summit. The progress party claims that they are placed on the sideline. That's where they put themselves! The red-green government has always had a global approach to climate change: when, in 2007, Norway’s ambitious climate targets were launched, when, on the Norwegian side, it has been a driving force for the use of rainforest protection as a climate action, when it has been a driving force for energy development in Mongstad, and when, with the Prime Minister at the head, it has actively pursued diplomatic work, which can guarantee us an offensive agreement in Copenhagen, not least in terms of finding funding mechanisms to ensure that we can also get developing countries with it. Speaking of representatives of Solberg's posts, one of these is precisely the most central: climate cuts will cost. The combination of a global ceiling on global emissions and an allowance trading system will be crucial for efficient and rapid emission cuts, with strong incentives for technology development and cutting where the cuts can get the fastest. Cut now, as we know, is far more important than cut far into the future. Although with our government there has been a long-term investment in maritime transport, rail, Enova, energy saving, research, etc., there is no doubt that Norway's contribution to climate action in poorer countries will have the fastest and the most impact. Our contribution to the conservation of rainforests is important in this way. We are already well running in Brazil, and for approx. a month ago, the Minister for the Environment signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the President of Guyana on the protection of large rainforest areas there. We can also contribute in other ways, including: the Brazilian Government is very concerned about accessing Norwegian farming technology, because they want to convert the activity in Amazon into employment that does not involve the peak of rainforest. Here, too, we should set up. Of course, it is also necessary to mention the cooperation on carbon capture and storage established during the Prime Minister’s visit to South Africa last year. This is a cooperation focusing on the South African energy company Sasol's plant outside Johannesburg. It is an installation producing synthetic fuels. It's the largest in the world, and there's the CO2 emissions 60 million tons per year. It shows the potential we have for transferring technology to other countries in relation to this type of emission sources. Those who will meet in Copenhagen in a few days' time have a huge task ahead of them in setting up an offensive agreement that supports below the two-degree target and emissions cut as monks. It is important to reach an agreement to put in place good funding mechanisms for climate action in the world’s poor countries. Without this, we can forget to bring the major developing countries into commitments for the future. In this work, Norway is a constructive contributor and a strong driver, and I hope that we will join in our model of funding, where money for climate action in poor countries goes directly from the polluter and that it does not depend so much on appropriations from annually politically vulnerable budgetary processes in rich countries. I am pleased that, with the exception of the Progress Party, there is a broad consensus on the major lines of climate policy, including the positions ahead of Copenhagen. I also expect that we can get together to wish our negotiators good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e521	Like other speakers here, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good briefing on good positions taken by Norway in Copenhagen. As a small country with CO2 emissions at the global peak measured per capita, we have every reason to work to ensure the success of the Copenhagen meeting and to have a binding international agreement on emission reductions. Our high emissions are linked to industrial activities that have an enormous impact on jobs and local environments throughout the country. Without an international regulatory framework at the bottom, we can see that Norwegian measures for emission reductions result in high-emission industries simply shifting their activities from Norway to countries without restrictions, so-called carbon leakage. The result can be higher emissions elsewhere on the globe, and as we all know, no matter where we get the emissions in the world – the effects are global. I come from a state where power-processing industries are of great importance for jobs and housing. The Norwegian power-processing industry has very low emissions compared to the corresponding industry elsewhere in the world. It is due to strict regulatory requirements and high energy prices, but companies are still competitive. If these companies move their production from Norway to other countries, emissions per tonnes of metal produced are most likely to be higher than today. In Hordaland we also have a large and important supplier industry for the oil and gas industry. We know that oil and gas activities are a major source of CO2 in Norway, and we know that we need to find solutions to deal with these emissions. Today, we are building installations for the capture and storage of CO2 in Mongstad, a facility that will ensure that Norway and Hordaland will lie in the world's technological development in this field. Measures for CO2 reductions in oil and gas development are costly, but an internationally binding carbon pricing system could generate profitability in technology development and the implementation of emission reduction solutions. When the leading spokesman of the Progress Party in Hordaland, Arne Sortevik, in press releases, says that he is going and hoping for failure in Copenhagen, he really hopes for a result that will endanger thousands of jobs in our common home country of Hordaland. A failure in Copenhagen will not mean that we can drop measures against CO2 emissions. This would mean that the sharing of costs and burdens would be random and distorted. This means that the temperature rises are going to be larger than the world tolerates, and that in the long term, the measures we have to take, with both emission reduction and climate adaptation, will be enormously larger. That is the ugly reality. The spokesman of the party in this Chamber today, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, has a different approach than his party trap Sortevik. It is obvious that there is a deep division in the Progress Party on these issues. Solvik-Olsen believes that we must be able to debate science. We need more knowledge on this issue," says the Progress Party. In the case of Lofoten, on the other hand, there is obviously no need for more knowledge – there we just have to go. It's a debate technique – according to my concepts – where you use arguments alternately about each other without any consistency. But I don't think it bothers the Progress Party that there is no consistency in their party's climate policy, because they want to ride two horses on this issue. They want to be the spokespersons of the climate scientists, while at the same time wanting to hold back – at least somewhat – with the broad political Norway on this issue, also because standing completely outside will not be considered a good thing for the party. On the other hand, I have very little to say about the concern and commitment to the climate. I hear proposals for climate change mitigation are being presented, but I wonder what is the driving force behind these proposals. Is it a real recognition that climate change is man-made, that the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is correct, and that action against global warming is absolutely necessary to ensure future life? Otherwise, I would like to commend the climate settlement partners for their constructive support for the government's negotiating line in Copenhagen. It gives our government strength in Copenhagen when we present our ambitious policy and our ambitious goals in terms of an agreement. Then we all look forward to fresh debates on how to follow up our obligations at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e555	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e558	It was a good, informative and sober, but at the same time offensive distribution the council gave yesterday. The debate in this Chamber shows that it is a cross-political, far-reaching, wide-ranging debate on the strategy chosen by the Government over the Copenhagen meeting. Now I don't know if it was in the manuscript of the Council of State, but at least he was in some historical natural disasters. He mentions, among others: survival in Noah’s ark. And to stick to the Bible, it stands there as a prophecy that God will “bring to ruin those ruining the earth.” Now we finally have hope that we haven't gotten there yet. But it goes without saying that if human destruction destroys the world, they also destroy themselves. I'm experiencing in the situation that we're in now, that there are two clear moves. The only thing is that the situation is, in fact, still more and more serious. It says the United Nations Climate Panel, says other researchers, cf. posting in the Evening Post today. In fact, it seems that it's increasingly harder to stay below the two-degree increase in temperature that's the target. The second trend — and it actually creates a little optimism — is that the recognition of exactly this is becoming more and more around the world and thus leads to a greater commitment and willingness to action. One also sees here in this Chamber today that the rhetoric of the Progress Party has changed until the degrees have changed, at least if one belongs to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen. So we're going to want to welcome the Progress Party, if anything, after. All of us are now some of us who need an international agreement, where the rich countries, in the countries, and the developing countries must jointly reach an agreement on cuts, and where in the countries – the rich countries – they must contribute financially to the developing countries. The discussion is about what kind of role Norway should have in this, what we're going to do. I have, at least until now, experienced a two-part opposition: the Progress Party, which in many ways has said that we want too much and are too ambitious, especially domestic, and the Christian People's Party, Left and Right, who may have claimed the opposite. That's essentially what we've heard from the opposition, that it's too small or too much, and they're well in many ways the destiny of a government to get criticism anyway. I almost get to say like Peer Gynt at Gålå – on a doom: «If I sleep el’ become sleigh, equally full I shall get dizzy. ‘... Norway is a small country. We are at the same time part of the rich world, so we must contribute financially both internationally and internally. I would like to say that I am satisfied with the strategy that has been drawn up, including specific areas in which Norway can be involved and make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e578	I want to start by being a little positive in terms of SV's policy, that they are now in favour of trading CO2 allowances, which they opposed a few years ago. I would then like to comment further on the comments of the representative Serrigstad Valen on the environmental policy of the Progress Party. If you do not believe that all that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change comes out with is the absolute truth, then in the eyes of SV, you are an environmental host. That's actually what it takes to qualify the party to join a climate settlement – it's unheard of! We in the Progress Party are critical for the most part, including the United Nations Climate Panel. We know that there are many scientists asking the question of whether the United Nations Climate Panel has the only truth. The Progress Party has made many proposals for action against climate change. We know that between 3 and 5 pst. CO2 emissions are man-made, so we recognize that they can have an impact on the climate. But we have made proposals that have not been taken very seriously. Recently, an e-mail leak has been recorded at a university in the United Kingdom. It doesn't matter from time to time, but it's serious when the university itself enters and investigates whether this has had an impact on what has been said by scientists. We don't know, but it has to be legitimate to point that out. Norwegian oil and gas production by 2030 is good environmental policy. So does IEA. The government has many environmental objectives. It wants to do a lot. The intentions are clearly good, but the results up to this time are poor. There have been very many billions spent on gas capture and lunar landings without having landed there. The Progress Party is concerned that Norwegian industry should receive the same environmental quotas and charges as other countries, and in particular countries in the EU. It doesn't seem to have any special significance for SV. At least that has been the case until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e599	It is an important and interesting debate that we have here today as a heating before the meeting in Copenhagen. The biggest fight we're facing is the climate fight, and I think most people agree on it. But then the question is which way to go. Now it's time for everyone to sit down and agree to get from talk to action. I believe that we must succeed in acting together and in solidarity with each other. We need binding international agreements, and I believe that joint responsibility can be taken. There's only one thing that matters: you have to agree. If you don't agree, the road to failure isn't long. We must act in such a way that both we and our grandchildren can live safely in a sustainable interaction between people and nature. If we are to succeed, it requires major changes, new technologies, knowledge transfer and more efficient financing mechanisms. The radical changes must be based on solidarity and collective responsibility for the maintenance and strengthening of our most important common good: the very basis of global life. Climate change is increasingly marked on the body — in northern areas, along the rivers of Asia, etc. Global climate change will affect key societal and development issues, such as food security, water supply, clean energy access and, above all, poverty reduction. When 190 countries with very different assumptions about a very short period of time meet in Copenhagen to agree on a common objective and a fair distribution – and not least in terms of costs – this must be a non-discriminatory meeting in terms of complexity. I agree with the representative Per Rune Henriksen that we must also deal with the industrial companies that we have, so that they do not flag out. So it's important to find good and tidy agreements. Let's hope that at the meeting in Copenhagen, which will be historic, we can take some important steps forward, not least for the benefit of Mother Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e618	I have some comments on some of the claims and statements that have come. SV says that it is not self-pipping that is the point of climate policy. I'm very happy to hear that. One should no longer go back to a debate in the NRC in May 2009, where the Council of State said that people do not have enough anxiety about the climate issue. When Helen Bjørnøy was the Minister of Environmental Protection, she said: Put on more, shower less, we're not going to make it possible for the industry to establish new emission points in Norway. On this very point, we have now heard the Workers' Party argue that we must secure the industry. So the government's policy has been the opposite; we're not going to have new emissions. That means the industry can't get in here. But you see an SV in motion. Quota trade is now a base wall, it wasn't ten years ago. Action must be taken where they make maximum use – when the Progress Party said that, we were irresponsible. I hope that criterion is taken into account. We're not going to have any strange restrictions on shipping – very good. Let me hope that it will also apply to industry, that it will be a global approach and not a national approach. And when one says that one would like to increase from 30 to 40 pst. is no longer a curious SV requirement for two-thirds to be done in Norway, one in which case it will be discussed. It's an SV in motion, and I'm glad. We also see that at the SV national meeting in 2007, there was a whole debate on Norwegian action — Norwegian action, two thirds in Norway — while the Labour Party approach was that one has to do the cuts where one gets the most global benefit from them. Everyone knows what Gro Harlem Brundtland said, she did not understand the Norwegian debate, which was so suspended in how much of this would be done in Norway, instead of looking at how much one can do globally. Now the Minister for the Environment – and I commend him for it – says that he and Stoltenberg are like peas in the instrument case. Then I think it's natural that, once he has signed up for a new post, he will respond to what we can expect with regard to the climate quota law in the future. Is there equal treatment in the EU, or should Norway continue to have special nordic restrictions which would impose higher costs on Norwegian business than in the EU? The working party and SV have also spent a lot of time on the Progress Party. This is going to be a challenge and a little heart attack from me, as one of the few from the last period that continued in the committee: there's little collective memory, when there's so many new ones going up and taking the same, old attacks, that's settled in the last period, and then we get them back. I recommend these representatives to read document No. 8:97 for 2006-2007. All the questions will be answered there. There is an overall policy behind what the Progress Party stands for. The Progress Party has put forward these proposals. This means that they have been approved by an overall group meeting of the Progress Party Group. So to Sortevik: Yes, the representative Sortevik wrote an article where he wanted a collapse. The background for this was fear of even more self-pipping in the transport sector. Based on the signals now coming, the Progress Party is in favour of what the Government is working on, because you've gone away from a lot of that self-pitching. Many of the signals received in the climate communication, in the climate quota law, etc., are no longer at stake, for now it is Stoltenberg’s national meeting speech that is valid again. And that's good. The working party has taken control. SV has been parked. Then I enjoy myself a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e633	It is clear that the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen needs to shoot more at parties other than he has to talk about the policy of the Progress Party, and the fact that the Progress Party wants to doubt that the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Environment agree on the climate issue is a symptom that Solvik-Olsen has far more problems in creating consensus in its own party. But leave it. There are many of us who have read the book "The Earth Around 80 Days" and followed Phileas Fogg and his butler Passepartout's attempt to reach the earth in 80 days. Today we can reach the earth in a couple of–three days on regular scheduled flights. The world has definitely become much smaller in just over 100 years. Therefore, it is also easy to engage in an international climate agreement, a matter that is very important to our entire planet. So last night they went on torches in Kristiansand to get together to get a good climate agreement in Copenhagen. Climate challenges are an example of the interrelationship between domestic and foreign policies, and sometimes, in fact, are also two aspects of the same issue. If the world is to succeed, it must be more focused on technology. It's the new technologies that are the answer. In Norway, we have smart heads and important high-tech environments. Many believe that being high-tech is typically Norwegian. We must ensure that we invest in this in the future. Through research, general framework conditions and targeted actions, we create profitable businesses and jobs for the future. I want to use the oil and gas industry, of all things, as an example of what new technology leads to. Increasingly tougher environmental requirements and more difficult access to oil and gas resources have enabled us to develop more energy-efficient technologies. At the same time, we also know that the person who generates an energy-efficient car engine that does not use oil as a source of energy will have a product that the whole world will demand. The climate agreement in Copenhagen must have its contents. Financial mechanisms that ensure money for climate action in the poor world may be the most important thing to put in place. Securing money based on the polluter-pays principles, but also without the money having to be granted year after year via the state budget, I believe that I am tricked. We've seen a lot of times before, not least in development and aid issues, that governments and state heads promise money that never comes. That is why I think it is very positive both the proposal that Norway has made that a share of the allowances be auctioned off internationally and go to climate action in poor countries, and that this could possibly be combined with Mexico's proposal on national fund payments. This is a very important issue in climate negotiations, because stable funding needs to be in place to succeed in the fight against climate problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e645	A little bit about the concept of self-pipping, which got a slightly more dominant place in the debate than what I had imagined. That means that the Progress Party has been managed a little bit of the premises for this discussion as well. I think that any measure that leads to conversion or some kind of change structurally, socially or technically in Norway will be referred to by the Progress Party as self-pipping. It is incredibly visionless by a party that mentions itself as the ‘Fremskrit party, the founders’ party, the innovation party’, and constantly from this pulpit the solution to the climate crisis and jobs presents as eternal contradictions. Once again, the Progress Party speaks with two tongues. They boast of all the suggestions they themselves have made, while they appeal to horror rhetoric. Adapting climate change and trying to prevent it in Norway is to whip ourselves unnecessarily, as if Norway is the only small country in the world that can continue our way of life completely unchanged in future, regardless of climate change. The progress party is free enough to remind SV of what SV meant twelve years ago etc. In this regard, I would like to quote the FrP himself, Carl I. Hagen, from his 2007 autobiography, under the heading ‘Gøyal climate change contest’ on page 273: ‘In the 1989 election campaign, the environment and climate became an important issue for the first time. SV ran a relatively one-sided horror propaganda on these two issues, and several other parties were torn in. [[...]] Doomsday prophets appeared everywhere and predicted a gloomy development. For us who had also read some reports and knew how uncertain all the climate claims were, this was not a big deal. [[...]] Having this position in relation to the environment and climate is becoming increasingly difficult in our country, with our one-sided and hysterical press." This is what the Progress Party meant twelve years ago, four years ago and, for all I know, today. The Party of Progress should settle itself before attacking other parties. Unfortunately, in 1989 it was the SV that was right, and the Progress Party that was wrong. So Ketil Solvik-Olsen would like to try to explain that there is still large-scale double communication on the part of the Progress Party, that this is a campaign against the party or something like that. On the contrary, it is very important that the realities of climate policy in Norway are fully reflected. That's why I think it's a little uncomfortable when the representative Solvik-Olsen without, as far as I know, being able to cover it, for example. claims that there is an alert in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that is behind the e-mail leaks mentioned by the representative in his statement. The party of progress continues to use, although they recognise the climate problems in this room too, every opportunity to sow doubt and uncertainty, and seeks new knowledge only when the knowledge that already exists does not fit them themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e661	Torstein Rudihagen quoted Scripture, and one of the clearest things in Scripture is that Our Lord greatly delights in sinners who repent. It gives much greater joy than those who have had a constant course. That is why we must all rejoice over the steady approach of the Progress Party to new positions. Then we'd rather give forgiveness that it's only been a few years since it was thought that George Bush should get the peace prize, or that with climate something SV had invented to win votes. Let's just forget it and look at the current Progress Party and enjoy that Solvik-Olsen might be able to consolidate the party on a new and much better course for Norway. I want to get hold of Erna Solberg's posts, because there were important things that we should all think about further. She drew out the need for a timeline. It's becoming very important. Copenhagen must not only implement an important comprehensive agreement, but it must also contain obligations on how it will become a national legal entity in 2010, and Copenhagen should draw up how to proceed in order to achieve the 2 °C target, which is not feasible in Copenhagen as it stands. For example, it is added. up to a large “Rio-plus-20” conference in Brazil in 2012. There may be one point where the theme of the green economy will be a focus, but it may also be others. She also drew up the need to discuss how we can move on to environmental technologies. As I have said in Stortinget and many other times, environmental technologies are and become the very most basic answer to climate noise. We cannot cope with climate change without a technological revolution. I would like to invite dialogue with the Right on how we can better manage the market, for the reason that Solvik-Olsen is right in that, that Norway is a more low-carbon society in some areas than others, we have better technology, is that we have had better public governance with the market in Norway than we have had in other countries, and we should discuss how we get the right governance over time, so that we can get better environmental technology. We should also discuss how public and private can cooperate on pilot projects. It is not always easy to choose which technologies have future opportunities in them, but we need to find broad, comprehensive schemes, so that we can get the new technology moving faster. I think Erna Solberg's posts were constructive, so let's work on it. Finally, I would say that we all have a challenge given that a quarter of the people don't believe in climate change. This makes it a seventh and ultimately difficult to pursue a fast enough policy in this area in Norway. We have to do that by getting more clear to people that it's not the temperature in itself that's the problem, we would all, apart from ski enthusiasts, have rejoiced that there were four degrees warmer out in Oslo's streets today. But it is the significance of temperature changes for everything else that is dangerous: major health problems, several natural disasters, more extensive droughts. That's what we have to come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e672	I'm glad we have this debate, and I'm very happy that we got the presentation the way we did. This debate has shown that there is a broad uprising about what is the Government's positions – from the Progress Party to the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Council of State has also explained why, on the part of the Norwegian Government, it seems desirable to have some slack, so that we have a starting point for negotiations. I don't think anyone is doubting that we're going to end up taking 40 pst. Finally, reductions, because there will be an agreement on climate change. It must do so at some point, at least if we are to be able to do something about the dangerous climate change. I think so, too. As Erik Solheim said, all the leading countries have decent leaders, and that means that at some point we have to get together to agree on what needs to be done. But let me grab a few moments that have been up in the debate, and as I think it is right to discuss it a little. One was that both the Right Party and the Advance Party talked about cutting climate emissions, that we should not move them out. But there I believe that the representative Snorre Serrigstad Valen had the right approach, namely, that moving out climate emissions is actually an important point, because today we consumers are releasing more than twice as much as it is necessary to reduce, while a country like India has much lower emissions. What's an important point, and that hasn't been up in the debate, because we take it for granted, is that historically, creating energy has been the prerequisite for growth and prosperity. Providing growth and prosperity in a good number of developing countries is, in fact, an important point, and in order to achieve that, they need to be able to use more energy. 80 pst. of the energy that comes today from fossil sources. We have to cut the fossil sources – we have to do that all over the world – and find other solutions. But until we are able to do so in large measure, we must ensure that developing countries have the opportunity to develop, and then they must have the opportunity to release more. So we have to move out climate emissions. But the point is of course: can we do this without shutting down the Norwegian industry? The answer is: Yes, of course! But then we have to do a bigger cut in other sectors. In that case, we need to make greater cuts in the oil and energy sector – the extraction of oil. We need to increase emissions reductions in the transport sector. The problem is that neither the Right nor the Advance Party policies take the big cuts in other sectors that make it possible to take care of industry in the way we want. It's just to look at Oslo, where you're going to build a heavy highway west to Asker and Bærum. In addition, I don't think we can just do the cheapest measures first. We have to do everything we can, for the time being, is so scarce, and the road is so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e690	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and thus gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e693	To Snorre Serrigstad Valen's reading from Carl I. Hagen's book: This is nothing new. The Council of State has been debating with those signed in News of the Day 18 – even several times this year – about hysteria or not hysteria. So it's not about denial or not denial, it's about the degree. How to Scare? Shall we try to give people anxiety, what the council thinks, and something that I didn't mean? This is no revolutionary. The undersigned also did not say that there was an alert from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that might have put it out, but that it would have been a warning from the university. There's a difference between that and that. Then we come to self-pitching. I believe it is wrong to have whips in the tool tool. That is what SV believes is right, and all credit to them for it! I believe that stimulation is the method we have to use to transform society, make it attractive to invest, make it attractive to use new technology – not through a ban line, not through a climate quota law, which the Council of State still does not want to respond to, which imposes such a high cost on Norwegian industry that it does not reinvest in Norway. That's the problem. Then you can only dream of technology development, because you destroy the clusters in Norway with such an approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e702	The position of the SV on environmental issues and policies is naive. You have to keep the Norwegian industry that is today. You have to, and we all agree on that. But you have to cut oil and gas, says Holmås, because that production emits so much gas. But oil production is perhaps the largest Norway can contribute towards the International Energy Agency by 2030. Our oil, gas and aluminium production has less CO2 emissions per. unit than anywhere else in the world. That's what's important. Had it even been that if Norway had only turned the cranes back, the world would not have needed either oil or gas from Norway, or the aluminum we produce here. But that's not the case. The world needs all those things, and that is the dilemma of the policy being pursued today by the red-green government. Research on renewable energy must continue. Even sea windmills on deep water are important for research. But we had a hearing yesterday in the Energy and Environment Committee, and the scientific community fully agrees with the Progress Party that it will take a very long time before windmills at sea are used. However, it will come into view – yes. We should research in all areas, but until we have achieved enough renewable energy, we must continue to produce oil and gas. It is a fact that until the amount of energy produced by Norway in one year, 110 000 of the largest wind turbines built in the world are needed to replace that amount of energy – and there are dimensions! It doesn't seem to make an impression, at least not on SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e712	When there was a discussion about the framework conditions for Norwegian business and the question of ‘self-pipping’, I feel the need to underline Norway’s dual role and strategies here. First of all, we're going to be an international driver and we're going to deal with the things we can do. Here, Norway is already very offensive when it comes to the Rain Forest Fund, over-fulfilling the Kyoto agreements and other measures in the developing countries. In the distribution Erik Solheim came in yesterday, it was just to tackle things where we could make a difference, which was really underlined – such as international shipping, financing, deforestation measures in developing countries, and the use of carbon capture and storage. Then there's not only a discussion about process, but it'll be very results-oriented. The second dimension is what Norway should do domestically. One often meets the question: why do we have to do something all day? Although Norway cuts almost all of its emissions, it would almost not be measurable on international measurements. But there's a lot of reasons for this. First, it's impossible to be an international driver if you don't do something yourself in your own country. It is impossible to reach a goal if not everyone takes their share of this, and the rich developed countries must at least make sure that they take part. The second is that, for the sake of business, it is absolutely necessary to take action that distorts business from being impotent to becoming a green enterprise. It is not hostile to industry to change that policy — on the contrary. I pointed out what the new technology can contribute to in terms of industrial development. It has a dual function, i.e. that it can progress in the development of our own country while being transferable to other countries. The technology of carbon capture is a very clear example of that. Within new renewable energy, there is a great potential when it comes to creating many new green jobs. Therefore, there is no question of doing anything abroad or in our own country. If we are to achieve goals, Norway must be a driver internationally, and we must take the necessary conversion measures in our own country, without going beyond Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e729	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[Fotation, see page 754]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e750	There is a great potential for development in migration. Europe – and Norway – need a labour reserve. People come here with knowledge and competence, while bringing resources back to their homeland. Voluntary migration creates positive driving forces. Migration policy, trade policy, development policy and aid policy can be seen in a positive context. Voluntary migration and development are interrelated, and in most cases both the country of origin and the country of destination will be economically served by controlled migration. Among the exceptions is the risk of loss of skills that poor countries are in need of themselves. Globalisation and increasing openness in the world face ever-increasing challenges. New cultures come close to us, and our own culture is being challenged. A lot is enriching, which is demanding, and something is unacceptable. Much of the migration in the world is out of control, and for Europe, migration flows have become a major challenge. We can use the situation in Norway as an example. The asylum flow has increased from 5,500 to 18,500 only in the last four years. Very many asylum seekers have groundless applications. People risk everything they own and have in an attempt to get to Norway, and end up with rejection. Many feed on trafficking in human beings, and minor children are sent around the world to the greatest, and often inhumane, trials along the way. The costs are high both for individuals and for society as a whole. Despite the rules of the EU Status Directive and other attempts at harmonisation, there are still considerable differences between European countries in several areas of asylum policy. Visa rules or protection of the rights of refugees may be examples of this. Although Norway is outside the EU, in a number of areas we have formal cooperation with the EU on asylum policy. In other areas, we have indirect cooperation. Cooperation makes Norway co-responsible for the policy being developed, but it also provides us with opportunities to be a supplier and a driver. We have long been aware that by 2010 the EU will finally have a common European asylum system in place. Things have been out at the hearing, and it has been possible to make recordings, changes and improvements. The right has been concerned that Norway should use both the formal and the informal channels to participate in and develop a common European policy on asylum. This was also part of the background to our representative proposal in the autumn of 2007, to which the Stortinget joined. With the Swedish Presidency, Norway’s access to Europe’s decision-makers has been better than in a very long time. I hope Norway has taken advantage of this opportunity. Every five years, the EU updates its five-year plan of police and customs cooperation, asylum and migration cooperation, criminal and civil law cooperation, to mention something. The Tampere programme was followed by the Hague programme, and now the Stockholm programme is on its way. The aim is to improve cooperation on combating crime and harmonising asylum and migration policies in Europe. The programme’s defenders believe that it is courageous and ambitious, and that the legal certainty of individual citizens and immigrants is increasing because the rules are to be clearer and fairer. In addition, they believe that cooperation on combating crime makes Europe safer. On the other hand, the critics of the programme believe that the price paid for increased security is increased monitoring of citizens and higher thresholds for those seeking a safe haven. Some voices have also considered that there is not a sufficient focus on combating illegal immigration and on ensuring that immigration into Europe takes place in accordance with the wishes and needs of Member States. I look forward to hearing the Minister of Justice's reflections and considerations about this. I hope the discussion today will deal with the mutual influence and dependence of European countries in this area, how the challenges arising as a result can be resolved jointly, how the new policy in Europe will affect Norway, but not least how the Minister of Justice sees fit to deal with it. The EU is literally fully involved in the final phase of the Stockholm Programme. In the Council of Ministers this week, 1 December, agreement was reached on the substance of the programme. Next week, 10–11. on December, the Stockholm Programme shall be addressed by the Heads of State or Government. There's a lot of evidence that the program is also going through here. If the programme is adopted and implemented, the EU will enter a new phase that will be marked by individual EU citizens, ranging from common rules in the field of civil law to a common asylum and immigration system and to more multidisciplinary police cooperation and counter-terrorism. With regard to immigration and immigration policy, which I have had as a starting point for this interpellation, there is a consensus that the EU needs a flexible immigration policy in order to meet the needs of the future for labour. Many people believe, for example: that the Stockholm Programme places greater emphasis on legal immigration than has previously been seen. It is probably also due to the fact that the EU needs labour in several areas and that there is considerable competition between Western countries to attract highly educated immigrants. Today, for example. such that approx. 5 pst. of those with high education from Africa chooses to travel to Europe, while 95 pst. selects the United States of There is a real need for a more flexible policy that takes more account of the needs of the labour market. We also have several examples of this in Norway. However, there is also a consensus that illegal immigration must be combated – although some people believe that it should have gone further – and there is a strong need for more solidarity and burden-sharing among Member States. For example, due to its geographical location, there are: one of Europe’s poorer countries, Greece, a disproportionate share of the burden on asylum in Europe compared to other countries. Of course, common rules do not guarantee that they are implemented in the same way. The Commission has therefore – as far as I understand – proposed what they call training modules, which will become mandatory for all national asylum authorities, and that there should be much stricter control over how countries apply the rules. This shall also be followed by an evaluation of practice. If this would affect Norway as a third country, I would like the Minister of Justice to comment on it. The new Stockholm programme will therefore be that justice policy becomes a more integrated area of cooperation in line with other EU policies. The EU's work is therefore comprehensive and important and has implications for Norway as well. As the Minister of Justice is aware, in the 2007–08 session, the Right called for a comprehensive communication on Norwegian asylum and immigration policies from a European perspective. This Storing Message has still not arrived, but I note that it has been notified during 2010, i.e. more than two years after the initiative of the Right. At the meeting of the European Committee on 23 January this year, where the Minister of Justice was also present, Elisabeth Aspaker from the Right called for Norway’s position in the work on the Stockholm Programme and the concrete initiatives taken by Norway. The question was not answered at the time, and I assume that this may be due to the fact that Norway's involvement and recording may not have been as many as we could have hoped. As far as I have registered, the government sent their recordings in October – i.e. at the absolute final stage of work. If I have read these correctly, the primary focus was an attempt to understand Norway's position as an EEA member and Schengen member, but they contained few substantive political input and proposals. However, although the Stockholm Programme can also be seen as a programme declaration in many ways, it also appears that the EU is now committed to taking concrete action and action. The Stockholm Programme appears to be the result of a maturation process in an area where the EU has gained a lot of experience and knowledge. This ageing process has also been necessary and important, precisely because the programme deals with a large and partly controversial policy area that is important for Norway. In many ways, there's a recognition in Europe that we're sitting on the same boat. Practice in one country may have some major consequences for another country. This marks Norway to the greatest extent. When e.g. Sweden and/or Denmark are tightening up their asylum policy, yes, and the influx to Norway is also increasing. The solutions must therefore be jointly sought. Norway is directly affected by EU migration policy, and we must therefore be concerned about what is happening in the EU and be careful to participate in those arenas where it is important for us to be present. I therefore welcome the fact that Norway has recorded more specifically, and what input the Government will make when the European Action Plan is to be drawn up in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e805	Let me first thank you for the interpellant. I also believe that these are questions that we should discuss more often. It helps to put migration policy in a broader perspective – as the interpellant did in its contribution by expanding the entire content of migration policy and also the opportunities we have to implement the policy we actually want. It must be a hope that we can just discuss what is possible and what actually brings about, more in the future, both in terms of asylum policy and migration policy as such. I would add – as the inter-pellant also pointed out – that there is also the possibility of discussing general justice policy issues, because these issues are interrelated. The EU five-year programme in the field of justice and home affairs, the so-called Stockholm Programme, is expected to be adopted by the EU at the summit of 10–11. December of this year, on which the interpellant was in. It is still the case that the Government has to pursue an active European policy and work specifically to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. Norway is served to be part of the enlarged area of freedom of movement in Europe through our relationship with Schengen cooperation. This means that we have an external border in common with the EU countries, among others. by the Mediterranean Sea. Boating of migrants across the Mediterranean, trafficking in human beings, high asylum entry rates, the many unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, and the reception situation – I stress this – of asylum seekers in some countries make it apparent that Europe faces challenges that can only be solved through well-developed European cooperation. I have even said that I believe that one of the greatest opportunities we have, and one of the greatest challenges we have – especially since I took over this field – we have in the European arena. I want Norway to be an active contributor to addressing the challenges of immigration into Europe, while upholding the humanitarian principles. I am pleased that the Swedish government has wanted to involve as well as non-EU countries, as well as international organisations and European non-governmental organisations, in a very open process on the design of the new action programme. On the Norwegian side, we have, among other things: through good Nordic cooperation, had the opportunity to exchange views on the action plan over a longer period of time. It concerns both bilaterally between the undersigned and Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask before I took over this field, and now also through the meetings we have had with the Minister for Migration, Tobias Billström, which I will come back to. This autumn, the Swedish Presidency of the European Union has had consultations with the EU Member States, among others: Norway on the direction and content of the new five-year programme. In this context, we have communicated our views directly into the process, for example. through meetings with representatives of the Swedish Presidency and the European Commission. It was a meeting, among other things. at State secretarial level, in addition to ministerial meetings. We have also communicated Norwegian views and input through the note to which the representative refers in his question. The Stockholm programme has also been the subject of meetings with the Swedish Minister of Justice, Ask, and the Swedish Minister of Migration, Billström, last week in Stockholm and in Brussels this week. The EEA Agreement and Schengen cooperation are important European cooperation instruments that Norway naturally needs to focus on when the EU is reviewing its plans for the next five years. On the Norwegian side, however, we have placed great emphasis on taking advantage of the opportunity to make representations in key policy areas, such as the rights of individuals and the protection of privacy. We have emphasised that Norway supports the focus of the draft five-year programme on family, social security, alternative criminal responses and Schengen cooperation. One of the main objectives of the Government is a humane, solidarity and judicial asylum and refugee policy. This implies compliance with international obligations, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. The draft Stockholm Programme clarifies that it is still necessary at European level to have a targeted response to the migration challenges, based on solidarity and shared responsibility, and that human rights remain one of the cornerstones of European cooperation. There is reason to pay tribute to the Swedish Presidency too much of the direction of the Stockholm programme in several fields, in my opinion. The government has underlined the need for cooperation in the field of refugee and migration. The last meeting expressed support for the further development of the Common European Asylum System. As a Schengen and Dublin member, Norwegian authorities are committed to the implementation of the existing directives in the field of asylum. The Government is committed to following up the openings for cooperation existing at European level. Among other things, Norwegian authorities want to participate in the planned European Asylum Support Office, the European Asylum Support Office, EASO, which has also been the subject of the recent meetings we have had. We believe that such a support office will contribute to harmonisation and more consistent procedures and better information exchange between European countries. We have signaled to the EU that we want to participate actively in the construction and further development of the EASO. Norwegian authorities also support the development of cooperation with countries of origin and transit both in order to better control migration flows against Europe and in order to cooperate on regional protection programmes. We have stated that we want to be more actively involved in such programmes. In the recording of the Stockholm Programme, we expressed the positive opinion of the Norwegian authorities that the draft focuses on the situation of single minor asylum seekers. We believe it is particularly important to focus attention on this vulnerable group and that a structured approach to issues related to this group is essential. The five-year programme should focus on the rights of single minor asylum seekers and have concrete measures to improve the treatment of minor asylum seekers’ cases. Norway has a long tradition of resettlement. The five-year programme provides a positive indication that the draft signals a greater commitment from European countries in this area, which will increase the importance of resettlement. We have signaled that Norwegian authorities are willing to share their experience with EU countries in this field. Furthermore, we have stated that we value the fact that the fundamental rights of individuals have been given greater place in the new programme and that data security and data protection have been raised on the agenda. However, we have stressed that there is not necessarily a contradiction between effective data exchange and data security. We are also positive that the rights of vulnerable groups, such as crime victims, children and women, are underlined in the programme. There has been an ongoing theme in the meetings we have had with the Swedish Presidency for a long time, including. trafficking victims, but also children as victims, in particular as regards sexual abuse and Internet abuse. However, we stated that this could be emphasised even more clearly in the programme. As regards police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the draft Stockholm Programme focuses on serious organised crime. We share the EU's priorities on this point, and I have, in many respects, in my meetings with other European Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, emphasised that Norwegian law enforcement authorities will cooperate with European colleagues in every possible way to reverse the emergence of serious cross-border crime. The time aspect prevents me from going into it in detail, but there is reason to point out that we in Stockholm last week signed the police cooperation agreement – the so-called Prüm agreement – which gives Norway great opportunities to fight crime. It is also essential for Norway to have an accession agreement, including: in the case of DNA searches in other European country databases. The Swedish Presidency has given us very good drag help in this regard. As the representative of Greece refers to, there are several ongoing processes of change in the EU. On 1 December, the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force – the appointment of a new EU Commission. This is important for the further development of EU cooperation, and it is important that it is also reflected in the announced notification of Norwegian refugee and migration policy in a European perspective. The impact we are now in the process of doing will be aimed at elucidating developments in this field and the opportunities and limitations offered by Dublin and Schengen cooperation. This message is expected to be promoted during 2010 and, as a response to the interpellation of the representative of Greece, will be a very good opportunity for the Stortinget to discuss this in its breadth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e843	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a positive response to the interpellation. It is clear that the Minister of Justice has a desire to be part of the European asylum and integration policy, just as he wants to be part of European police cooperation. This is linked, and it is positive that the government is now actively working to get the decisions made. It is difficult for the opposition to know how active the government has been in the process of influencing the decision to be taken in Stockholm next week, but the Minister of Justice has at least had several meetings with my party colleagues in Sweden, Billström and Ask, and has obviously benefited greatly from it. I look forward to the Government coming to Stortinget with this big message about asylum policy that has been wanted for a long time. Clearly, there are major changes in migration patterns, but also in how Europe now intends to deal with the influx of asylum. The last play now is that the UDI will allow asylum seekers who are refused in Norway to obtain a work permit quickly. I have to say that the Right has something skeptical about it. After all, we have promoted a number of measures to open up increased labour migration from outside EEA cooperation, for example. to the fishing industry in Finnmark and to the mines there. Russians who want to come and work in Norway have serious problems getting to it. It is also important to see the labour immigration systems in the context of the general immigration and asylum policy, because these are two different things, but it is clearly linked to the fact that the UDI is now thinking of making it easier to obtain a work permit. In the newspaper on Monday, there was a larger notice with the State Council of Storberget, where he said: ‘Norway cannot pursue a policy that differs significantly from other countries in Europe. Closer cooperation with the EU shall contribute to the resolution of the asylum crisis.» I now perceive that he underlines this in his response to me, and that is right-wing positive to. I hope that this is a line the Government will follow up, and that Norway is now focusing on a policy that largely harmonises with the policy in our neighbouring countries, for example. Denmark, which has for a long time been subject to strong criticism from many in Norway, but which has actually implemented measures that prove to be effective. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e857	I would just like to repeat that a debate on European migration policy and European justice policy is helping us to have a more general view of the whole debate. I think the debate deserves it. It also helps us to create tools that actually produce better effects than many of the tools that may have been discussed in the policy on previous occasions. What is interesting in European cooperation, both in terms of migration policy and justice policy, is that it is now very much about operational mechanisms that enable us to coordinate both responses and take decisions. That is why I believe it is absolutely essential that Norway be present and discuss it, among other things. with a Presidency at all times. From the Ministry of Justice, we have chosen to meet the existing Presidency and also the in-depth Presidency, so that we constantly remind them of the role Norway wants to play in this field. Now that the police cooperation agreement has been signed, the next objective in the field of justice is that we should be able to participate in cooperation, for example. wetting transfer. At the same time, we see that with regard to a good part of the operational instruments in which we are involved – whether it be the Schengen Information System, the VIS or other types of data-processing – we are totally dependent on being close to the decision-makers. On these issues, we have the opportunity to do so in Brussels – to be allowed to sit around the table. At the same time, there is often a feeling of narrowing and effectiveness in the European context, but it is now also clearly a major challenge that we contribute to setting good common standards in the political debates that take place in Brussels and in Europe in terms of migration. Now, if you're going to get a good and effective Dublin agreement, a new generation, I think it's absolutely vital for Norway to be here and come up with opinions on what kind of standards it should be. Especially when we know that there are a good number of countries that, among other things, When dealing with asylum seekers, we have every interest in helping us to get good rules and also contribute to a policy aimed at a greater burden-sharing. Therefore, this will be a policy area that will require a lot of us, and not just give us benefits. But overall, I mean the whole of Europe, and not least those who migrate, will benefit greatly from the fact that there is a great deal of international cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e866	Earlier today, Stortinget has discussed the preparations for the Copenhagen climate summit and how Norway is dealing with one of the greatest challenges of our time, climate issues. Another of today's really big challenges is migration. How do we ensure that migration is used for something positive – that people voluntarily move on, get protection, get a better life, work, family life across borders – so that we counteract the darker features of migration, that people are pushed out, that people end up in an uncertain situation, that their status is not clarified, and that people are forced to travel by family or circle? This is one of the greatest challenges of our time and an enormous field of tension. There may be no more complex subject area in Norwegian and European policies at present. There is an enormous field of tension between the individual's need for freedom, protection and a decent life and the need for regulation of society. One challenge for us as parliamentarians is that much of what is the tool, the means, in the field, is determined by others other than the Storting. It's not like that in this field that all power is in this hall. It's in many other arenas. First of all, it is about what goes directly on this interpellation – the conditions in other countries and the conflicts in the world, where there are crises, wars and environmental damage that pressure people to escape. EU policy has a very strong impact on Norwegian policy. What is determined in Brussels has a direct impact on Norway. As many people have experienced, we cannot be a lonely island in European politics. We need to follow the processes very closely, but we also need to follow the decisions taken in Brussels. Then we have the Dublin cooperation. As a result, the immigration policy of another country determines the possibility for a person who has been in another country first to apply for a stay in Norway. This means that Norway sends persons back to the first candidate country, rather than dealing with an application here. So in the field of regional policy, we see that there are other countries' legislation, other systems, which govern important and very central tools in the field of migration. I am pleased that the interpellant in its first post has a positive attitude towards migration and points to the positive sides. I would like the Stortinget to be able to discuss this field much more and more times a year in peace and quiet on an overall level, without constantly jumping for the media and constantly taking the debates after that there have been situations. Our problem is that many of the debates come after the media have written about them, after, for example, writing about them. has recorded a large increase in asylum arrivals. Thus, the debates will then be held. It's going to focus on the negative. The focus is on tightening up, and you really don't get a complete and balanced debate on this. I believe that the political environment needs opportunities to discuss this area, not only in peace and quiet, but also in the run-up to the processes, so that we can discuss it in full, and so that perhaps Europe, rather than discussing how to build dams around Europe, can discuss how to build channels into Europe. To a certain extent, it has been done in relation to labour immigration by setting up employment offices, for example: in African countries. It provides information on how to legally seek access to Europe. In several areas, a single European responsibility and initiative for finding more legal access to the European Community may be discussed. One of the main challenges is, as I see it, what goes on implementing decisions. Here we have a common European challenge. It does not help with all kinds of measures, whether restrictive measures or internment schemes, some of which have been addressed if decisions, residence and not least return are not managed. Here, it is important that the countries of Europe jointly find tools that can make their home country accountable to their inhabitants, and I think it is a great deal to go on with a wide range of joint actions. With this, I would like at least to mention that we have more and more regular debates at a general level in the national assembly in Norway, not only to be in front of the important debates that are coming, but also to find common instruments across party boundaries – because this field needs to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e887	It is undoubtedly an important matter that we are debating today. That's why, of course, it's also very commendable by the representative of Greece and Right that one is promoting this interpellation. Migration is a major challenge. It is also an increasing challenge. We see that asylum numbers are increasing in Norway. This means that we also need to get more involved in this problem. It is important that we cooperate here with the EU – Dublin cooperation and Schengen cooperation. There is also something the Progress Party supports. But while, on the one hand, we have a cooperation with Europe and are trying to solve challenges with other European countries – and the EU – we also need to have a national effort on it; we need a national governance that is based on intrusions, rapid procedures, etc. European cooperation does not have to be a sleep cushion in any way so that we do not have to make an effort at national level. So we need to have two thoughts in our head at the same time, both European cooperation and national efforts, in order to meet these challenges. As I said, this is an increasing challenge. That's why it's important that we get this kind of debate, and focus on it, in the national Parliament. It can also be repeated, so that, if possible, we can find cross-political solutions to some of these problems and challenges. We probably don't get cross-political agreement on all of these questions, until that's enough distance too big, but anyway, it's important that we take this up for debate, and that we focus on the challenges and problems we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e898	This is an important debate. It is really a pity that the Stortinget did not discuss the Stockholm programme until it is ready for decision in the European Union, but at least we will be glad that the debate is coming. We should really have debated this yesterday, when we discussed the Justice Budget, and maybe spent a little more time on it rather than on some less important things, which we actually discussed yesterday. The interpellant concentrated on asylum and migration policies, but the programme also includes important issues of justice policy. I hope that the Minister of Justice can help us to highlight a little more concrete what priorities have been set by the Government, and say something more about what this will mean for Norwegian justice policy. In recent years, we have seen a rapid increase in the number of burglaries and rants carried out by gangs from new EU countries. Norway is not the only country in Western Europe that has experienced it. The theme is natural to discuss in the context of the development of the Stockholm programme. Norway is, in part, quite lagging behind in combating this type of crime. The question is, to what extent we inspire other EU countries to do something stupid that we may not have started with here at home. Therefore, I would like to challenge the Council of State to clarify what has been Norway’s contribution, and if the Council of State believes that the programme provides sufficient hope that new joint measures or plans may be put in place to stop and combat this type of crime. The councils were in a row of cows and full prisons. There has been a repetition of the Norwegian debate. The rescue queues are now almost removed, but are likely to increase again. In a hurry, the majority of the Judicial Committee had to re-prioritize funds for increased custody capacity because it came as a bomb that, after a police conflict, more police would cause increased pressure on custody capacity. It also has an important European dimension, because it is due to a large number of foreign criminals. Many prisoners in Norwegian prisons come from the EEA territory and take up a good deal of accommodation. There is reason to believe that some of these also continue to coordinate criminal acts from prison cell. The prevention of the prison regime creates national challenges, but the question is also how European co-ordination related to settlement transfer is to be done more to meet the challenges facing Norway — on which the Council of State was involved. The Justice fraction in the Right has asked questions about this, but no clear answer has been given to how the Council of State sees it necessary to carry out the settlement transfers to EU countries. Not least, some prisoners are to be returned to the countries from which they come, so it is also to ensure their return. I also want the Council of State to respond to this. I want to get into what the Council of State said about social security issues. The councils were in on it, but he did not say exactly what input Norway has made. It is absolutely right that social security issues should be given an increasingly prominent place in EU cooperation and that it should be important. We did not discuss this much in the budget debate yesterday, although we are, therefore, strongly lagging behind at national level in relation to, for example, the situation. Civil defence, so on behalf of the Right, I want to challenge the Council of State to say something about the concrete input that has actually been made in the area of social security, and not least what credibility Norway has in relation to the fact that we do not follow up what was the Storting's premise when we dealt with the paper on social security. The Prüm decision is good. But it took two years. And that is our challenge in relation to European integration: that we must have separate agreements. Developments are extremely rapid in the field of justice policy. I therefore want to challenge the Council of State whether we are at risk of similar treatment periods for the various legislative instruments that will eventually be out of the Stockholm programme. On the right, Prüm agrees that Norway has an important role to play. However, we are given the opportunity to discuss the question of DNA analysis later in connection with a proposal Right has promoted for Stortinget today. In this context, it is worth noting that the EU is already working on legislation that could make it difficult for us to pursue national policies in relation to DNA analysis, namely that we cannot maintain, for example, the EU. The monopoly of the Federal Institute of Forensics. So the Council of State should take into account the fact that it is already possible for EU policies to influence national policies in the field of DNA analysis. Finally, a few words about the Data Storage Directive. We will have time to discuss it later – but can the Council of State also say something about the significance of a Norwegian veto for our credibility in relation to the EU? There were a lot of questions. Governments should at least be able to respond to some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e919	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for the inter-pellation – it is very good that we have taken some proper rounds of EU policy in this area. Our committee is primarily responsible for the burden of asylum and immigration – not the other parts of judicial cooperation. But there we have André Oktay Dahl, among others, who is a member of the Justice Committee. I think finding some good systems for how we in Stortinget can interfere with this kind of thing at an earlier time has proved to be important. Several debates we have had during this short autumn we have been gathered, among others. on the Data Storage Directive, we should have taken to the landfill at a much earlier time than we have done. Just being early in the processes is important. Now the Norwegian people have said that we should not be a member of the EU. Then, at Stortinget, we have to adapt to it and make sure that we still get involved with, and discussed, all the cases while they are in the process of the EU – that is to say, commend the inter-pellant. It is a comprehensive document, this Stockholm programme. It has a lot of different sides. Even I can only begin by saying that from SV's point of view, we were critical in our time – we were opposed to connecting to the different parts of judicial cooperation. We had two main objections: one was about privacy and privacy. Here I believe we have got it right. The other concerned fear – and it may be even more important – of getting a downward spiral, with narrowing of refugee policy in different countries. That's where we've been right. And what I think it is essential to have a discussion about the Stockholm programme is precisely that when we have a cooperation that we are part of, it is extremely important for us to have an offensive role, where we contribute to raising the minimum standards that exist in the EU in the field of asylum, to ensure that people applying for asylum are properly treated. There are very clear wordings in the Stockholm programme. The formulations are very clear that even if you have to have strict border controls, people should have the opportunity to apply for asylum. In particular, there are single minor asylum seekers, who are a very vulnerable group. Joining this and helping to strengthen the EU's work on this is extremely important for Norway, because within the field of asylum and refugee, we have the tradition of having a fair and legal asylum and refugee policy – from Nansen onwards. We can sometimes think that the tension in refugee policy in Norway is great, but then one has not heard the European debates. It is probably right to say that the range between different European countries is at least as large as the range within Norway in this particular field. So it's good that the Swedes have taken this initiative. I mean, there's a lot of good here. There are also many things that we are critical of, but that is a good basis for further work, and it is important that the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the Government do a proper job. Because it is clear that when we are linked to a system in which we send refugees back to a country they have first been in, it is extremely important that we are sure that that country is conducting a proper asylum process and has a decent level of reception for asylum seekers. I share the concern that has been reported by NOAS through their reports, in the case of Greece. A clear breach of a good part of the fundamental rights to be enjoyed by asylum seekers can be demonstrated – also in relation to the entire procedure that is linked to the institution of asylum. Greece also has a very high rate of rejection – much higher than what we would find natural if we were to deal with matters in Norway. The Soria Moria declaration is clear on this, the refugee convention is clear on this: although we have cooperation with other countries, in Norway we have a separate responsibility to ensure that people applying for asylum here receive treatment that is in line with what is of the basic conventions to which we have attached ourselves. So there are many other things that can be mentioned here: in the meeting with different organizations and departments different places in the office you get different input. Some of what I've picked up is, among other things, the possibility of searching in Eurodac – there is only one opportunity to search for asylum seekers once. However, when you know that there is a ‘delay’ in the system on registration elsewhere in relation to the application to Norway, there should be an opportunity to apply more than once in Eurodac to people who are asylum seekers. That would make sense. As far as the UDI is concerned, I would just like to say in the end that their proposals make me think I'm worth discussing, because it gives an opportunity to direct people who are actually labour immigrants into that area. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e940	The President will remind you that speaking time is not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e943	I would also like to start by thanking the inter-pellant, Trond Helleland, for taking the initiative for an important debate. Norway is not an island in the world, and interaction with Europe on migration issues is important. The Stockholm Programme shall provide the framework for EU work on police and customs cooperation, rescue services, judicial and civil cooperation, asylum, migration and visa policies for the years 2010 to 2014. For one who sits on the municipal committee, the key issue is asylum and immigration. There is a long-standing and ongoing work in the EU to cooperate and coordinate asylum policy. The Stockholm Programme shall replace the Hague Programme, which has set out the guidelines for this work in the years 2004 to 2009. One objective is that asylum applications should be treated in the same way throughout the area. The EU has taken some steps along the way, including: through the Dublin Regulation. Unfortunately, however, people still have to deal with a sort of asylum lottery in Europe. The outcome of an asylum application is still to a certain extent commendable to which country it is dealt with. It is absolutely necessary to coordinate Norway’s policies in the field with other European countries. However, it is also important that this is not primarily a competition to have as restrictive a policy as possible. Then we can quickly find ourselves in a situation where the consideration of people for flight and for human rights can be described with a downward spiral If we are to be able to handle asylum policy in a good way, it is also important that our decisions are based on knowledge. Yesterday the report ‘Why Norway’ was presented. The researchers Jan-Paul Breek and Monica Five Aarset have examined the explanations underlying asylum seekers’ ports in Norway. The report shows the processes and causalities that have led asylum seekers to end up here. Some of the answers can be found in the impression that asylum seekers have Norway. Norway appears to be a secure country that respects human rights. The ability to get work and to build a good life is also an important reason. Measures such as family reunification and other immigration policies can also help to make Norway attractive. However, information on this policy varies widely between groups. A good reputation, such as: Norway is a humanitarian state, and it can also help asylum seekers to get here. Researchers point out that it is important to distinguish between measures targeting different aspects of the immigration process. When politicians try to control migration flows, they can choose to do so either before potential asylum seekers leave their home country, during the arrival phase, or during the integration phase — that is, after a person has been allowed to stay. I would like to quote Break's comment on this: ‘Politics are often tempted to try to control the flow of asylum by regulating the latter part. One must be careful to introduce integration measures in order to achieve migration policy objectives.’.» This is an important point that I, as the Christian People's Party representative, also stand for. The four-year rule for family reunification is such an example. It may have unintended effects and have serious consequences for those who may have to wait up to 6-7 years to be reunited with their family. Disability of family establishment and family reunification for those who have demonstrated the need for protection also hampers the possibility of good integration and quality of life for those on whom we are internationally obliged to take care of. In this context, I would like to say that in the case of family reunification, it can therefore be seen as an important capital in terms of integration. It could be interesting to get some comments from the Council of State on just this last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e968	I thank the interpellant for addressing this matter in Stortinget. I'm not going to start an EU debate, but I'm going to start by saying: we need people in Norway, and we're going to be very happy that immigrants came to Norway in the 1970s. At least I am very happy that these immigrants were allowed to come, because then we were allowed to be born in Norway, with the possibilities it has given us. But we can learn from the migration that was at that time. It's actually going very well. We hear that the minorities in very many areas are topping up some negative statistics, and then you don't see the positive on the other hand – what a class trip this is actually. You have parents who are illiterate, who come from a village far into Punjab, you are born in Norway, and then you are trained to be a doctor at the University of Oslo and may receive H.M. The King's gold medal for excellent research, which some have just received. The class trip has been huge, and the possibilities it offers are enormous. I do not think we should make a problem out of the fact that there are as many people coming to Norway as the representative Stokkan-Grande so far had. I'm not going to misinterpret him. I don't think he thinks it's a problem either, but we need to find the good solutions. The problem is not that there are so many. The problem is caused by three relationships, which I had to deal with yesterday. One is that we have 11,000 applicants who have their applications pending, where the proceedings have not been initiated. Here, in the left hand side, we've proposed giving 100 million. kr more to the UDI, so that this procedure can be avoided. The second is the 3,500 people who have been finally rejected, but who do not return, among other things. because they themselves do not choose to return, because we are unable to achieve good return agreements, and also partly because we do not know who these people really are, and where to return them. Of course, this work needs to be intensified. Then you have a third relationship. It is the problem that those who are allowed to stay get a wrong signal when they come to Norway. The signal early in the 1970s was that you can come here as long as you work. When you work, you feed yourself. The values that children learn when they see their parents at work are that it's through work that you can feed yourself. It's the good standards that go beyond inheritance. What happens now when new people come to Norway is that they sit and wait – waiting, and preferably sheep. We in the state take care of them; they are not allowed to participate in the work. And when some of these are given the opportunity to stay in Norway, after they have been granted a permit, they are waiting for a passive everyday life. Once you have become very well used to, and very well known to, the welfare arrangements that we have in Norway, it is very difficult – after almost sitting and staring at the wall for two to three years – to start working. We must succeed in changing the spinal cord reflex that many people from other countries – I would say non-Western developing countries – have. They have social challenges other than Western countries, greater degree of corruption, poverty. They have a different spinal cord reflex than that the natural spinal cord reflex will be in a country like Norway, where the state is your friend, not an enemy, the police are your friend, and not an enemy. The police are there to help you, and the state is not the one you're asking, but the one you're actively contributing to and willfully paying taxes to. This integration debate must help to change the reflexes of the spinal cord. If you can do that, asylum seekers will no longer become a problem, but can help to do something about the aging wave we are going to face in the coming years. We in the Left agree with the UDI Director, who is today concerned with making it easier to obtain a residence permit. I would be very interested to know if the Government agrees with the UDI Director, whether one is willing to see if one can grant a residence permit and a work permit instead of all having to stand in the asylum queue, and whether they can change queues, as suggested by the Left, and get into the jobseeker's queue instead – so that one can use the skills they have. Director Ida Børresen says, among other things. to NTB today that ‘UDI can thus save resources and reduce processing time, prevent groundless asylum seekers from waiting a long time for a refusal and allow society access to the necessary labour’. As she assesses it, and as we in the Left see it, there will only be positive aspects associated with our being able to give asylum seekers in Norway the right to change queues, get them out of the asylum queue and into the employment queue. It will be beneficial for asylum seekers. It will be beneficial for society, and it will be beneficial for the generations that later grow up and have seen their parents at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1002	I would like to thank you for a good, sober and factual debate on an important and difficult question – really a battery of questions like this. I'm not going to give the Council of State any new challenges, because he's got so many from other people who have been involved in the debate. He'll get to spend the three minutes on it. I noticed that the chairman of the committee, Holmås, was pleased that this was taken up, so that we could debate it in advance. It is now a week before the EU adopts the Stockholm Programme. It could have been an advantage if we had had this debate, not necessarily as an inter-pelling debate, in the Stortinget at an earlier stage in order to be able to get in the front line and give signals to the Government about what the Stortinget seems to be important, when Norway is going to join such an important and broad programme as the Stockholm Programme. Holmås was also concerned that there were sides to this he did not like. He collected one winner after another, at least he felt it himself, because SV had been against participating in judicial cooperation and had got right at the point after point, on which he said that much of what is in the Stockholm programme is good. So to the extent that I'm going to polemize with someone in this final post, it's going to be with the committee leader. In my view, in his conclusions, he was positive that Norway is now actively participating and is trying to influence European policy. But then it is also important that we participate in judicial cooperation in the same way as other countries. The representative, Raja, stated that there was a lot of waiting in Norway. That is, I suppose, the main problem in asylum policy today. It takes too long to deal with the matter. When they are treated, they become conversion decisions. There will be new rounds. There will be people sitting around on asylum receptions that are actually cleared for departure. It was stated in the Address Paper that there are now 3,300 who are in Norwegian asylum recipients and have received a final rejection. This is a problem. Perhaps the government could start by looking at how the state itself has put this up. For example, there is a waiting reception when you are waiting to go home instead of a departure centre. That kind of symbol policy is also important to give a signal about what this is. What are you waiting for when you sit at a waiting reception? Well, you're waiting to go home. Why don't you call it an exit center? I look forward to the big message being presented, and that it will not be exposed for too long, because now it is urgent to have a proper and wide-ranging debate on this issue. I have the impression that many people in the hall also believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1015	If I were to reach out to all of those challenges, it would take more than three minutes. I have to ask Storting's understanding of that. There were many challenges here, but I want to grasp what I see as important threads in the debate. First of all, the Storting is given the opportunity to discuss these questions. That is one of the main reasons why I have asked my post that the first document we are going to provide for the Storting of some size in this field is the Storing Message. It gives us ample opportunity to discuss where to go in the future. But the Storting also has the opportunity to raise these questions. This interpellant debate is a very good example of that. It may be a call to all of us to raise the debate on the challenges we face in terms of migration, not only here in the Chamber, but also elsewhere. To the representative of Bekkewold, I just have to stress that I am 100 pst. Agreed. On the issue of adaptation and cooperation into Europe, there is always one overall principle there. That is the humane principle that we are applying in Norway and that we are going to stick to. We're not messing with that. The human rights standards applicable in this field must apply. It's not just about migration, it's also about justice policy. It is interesting to see that when Stortinget was invited yesterday to take a position on, among other things. agreeing to the privacy rules outlined in Europe, which will manifest themselves through a completely new police record law, Norway will also be affected by European teams in improving our standard of what we regard as important areas, whether it be privacy, human rights issues, etc. I perceive that there is a reciprocity in it, but there is a general principle there, and I intend to govern this part of European cooperation between Norway and the EU too without throwing these principles on the boat. I believe that we can establish many points of contact. We have many contact points across Europe related to these issues. It is an advantage for us to sit in what we call the 'Mixed Committee' in the Council together with the other ministers in this field. There we have direct access, bilaterally and multilaterally. We are invited to attend the informal ministerial meeting in Toledo, Spain, in January. It gives us a rich opportunity to continue to influence. So to the representative, Dahl, who has a lot of questions about the Prüm agreement and settlement transfer agreement: it's fine that Norway is allowed to join. It takes time, but the Prüm agreement has not yet been implemented in Europe. Norway is at a level with many other countries, so we have the absolute opportunity to make a significant impact on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1026	Then there's case no. 4 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1045	The keyword for this interpellation is the Council's opinion on an idiosyncrasy. Among those who were not fully invited were the Stortinget and the opposition. That's why we've allowed ourselves to try to find this opportunity. I'm not going to spend too much time describing the situation in the yard industry and the supplier industry, because I know that the Minister of Industry knows so well. We have been able to record this in recent times, when he travels around and has to look at some empty workshop halls and some slumped order books. It is good that the Council of State travels around, and that he finds that the situation is difficult and probably also gets worse before it gets better. It's important to make a diagnosis. But finding medicine is even more important. Sometimes it is not most important to cure, but perhaps even to cut away – ‘new life of dead growth’, as Elias Blix writes in his spring salam. But when the Minister of Industry travels around, there is no hope of death, but there are hopes of life in and after a difficult time for the companies in crisis. We have seen in the newspapers, at the latest today and several times this week, statistics coming from the Statistical Central Bureau, from surveys in different industries that investment is falling. The SSB is not quite as pessimistic as the industry itself, naturally – business leaders would like to be careful. What this boils down to is what's available from tools. Although we have a low leave, it is difficult to communicate when we know that there are so many who are struggling, not only in single companies, but in areas of industry. The problem for the Government is that the 2010 budget is laid down, that the economy is not changing now, and that we get wave number two after the financial crisis, which enters the real economy. I don't have any hope, and neither do I, that the Minister of Industry is going to help create any new market, but we were going to record some of the thoughts that we have. The interpellation is not meant to plague the state council with the situation, but to be a constructive partner in the case that the government should find ideas and views on the situation from the Storting opposition interesting – first of all to know what the Minister of Industry thinks, and secondly to say a little from our side about what we think is important. If this development continues, I am not saying that there will be a need for special crisis packages for the industries we are talking about, but I think that the revised budget in spring 2010 should be able to become an arena to see what to do. I also intend to take up the country's ownership, which has been up in the debate, and how that governance is to be done. The right agreed on everything that was done in connection with the crisis package last fall and in the winter of this year. But we would have had the measures slightly different, not least to strengthen the businesses more and not to direct them so unilaterally towards the public. I think it turns out now that this was right. Many companies now experience difficulties in lending projects due to high equity requirements – equity that has been weakened by many years of tax increases on owners. It is the owners and their capital that are now most needed to save jobs, and even more so to reduce the expertise and know-how available in important industrial areas. In the financial position in November, there was a recording, and in the position the Economic and Social Committee will be giving in a few days' time, we will be making more recordings. I agree with what the Council of State has said in the past that there is no single measure that will resolve the crisis. That's the sum of the individual measures. But to get a high sum, you need a lot of action. Equity and funding are now two key elements. We have proposed to keep the temporary increased depreciation rate, which we believe was removed too quickly. The companies were informed in February–March that it had increased and would only be out in 2009. You almost didn't have to align until this was removed again. In addition, with regard to the loan framework in Innovation Norway for low-risk loans and innovation loans, it is quite right that this is an increase in the 2010 budget compared to the 2009 budget, but I think we should continue with the measures from the crisis package a little longer. In addition, we have put forward proposals on the famous shipping tax case, which involved significant equity withdrawals. Now the Storting has decided it. It's up to the court. Nevertheless, the Government will have the opportunity to suspend the payments to add this as equity to the companies. In our option this year, we have improved the business tax side by $8 billion. There are numbers that help, even if it's lubricating thinly to a lot of companies. Then I have registered that the Council of State is putting a certain pressure on the oil companies to buy more from the subcontractors. We also want the market to grow, but preferably naturally. We prefer incentives to all companies rather than pressures. I hope – and I hope perhaps the Council of State can say something about this today – that he thinks in the direction of political over-management of the company's investment strategies. I think that's an unfortunate way to go. I hear LO's pretty strong on it. I also hear the answers from a company like this. Statoil, most recently during the Minister of Oil and Energy seminar in Stavanger, where they say they register pressure to invest more. They themselves believe that they invest properly according to their profitability. I expect it to be the board of directors of the company who believe this. Although we're up in a difficult situation, I think it's important to keep things apart. Companies must be governed in accordance with the principles that govern them. They must take into account that they have a weakened competitiveness on the cost side. They have to take into account that the oil price is quite different from what it has been, and they have to take into account that it opens up much less exploration than it has been in recent years. In this connection, I must also remind the Council of State that his predecessor, Brustad, in the department in his time accused the Spaniards of so-called 'tax-lease back' and protectionism. It is clear that Norway is vulnerable to that type of activity, but we also need to be careful. We also have to think about our media play on the direction of state-owned companies, that you want a direction, for example. in purchases from Norwegian companies, will raise the reverse debate in our competitor countries, which are also potential sellers and sometimes buyers. In this connection, there has also been a case about work permits on a Norwegian base, about having fewer foreigners. It has come up from the trade unions, and I realized that the government has been, if not positive, it has at least said that it will look at it. It is clear that such measures also bear the mark of protectionism, which may be difficult compared to the countries with which they are to compete. In the end, I just want to say a little bit about a couple of suggestions that we're going to include in the nutrition situation. It's asking the government to look at the rules of GIEK and Export Finance and whether these can be expanded. Many people believe that the legislation has simply not followed in time – that we now have a different type of production, we have a different type of technology, we have a different market, which means that we should look at the legislation and that it can be expanded. What, for example, to assess the fishing fleet into this? So you could say this isn't export. Yeah, you can discuss that. At least what they catch is exported. So at all, to think a little further like that, because it is primarily – and I have seen that the Council of State has also been informed when he has been out there and travelled – the financing side that is the problem. If you get funding, you can help out on equity. Then the buyers also come, and then the guys on the floor of the yards get more work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1081	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important question. It is entirely in line with what the Presidency has wanted for several years, namely that the current debates in society enter the main hall quickly, and that we can discuss political issues in a good way in the present. The interpellant asks the question: How and what can the Government do to strengthen the framework conditions for businesses and make jobs in the shipbuilding and supply industries safer? After many years of growth in world trade, record freight rates and strong increases in world fleets, shipping is now in crisis. Low freight rates, ship performance falls and low funding have triggered a demanding situation for shipping companies. Shipowners are reluctant to order new ships, while banks impose stricter requirements to finance new projects. Previous contracting means that a large number of ships will be placed on the market within one to two years. Despite some cancellations of new buildings and increased construction, we enter a period of overcapacity in most shipping markets. Together with a lower oil price level, this leads to very low order intake for the shipyards and offshore workshops. At the global level, the order for ships has fallen by about 90 pst. Lower yard activity both in Norway and abroad also has consequences for Norwegian equipment suppliers. The paradox is that while other industries may see the light in the tunnel and feel that they are on their way out of the financial crisis, this industry is on its way into it. In fact, due to long order horizons, 2009 will be a good year for most Norwegian shipyards, offshore workshops and the supplier industry. These industries are later affected by the financial crisis than several other industries. The order reserves allow most suppliers to maintain a high level of activity by 2009 and some by 2010. But from the fall of 2010, two thirds of the shipyards are standing without orders, and the larger offshore workshops are waiting for less than 40 pst. capacity utilisation. While the protected sector and parts of industry are experiencing new growth, these are now entering a very challenging market situation. Our task is to make sure that this actually becomes a tunnel with a light at the other end and not a shaft where you're in the dark for too long, long time to come. The situation is also serious for employment around the country. 40000 people work on the construction of ships and oil platforms. A significantly larger number are employed in total supplier enterprises. In 2007, the number of young people in the EU increased. 100000 employed in offshore supply industries. New shipbuilding yards, offshore workshops and equipment suppliers represent competence-based jobs across the coast, often in local communities with limited alternative employment opportunities. Many of the companies are world leaders in their segments. Lower activity can lead to a significant number of redundancies and high unemployment in many communities. It is of great importance to the small municipalities and communities as this framework, and where these are corner stone companies, but it also means that we risk losing critical competence – skills such as businesses and we need when markets return. The government has put in place various targeted initiatives involving massive measures to mitigate the impact of the turmoil in the financial market and the international economic situation. Our various packages within banks, in the field of construction, etc. should be well-known, but it is a fact that we are the country in Europe that best manages through the financial crisis, with the lowest unemployment. Yesterday, even the Central Statistical Office came out with new figures and said that we are not going to exceed 100,000 unemployed in the coming years – a figure that many thought we were going to pass at a good margin in 2009. This has been successful, it has been right, although there have been different signals from the opposition through the different phases of the crisis. The government has paid attention to contributing to building confidence in the capital market. This has been done through the banking packages and increased the framework of the Export Credit Guarantee Institute and Innovation Norway. The Government will facilitate a forward-looking and innovative business environment and a stable framework for the maritime sector. Therefore, the 2010 state budget is the largest ever in research. The government proposes to strengthen industry-related research with an increase of SEK 2.2 billion. Innovation in Norway’s various schemes will be reinforced by DKK 1.5 billion, while the innovation and low-risk loan frameworks will be set at 500 million, respectively. DKK and DKK 2.5 billion. There is a total increase of DKK 1.2 billion compared to the 2009 budget. My impression now is that it is not the public funding mechanisms that are the plug of the system. It is clear that when the order intake goes down by 90 p.m. globally, Norwegian yards and suppliers will also notice this. This is the most difficult thing for us to do, to replace these tasks is demanding. In the construction sector, we can start public construction projects, we can start transport projects, rehabilitating public buildings, etc. Here it's harder. Nevertheless, we also need to pay attention to the mission side, and there is the fact that the oil and gas sector is an important contributor to many of these companies. Having an attention to the fact that we have a continuity of development, that we avoid these high economic cycles under pressure in prices, which we have had, and which we risk getting back in a few years if we do not ensure a steady expansion – is also a political responsibility. Of course, the operators, the oil companies, themselves make decisions on their commercial basis about when and which projects are being expanded. But having a discussion about it and having a political attention to the fact that this has major societal implications, I believe is also a task for a Minister of Industry. To answer the interpellant’s question: this is not about us wanting operators to choose Norwegian companies over others that may be more competitive. It's just that you have a continuity, progress in the ready-to-use projects that stand there, and then Norwegian companies get to compete on equal terms with others. A few days ago, we were informed that Aker Solutions had won a major contract with British Petroleum on the Valhalla. So Norwegian companies are competitive, just the missions are coming. So it's like it's been a historical boom. 2009 seems to be the best year ever for many of these companies. Therefore, a certain slowdown of the market is quite natural. At the same time, it is important to ensure that staff affected by redundancies, lay-offs and redundancies are properly cared for. It is the conversion power of the Norwegian industry that is one of our foremost competitive advantages. The government has made it easier to allocate permits to several employees and for longer periods of time. We have introduced more flexible permitting rules so that more lay-offs are entitled to daily allowances. The maximum period of leave has also been changed, from 30 to 52 weeks. The number of days of pay obligation in the case of a leave of at least 40 pst. have been reduced from 10 to 5 days. We have also, in September this year, made it easier to obtain support for company internal training. The duration of the aid may also be extended from 13 weeks to 26 weeks in exceptional cases. This will strengthen skills and training opportunities, and thus also the ability to adapt in Norwegian enterprises and strengthen the staff affected by the recession. It is also important that we have an interest in new protectionism and unfair conditions of competition during this period of crisis, which was also the subject of the interpellant. We have to take care of ourselves, but we also have to deal with other countries. Trade agreements are an important instrument to reduce trade barriers, and one of the main priorities of this government will be to get good agreements, with China, which is priority number one, but also with other emerging economies, such as India and Russia. In addition, I have addressed the demanding situation of the current and continuing Commissioner for Competition in the EU, Commissioner Kroes, and expressed a concern about a development in which some countries develop schemes that could bring special advantages to their own shipping companies and shipyards, thereby making the competitive situation of Norwegian companies more difficult. I have also asked GIEK, Innovation Norway and Export Finance to record possible changes in existing instruments if there is increased flexibility to provide funding for the tasks that are actually there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1109	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say it was an answer that surprised me a little, too often it is that when the government gets interpolated in the Storting, you think something quite different about the reasons as well as what the interpellant does. But I see very strongly that the Minister of Economic Affairs absolutely shares the situation description, that it is very serious. That's good – that's a good starting point. Then I hear the Council of State say – and that's quite right – that the industries we're talking about are sensuous, so they're coming after the financial crisis. That is precisely why, and that is what the Right has said, I believe that some of the measures that we have proposed in the past – it is going on depreciation, it goes on loan frameworks and guarantee schemes, in particular the loan framework – should have continued. But then it's also true, as the Minister of Industry says, that it's not just about public funding, it's also about private financing. It's not so good to dig out equity where equity no longer exists. But the ratio is that over the last four years, very many companies have been drained for equity through increased taxes on owners, and not only those who are going to finance purchases, but also those who are going to carry out production. That money they needed in the time we now go into. With regard to the management of the allocation, I perceive the Minister of Industry's response so that he has not intended to enter and govern neither Statoil nor other companies. I don't disagree with having a public debate about this, but I think you might be from a political point of view, at least from those who have the final responsibility in the departments, you have to be a little careful so you don't get misinterpreted about this. All in all, I'm so happy that we have a common understanding of the situation. I am also pleased with the last signal, which I have heard before, that we should look at the framework of GIEK and Export Finances. We are promoting such a proposal in the industry position, as a recommendation to the Government, and I hope that you will take a closer look at that. If we're lucky, maybe even the positions on the Stortinget get the opportunity to join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1120	It is always an advantage for any political debate to have a common sense of reality, and I really think we have in this situation. This is worrying. It's something that's affecting the whole world. This is not a strange problem, it is a result of the financial crisis both on the financial side and not least on the way world trade has fallen dramatically, and that one now has an overcapacity for a good number of types of ships. It's important here that we set up everything we can. We're going to contribute to projects, we're going to contribute to good financial instruments, we're going to facilitate activity. At the same time, however, we must constantly stimulate the adaptability of the industry. No one, either businesses or businessmen, is served by trying to keep alive in companies that are not competitive now or in the future, or by building more ships of which there is already a great deal of overcapacity. We have to build what it needs, and what it needs. Then we have to change, use new technology, use new design and environmentally friendly solutions, etc., to be ready for the markets that are coming in the future. It is here that both the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian shipyards have a huge competitive advantage, namely that we are always innovative, ahead of us, develop new products and have a highly skilled workforce. It is particularly in this area that we should set up our main instruments. Our ability to convert, as I believe, among other things. has its background in the good social arrangements existing in the world of work and in the Norwegian society — the Norwegian model proves to be very strong in terms of job conversion — has contributed to the fact that we have actually had higher economic growth than the average in EU countries for a long time. So it looks like we're doing better through the financial crisis than most other countries. In the case of depreciation rules and the type of thing, they shall generally reflect the actual write-down of capital, i.e. there must be consistency between the facts in the accounting rules. Then we've also used this as an instrument in the financial crisis. But I think maybe we should be aware, at least in the future, in the months and years we get into, that the financial crisis goes from a stage in which the whole economy is affected, to a very different functioning in different industries, so that we are more industry-specific about the measures and instruments we use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1131	The autumn storms in 2008 were overshadowed by an international financial crisis. The whole world was hit, and many people around the world experienced losing their jobs. I am proud to belong to the Workers' Party, which conducts a responsible economic policy. When the financial crisis came over us, it was good to know that we have held back in good times and therefore had a robust economic situation. It enabled us to spend more money on stimulating activity and continuing high employment. The measures have gone to those who have been directly affected. The government has been aware of the effects and duration of the measures, and the measures have had a temporary duration for us to return to normal situations as soon as possible when the crisis is over. The opposition leaders Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen sang an inappropriate Christmas song last fall. The measures came too late and are too small, the strophes that went in rehearsal on all channels. It was almost amazing that they were so concerned that the government would come up with expensive measures, those who otherwise preach that the authorities should stay far away from the industries and let the market rule itself. For the Stoltenberg government, it was natural to intervene in a demanding situation from day one and contribute to an offensive effort to secure people's work. Fortunately, the situation today is that many are on the right track out of the financial crisis. But what's worrying is that the maritime industry is on its way right into it. It is difficult to predict when the market is resuming. It depends, among other things, on: the time when the world economy and the large investments are gradually beginning to recover. What we know is that the time we now go into, pain will be both industries, businesses and individuals. Our job politically is to maintain close contact with the people in these industries and provide policy instruments that can stimulate conversion in terms of competence, market, environment and product. On 26 January this year, the Government came with the package of measures, how many offensive measures were available. This has proved to be an incentive for many and more flexibility in the instrument, which has given us through a tough time, but still with low unemployment compared to the rest of Europe and the world. So the numbers are now at 2,6 pst, and they're proof of that. As a member of the Business Committee, I see it as an important task to contribute to finding solutions for the industries affected by the crisis. I believe that we have provided a good enough budget – at least we are going to deliver it quickly – but not too expansive, with the maritime industry's challenges related to the dollar and interest rates. In the budget, there is a continued offensive investment in GIEK and Export Finance, which has been a very important instrument for this industry. I am concerned that we are now going to make these arrangements more flexible in the future, given the contracts already entered into and that several actors can come under the arrangements. In addition, we shall further stimulate the development of skills through, inter alia: Innovation Norway’s system of occupational training, as the Council of State said. We continue to invest in research and development, and I am tempted to remind you that the Norwegian authorities, compared with other countries, contribute a lot to this effort. This industry is extremely concerned about being a horsehead in front. Every day they are not required to think about new things, not least environmental technologies. This industry is the largest sector of competence in Norway, and the horror scenario is that in times of recession, important and necessary skills may be lost in order to move forward. I therefore believe that there is every reason to continue to invest through Innovation Norway to stimulate empowerment. This is an important contribution to the recovery of businesses from the crisis, rather than the loss of skills that can contribute to new development in the time of the desert. Good interaction between industry and government is also important in the future in order to have a low level of unemployment in this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1150	In the years to come, Norway has to look after its economy in such a way that we have solid and growing industrial exports that complement what we serve to extract oil and gas. This is the only way to ensure value creation and well-being in Norway. Now we have to avoid ending up like Holland in the 1970s. The nation was ‘Dutch sick’. It turned out to be something quite different than a short-term, economic inconsistency. The Dutch sick person is a term that was apparently first used by the magazine The Economist, and the recognized British economic journal pointed out that gas exports from the Netherlands had imposed a currency value that greatly weakened the country's competitiveness. Imports increased, exports fell. With reduced gas exports as reserves fell, deindustrialisation became a result. In today's Norway, we see more and more signs that the Dutch sick person is a real threat to our economy too. We're spending more oil money today than ever before. Bureaucracies are growing, while high taxes are inhibiting private business. Twice as bad because of the experience that a strangely high interest rate affects future pay demands. We have seen through a number of headlines that we in the yard industry and the supplier industry will face significant challenges in the years to come. We know that within the yards is per. Today approx. 80 pst. of the agreement in the oil and gas sector. That is, you immediately enter the area into the Minister of Oil and Energy. We also know that the tax egy in relation to the base affects the rate of investment, also in the case of state-of-the-art city ships, plumbing, etc. Today, there is also considerable uncertainty about how the labour market and unemployment will develop in the future. According to NHO Quarterly Report No. 4 believes that a sum of registered unemployed persons in labour market measures will increase from today’s 95 000 to 120000 against the second half of 2010. We've seen this year that economic development is moving along two very different tracks. While the public sector and parts of home-based business are increasing in activity, market and cost uncertainties are high in export industries and currency-sensitive businesses. Competitiveness refers to moderate wage developments. In addition, there is little room for strange interest rate increases that can further strengthen the rate of interest. Business and politicians must therefore stand together to ensure activity and innovation in the district of Norway. There must not be a struggle to be the most effective in protecting areas and reducing CO2 emissions at the expense of our business. Rather, we need to work together to find good solutions that will ensure employment and activity in the years to come. The government has reinforced the problem for the shipbuilding industry by tightening down the depreciation rules and continuing to tax on wealth. The Progress Party will therefore ensure the framework conditions for the enterprises that provide the basis for further growth and predictability through lower taxes and simpler regulation, and not as the Government through tightening down the depreciation rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1174	Minister of Industry and Trade Trond Giske and his predecessors, Sylvia Brustad, have been eager to visit the West during the financial crisis, and that is good. What people are now asking about is whether the responsible state council will follow up the interest he has shown through his visits, and actually contribute to saving jobs. The hopes of the Government have created with their frequent visits are at least great. At STX Europe's yard in Florø, formerly Aker Yards, which Trond Giske visited in October, 120 workers are now on leave. The seriousness of the situation is quite clear for an enterprise that has 230 added. The shipyard has only two construction assignments left. The next construction will be delivered at the beginning of November and the last in February/March 2010. The yard is a very important workplace in a municipality where the business community is entitled to export and thus vulnerable. There will be significant negative consequences for large parts of the coastal town industry if the yard is to be decommissioned. There are many similar challenges elsewhere. The financial crisis can be long-lasting for important parts of the Norwegian export-right industry, but it will pass. The decisive thing is how we meet the challenges created by the crisis, and manage the possibilities we have, before we can go back to better times. It is quite central that we do not miss the professional skills we have in addition around the yard, which will make it very difficult to get a new operation later. So what can we expect the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade of the Labour Party to do? Firstly, there is a clear expectation that the Government will not be in favour of further weakening competitive business by pursuing a fiscal policy that weakens Norwegian competitiveness. The Norwegian competition force is weak every year under the red-green government, at the same time as the government has increased taxes for those who create the jobs. Unfortunately, there is reason to fear that the expansionary budget for 2010 will intensify developments. There are probably many people who feel that the yard and supplier industries in the West are being treated in a vote by the Government. When the Right put in government last, there was also a difficult time for the competitive industry, and we got interest rates down and the exchange rate stabilized. But that was a big thank-you. Many suggest that this government is unable or willing to take these. Secondly, experience since 2002, when interest rates were very high, shows that nutrition rights were important for business to venture again. Unfortunately, this government has gone counter-clockwise, by increasing taxes on private ownership, such as raising capital and threatening jobs. In the case of over-capital, the prospects for obtaining the necessary loans are poorer and the company is lost for capital that can be used to make investments that secure the company and the jobs in the future. Thirdly, the Government must do its utmost to facilitate innovation and investment in new technologies. Unfortunately, we have recently seen a clear example of how it should not be done in biodiesel cases. The government, with its wings around biodiesel, has created great uncertainty among Norwegian investors as to whether it can be trusted that the Government is standing by the bets and promises given. Here the new Minister of Industry must open his mouth and get a change of course! We also see that the Government imposes new taxes on important companies that threaten jobs in other industries. For example, the two red-green governments have increased the fees of Lerum by 60 million. kr in the last year. It's a lie, I can promise. The Norwegian economy needs a strong signal about which direction the government wants to go in important areas. This applies to export rights business, future green jobs and to suppliers to the socket. A good example of innovation is Måløy Verft in Nordfjord, which will build a special boat for windmills. The newly developed submersible catamaran is specially designed as a service and supply ship for offshore wind farms. Other examples include investments in renewable energy production, for example: windmills. One of the most important entrepreneurs in the exciting technology environment in Vågsøy is Gunnar Carlson. At a meeting with the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete in September, he stated that the tax rules are destructive to this innovation work, and that the wealth tax is a direct threat to this type of job creation. It is in stark contrast to the tools presented by the red-green government. The oil industry also needs a new signal. It is important that we start planning in the north, and it is important for this industry that he gets clear signals, also in order to create jobs in the north. No one can counter the effects of financial crises on the yard and supplier industries. However, the Council of State has both the power and authority to improve the situation, through a tight fiscal policy that does not weaken competitively additional ones, through tax havens, and through safe and prudent framework conditions for investing in innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1204	It's a very important thing that the interpellant, the fleet, takes up, and that the whole nutrition committee has been busy for a while. The supplier industry and the shipbuilding industry face major challenges. In the short term, we're struggling with the aftermath of the financial crisis, but we also have a more long-term structural problem. The industry itself stresses that there is no simple grip. Also, it's not enough to talk about tax relief, according to the industry itself. We need to focus on a range of measures to meet both the short-term and the longer-term challenges. In the short term, access to capital is still a problem. The Government has demonstrated the power of action and the dual framework of the Export Credit Guarantee Institute. Now it's the banks that don't follow up. Today's Business has demonstrated that the supplier industry has problems getting bank finance for good projects, despite the fact that both GIEC and Export Finance are in place in the projects. The government is following developments closely to assess the need for new short-term measures. But I would like to point out that there is also a need for more long-term action. The supplier industry has been in a period of expansion and good order access, which is beyond what we can count on. If the industry is to maintain the level of activity and maintain the unique competence built up, it is absolutely necessary to have more bones on. And we need to become more independent from the oil sector alone. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, has presented the World Energy Outlook 2009 report. There is evidence that there will be huge investments in environmental technologies in the next few years. Many businesses are investing everything in this exciting market. The supplier industry in South Africa has launched the ‘Environmental Footprint’ project to deliver the world’s most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly equipment, and several of its suppliers are involved in the development of sea wind turbines. In the West – as previously mentioned here today – there is a commitment to developing special ships for sea wind turbines. The government is investing large sums to facilitate a gradual transition to the new, exciting market for environmental technologies. There are eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy, with an increase of up to 165 million in 2010. kr. The supplier industry both in the South and in the West is strongly involved in the strong efforts of the Government here as a result of the climate agreement. However, the main challenge for environmental technology conversion is cost-required product development and piloting. Therefore, in addition to research efforts and the established works in Enova and Innovation Norway, the Government has set up a new Eco-Tech Fund of 140 million. kr. This could start an important cooperation between industry and the Government on the development of environmental technologies. With the problems facing the industry, it is extremely important to enter the environmental technology market before it is too late or before the other nations have positioned themselves better than Norway. But this is a demanding market, it is a market that does not comply with all normal market laws, because it is largely publicly regulated. That is why it is particularly important, when we are going into the environmental technology market globally, which is very important, to have good cooperation between the public and private sectors. It is a commitment that we should be able to take the position in the environmental market that Norwegian business has absolute competence and capacity to handle. In Soria Moria II, the government has announced a review of the combined Norwegian business tools to assess how they can best contribute to the development of environmental technologies. Here we need good cooperation between the Government, between the majority and the opposition, and not least with the business community, to find out how we are currently using the pooling of resources as best we can to bring forward a new technology, which is what we are going to live on when the oil industry – as we now see – is not able to take responsibility for the employment in Norway alone. So I'll end with a little comment on the Progress Party, which is always talking about the Dutch sick. I think it might be time for us to introduce the topic of ‘FrP disease’ in the Norwegian business community. It's the disease we're going to have if we rely on just investing in oil-related industrial development and tax relief, and thus fail to raise ourselves to the future environmental technology market. Then we get a «FrP disease», which is worse than «the Dutch disease».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1227	There is good reason to draw attention to the situation in Norwegian shipyards. In the last year, no new contracts have been written at the Norwegian courts or at the suppliers of design and equipment. This means, in practice, contracting stops, and during 2010 the order books of the land-based maritime industry could go empty. The consequence of a continuing word-dehydration is that the land-based maritime industries must carry out mass denunciations. This could end up in the fact that a highly esteemed high-tech innovation and competence could be confused in a short time. Norwegian shipyards have to a large extent specialised in high-tech offshore special vessels. In this respect, I would like to refer to the situation of the shipbuilding and supply industry in my own country, Hordaland. In Hordaland, the shipyard and supplier industries are a particular important industry, and we have top international class yard and equipment suppliers. Longer unsolicited periods now pose a real threat to industries and to value creation locally and regionally. I would also like to point out that in November 2009, the Maritime Forum Bergens Region carried out a survey of its 120 member companies from across the entire maritime cluster in the Bergens region. Near 60 pst. by enterprises they expect a reduction in turnover over the next 12 months. We have about 70 shipyards and 250 maritime equipment suppliers in Norway, and with about 100,000 employees in the maritime sector, it will be absolutely necessary to follow the situation for these carefully in the beginning of a new year. This industry is particularly vulnerable given the role of corner stone holdings in many small and large communities. The centre party is pleased that the maritime strategy presented in the autumn of 2007 is being continued in the 2010 draft state budget. The government's vision of Norway as a world-leading maritime nation, and that the Norwegian maritime industries will deliver the most innovative and environmentally friendly solutions for the future are still at hand. It will be necessary to continuously follow up the five main areas: globalisation and framework conditions environment-friendly maritime industries maritime competence maritime research and innovation short sea shipping Over the course of two years, positive results have been obtained from the 53 policy action points, while at the same time one sees the maritime industries struggling in the global recession. It will therefore be absolutely necessary for the Government to follow up the results of this strategy in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1258	Thanks to the interpellant. This is an important topic, a theme we have spent a lot of time on throughout the fall, both through question time and through written questions, and we have received vague answers from the Council of State. We read daily in the newspapers – and I particularly follow up on what is happening in the North West – about major challenges. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Government does not seem to take sufficiently into account that parts of the world's internationally competitive business are still and will be affected by the financial crisis. The Council of State shows in its responses to today's arrangements, but we have heard little about how to meet new challenges. The Christian People's Party believes that action must be taken in the tax system and proposes in the State budget, among other things. an increase in depreciation rates on machinery and equipment from 20 to 25 p.m., as a targeted measure towards these enterprises. The Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government has not joined this proposal. For the shipyard and supplier industries, the current year is already very demanding. As the Council of State said, if new orders do not arrive, the courts will experience very heavy years. Several thousand jobs can disappear, and the Norwegian maritime cluster risks being permanently weakened as a result of the crisis. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government must be willing to look at a wide range of measures to ensure that this does not happen. One of the possibilities in this situation is to establish a research, development and innovation programme for the development of maritime renewable energy solutions aimed at the yard industry, which can contribute to the building of ships and installations for renewable energy, in particular sea wind turbines, on Norwegian yards in cooperation with the Norwegian supplier industry. This will ensure the development of new important environmental technologies, while at the same time providing the sites with a keen need for activity. Norway has world-leading research environments that can contribute to such a programme. The supplier industry, for its part, has access to offshore production. A short time ago, I visited Bergen Group, which is very positive about such a research programme. This was well followed up by Norwegian Industry. The industry is ready to meet new challenges. We also have maritime research environments with MARINTEK and NTNU at the head, which are world leaders in their fields. Like industry, the Christian People's Party believes that Norway has very good prerequisites for finding offshore and renewable energy solutions. Nevertheless, the Minister of Industry was reprehensible in his reply to the letter of the Christian People's Party to establish such a renewable energy programme aimed at the shipbuilding and supply industries. Another way to stimulate shipyards can be to put a stronger focus on the development of more modern and sustainable short sea shipping fleets and to invest in new climate-friendly gas ferries. Both of these fleet groups need renewal. In addition, the Federation of the Fishery Shipowners has asked questions to the Council of State if there is no time for an incentive to renew parts of the fishing fleet. All of this is not just about activity and securing skills jobs, but it will also be important environmental measures. As mentioned in previous articles, the offshore supply industry is dependent on the oil companies. The oil companies cut the activity, and this immediately negatively affects the industry. What happens after 2009 is very difficult to predict. In the short and medium term, however, we are not likely to experience any dramatic negative developments on Norwegian soil. But the picture may change if the economic crisis becomes more widespread or if the oil price is weakened. The Norwegian supplier industry has a large international market, and we expect competition to continue here too. What industry needs now is a stable and good framework. Today’s activity level on Norwegian pedestal must be continued, and we must not least pursue an active search policy. At the same time, we need to manage resources in a sustainable way, thus ensuring the basis for generations that come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1283	This interpellation actually sums up two interpellations we had on Tuesday, including those initiated by the Right, on the preservation of the competences of the oil supply industry and the international competitiveness of Norway. For the left, the answer, as it was on Tuesday, is that the way to a more profitable and competitive business is about incentives for proper conversion at the right time. If we are able to transform Norwegian business into a more environmentally friendly and innovative direction, there is no doubt that we will succeed – including in terms of the future basis for the shipbuilding and supply industries to the offshore sector. In addition, it is a matter of measures to safeguard and further develop the competence of enterprises. It can either take place through the tax system, through direct grant schemes or through better and more flexible permitting arrangements. All this has been proposed by the Left in its 2010 alternative state budget. The government has good intentions, but so to speak, zero suggestions. The left is also about a change of attitude for those who run businesses in Norway. All those who want to start for themselves, those who want to build a business – from one or two to many more – those who want to invest their money in Norwegian jobs and Norwegian businesses instead of having them in the bank, should get an extra knock on the shoulder. Instead, in recent years, the government has been targeting these precisely in its government budgets. The message is not to be misunderstood. For the Left, it is clear that good framework conditions, efficient solutions and good infrastructure are important – a tax system that rewards ownership and investment in Norwegian businesses and does not target them under the guise: take the rich. This, of course, is about budgetary policy at large. If the pressure on the dollar and interest rates is too high as a result of an excessive public budgetary policy, good action on the expenditure side of the government budget is scarce. Then it's important what public expenditure it's going to tighten up when we have to do what most people do, and with which the Minister of Finance agrees, tighten up in the next few years. Despite record growth in public budgets in the last period, research, innovation and higher education have been lost in almost every budget. The rest cut in this field looks like it will forever mark the imitation of the red-green government. Now we also see that precisely this industry, as the interpellant points out, is critical of the fact that several of the crisis packages are not being continued in the state budget for next year. The measures that the red-greens thought were very important and right eight months ago are not important and right anymore, although the crisis for this part of the industry is far worse and more extensive now than it was at the time. For the Left, it is obvious that Norway will have to focus on innovation, education and research in the future. We have to make things smarter and more sensible. The public sector needs to be renewed and modernised in order to ensure its well-being. We need to make the tax system attractive to those who want to invest in the environment and climate-friendly business, and we need to take the important and necessary steps so that we become part of the solution and not the problem of environmental and climate policy. If we do that, we will be very well equipped to face new crises in the future. But it requires both political courage and political will, which has so far been absent from the current government. Regrettably, the current government has excelled in a number of cutting-edge research and education policies, in the absence of willingness to stimulate behaviour in the tax system and in the lack of willingness to reform the public sector. On Tuesday, I recommended the Minister of Finance to read Left's Alternative State Budget for 2010 in Christmas, before he just over the New Year will start the important and challenging work of creating the 2011 budget. During the Minister of Finance's dinner in Parkvejen 45, I was told that it was actually going to be done by the Minister of Finance. So with all due respect, I pass on this same recommendation to the Minister of Industry!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1309	Yes, Christmas can be used so often!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1312	First of all, I have to say that I think it's great that the interpellant is busy participating in the idea debate on the challenges for the maritime sector, and it's doubtful that what we see in the horizon now is challenging – it's demanding, and it can be dramatic. I want to start by saying that the government parties are, of course, concerned with the Norwegian competitiveness. The export sector is absolutely necessary for us to have a high level of well-being, and it is very important that we base framework conditions that maintain or strengthen our competitiveness. The main foundation, of course, is to pursue a responsible economic policy that contributes to low interest rates and correct exchange rates. Thus, economic stability and stable framework conditions are the foundation, as well as what some have been faced with, that we also need to invest at a high level in research and education, precisely in order to promote innovation and productivity growth. New research shows that the Norwegian high-welfare model and centralised wage-fixing contribute to productivity growth and a high level of innovation in addition to high employment. More than 200,000 new jobs from 2005 to 2009 are a strong emphasis on the innovative power of the Norwegian economy. From the representative of Lødemel, a claim is made that we spend too much oil money and conduct an expansionary budgetary policy, and that it is part of the problem. I can reassure you that we are also taking this very seriously. That budgetary policy is expansive, I can join. But it's a budget for high employment and low unemployment. Strong measures have been taken and strong measures are in the 2010 budget precisely to ensure high employment and the lowest possible unemployment. In the 2010 Right Alternative State Budget, they reduce – according to the Right Self – the oil-corrected deficit by DKK 2.3 billion, or 0.1 pst. of GDP, in mainland Norway. Reality, of course, is that it is wrong for the Right to define the differences between the Right's proposals and the Government's proposals as the difference between being responsible and presenting an expansive budgetary policy, especially as long as one can also add that many of the savings proposals proposed by the Right's are highly notional. But to the challenges we face in the maritime sector: the situation is serious, and there is reason to pay particular attention to the sector. The main reason, as the Council of State said, is the failure of global markets. And it's not that it's negative that the Council of State is traveling around and collecting knowledge and is in dialogue with the companies that are exposed. On the contrary, it is particularly positive that an attempt to describe the problems with the exposed sector is trying to look for the good measures, those that work. That's what's demanding, and that's what's the challenge. Then I think it is important that one has a discussion where the opposition is also involved, that one includes input into further work and in an assessment of whether action should be taken and what action, if any, should be taken. Then we have heard that the fleet has repeated its – to say – normal procedure for tax reductions for business on a general basis. I'm not quite sure that's what will help the maritime sector in particular, but he has mentioned it. He has also mentioned depreciation rates and flexibility in GIEK and the instrument. I agree with the last point. It is very important now to assess the flexibility and the ability to strengthen flexibility in the future, so that it can embrace where the problems are. So this is with the offshore industry taken up, and there's been more debates about this in the hall this week. There is no doubt that as the situation is now, I understand the oil industry if they are a little preoccupied with investment, precisely in view of the assessment of market pricing is now correct with the market outlook available. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with trying to stimulate investment by the oil industry as well. On the contrary, they should be challenged because they are totally dependent on the supplier industry maintaining its level of knowledge in a low economic cycle. Then there are also many other things that can be assessed to remedy the situation, both in terms of research, development, flexibility in permitting schemes, etc. I am convinced that this government and the Council of State will do so, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has a solid knowledge base. In the end: I think this week reminds me a little of the corresponding time last year, when it was pronounced: too late and too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1335	Thank you for all your participation in the debate. It's quite strange that an interpellation that was written a month ago is a lot less concerned with its design than the unison concern that arises in the hall here today, from the opposition and from the position. It builds up a considerable expectation for the Minister of Industry. And that's not what the representative of Aasland says, that we have criticized the Minister of Industry for traveling around. On the contrary, I have given him compliments for it in this hall several times. He has to travel around to see and travel back to the government quarter and see what he can do. As I have seen the Minister of Industry in this debate – if I try to see what I think I hear about what he might think he is doing – I understand that he might agree that removing the extraordinary depreciation that was carried out in the package of measures was wrong. For now he's talking about us having lifetime analyses and depreciation times – now the Ministry of Finance has actually begun to go back on its old analyses about this. I hear the Minister of Industry talking about industry-specific schemes, and this precisely with depreciation rates must be such an industry-specific scheme. So it sounds like there's a consensus about getting more flexibility in the GIEK system. I think it would be good if you could also get the fishing boats into this. It can trigger significant investments. When the situation has evolved so much from this interpellation was promoted a month ago to today, what will it look like in two months' time? The big question for the Minister of Industry is: Is he going to wait until October, when the budget for next year comes, or will he put measures into the revised budget at the latest? I think he should think through this when he travels around and collects impressions. So to a few of the speakers from the Workers' Party, who repeat the mantra about ‘too little’ and ‘too late’, who should have come from the opposition last autumn. We participated in all the major funding packages, and we helped to expedite them in record time in Stortinget. What the opposition said was that the measures were too much directed towards the public. The packages were okay, but it should be more that stimulated the private part of the economy, not least the ownership part, which is just about to do so by strengthening equity via taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1350	First, I want to thank you for a lot of good recordings. It is clear that there is a broad political understanding in the Stortinget of the serious situation that the shipbuilding and supply industries may face next year, and in particular in 2011. Many of the representatives have also brought with them many of the good, creative and innovative ideas that exist in the industry itself, about new markets, whether they be windmills, environmental technologies, special ships or other investments. It's positive, because it means that we have growth representatives who are in close contact with the industry, with the companies, and get good input. I think we should facilitate broad and good arrangements. We have e.g. a record high sum in the 2010 environmental technology budget. We have Innovation Norway, with its arrangements. We have funding support schemes in other areas, and we have support schemes specifically aimed at environmentally friendly solutions, etc. But I think we're going to leave to the companies to find the practical, concrete projects. They know best where the markets are, and they know best how the customer base is. They probably also know the best direction in which markets develop as the crisis passes. We have our whole-time or leased state corporations. We should give them good support and conditions, but on business terms. Then it is always the case that, in addition to good ideas and constructive dialogue, all such debates will have a certain degree of political pinnacle. In particular, I consider the Left's description of the research effort to be good within that account. The research budget for 2010 has a record increase and is Norway's largest research budget. I think we have to go back to the autumn of 2001 – when the budget of the then Research Minister had an increase of SEK 1.3 billion – in order to find the way to increase the research budget. I won't mention the name of that research minister! We're roughly on the OECD average in public research, but we're looking for private research, for example. because of the structure of our business life. The dimensioning of crisis response is a difficult sport. It is quite right, as was said from the pulpit here, that in the autumn of 2008, we were criticised for the expansion of the 2009 budget – especially by the representative Sanner. When the crisis package arrived in January, it was too small and too late, and now it is tightening that applies again. So it's hard. This is demanding. It's hard to see into the crystal ball, but the experience so far shows that Norway is doing exceptionally well, and we're going to keep adding it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1365	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1371	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1451	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for the Environment and Development at its meeting on 3 December 2009 on the status and progress of climate negotiations be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1472	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-04.ana.ud2465e1484	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
