ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e55	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative Per Arne Olsen from 23 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Morten Stordalen, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e73	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e76	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal on behalf of Laila Davøy, Knut Arild Hareide and myself on humanitarian and health-related measures for paperless migrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e96	The Presidency submits a recommendation on the modification of guidelines on the use of allocated funds by large-scale and independent representatives. The proposal also provides for groups in opposition with two representatives to be entitled to opposition supplementation. Under today's rules on group grants, groups in opposition with one or two representatives are not entitled to opposition supplements. Groups with three to four representatives receive a half-opposition supplement, while groups with more than five representatives receive a full opposition supplement. The Presidency will show the importance it has for the parliamentary work that the individual political groups have a well-functioning secretariat. The rules on opposition supplementation were introduced in due time to allow the opposition batches to have a certain staff of advisers employed in the groups, in particular with regard to batches which, after government change, move from position to opposition. The Presidency sees that it can be argued that groups with fewer than three to four representatives also need opposition supplements in order to maintain a group secretariat of sufficient professional scope. I would like to stress that if the groups do not have the opportunity to ensure a certain continuity within the staff of political advisers, it could, in turn, limit the ability of the groups to fulfil their parliamentary role. Changes in the size of the groups will often follow by choice, and there will also have to be consequences for the resources of the group. However, the majority of the Presidency cannot see that there are serious reasons why the opposition supplement limit should go between groups of two and groups of three representatives. In the view of the majority, it is reasonable to extend the existing rules to groups of two representatives. Against this background, the majority will be in favour of amending the legislation with effect from 1 October 2009 in order to ensure that batches with two representatives are also entitled to a half-opposition grant. The Presidency has also corrected an error in the second sentence of the second sentence of Section 3, first paragraph, of the Code on the use of group grants, where the reference shall include groups having five or more representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e111	The regulations that have been in force until now and the regulations that are in force after we have dealt with this matter have been set out. I'll explain the minority's view of the Presidency. When a regulation is in place, it may occasionally have an unintended effect when a rule is applied. Then it might make sense to change the rules in line with what was intention. The matter we are dealing with here today does not have such an element in it. This with grants to the groups has been debated many times on different occasions. The legislation has been quite clear. It has been quite understandable, and the consequences of that legislation have been completely crystal clear. No one has been in doubt about it. It's also been a co-ordinated magnification that's made the rules that we've now had. Then we get a situation – after the election that left made – that means that the left gets the income that they get. So it's a democratic election, made by the Norwegian people, that's made sure that the Left is in the position they're in. I also think there's reason to think about it a little bit. I have to say that I understand well that the Left has come into a situation where they have an excessive staff around them in relation to the incomes. There are a lot of people who experience in these times. There are very many in business who are in exactly the same situation, who have to go to the step of reducing their staff, resigning employees, permitting employees. But they have none they can do to ask for more funds. Here in the house we can do it. I think it's going to be hard to get an understanding outside of this hall, when you don't have an understanding within this hall, for the situation that some people experience outside versus what you do inside this hall. I understand the Left, and I have no problem understanding that the Left sends an application to care for its employees. But I do not understand the way in which the majority of the Presidency deals with the legislation. I think it's an easy way of dealing with the legislation. If you have a code, it is also meant to apply. And it's not that it's accepted that you change a code along the way in a football game, for example. You don't do it after the fight. To the extent that you change the legislation, you do it before the next season. If you want to make changes to the legislation – and there may be grounds for doing so, you can have a debate on it – you should apply it after the next elections, so that no one gets too much, but you get a debate on a principle basis. And that's what I think it's interesting to take. So there are many other examples you can take. If, for example: is someone who is up to the exam and gets a bad result, and then you find that you just lower the requirement, so that he gets into what he's applying for, it's called, among other things. for camaraderie. And if it had happened here, I don't think we would have come to accept it. I think what's happening right now is really just putting the big thing in a little bit of a bad light. I think it actually also puts the Left in a little bit of a bad light, if the Left is simply granted out of a difficult situation by the Storting. As I said earlier, business can't do the same thing. So it's like the Left with today's system has a fairly good economy. So they're going to get a $1.7 million grant. kr per. representative, for example, while the Progress Party receives DKK 768 000 per year. Member of the European Parliament. We're doing very well with that amount. We could even imagine reducing that amount by 30 p.m., as will be evident from the position of the Financial Committee when we are considering the budget. But if you do that rule now, the left will get a 2.2 million grant. kr per. representative, and that's pretty much. Finally, I just register that political friendship costs a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e134	I urge Right-wing representatives to vote in favour of the presidential position, of which I am a part. I do not think this issue can be compared either with a football match or with market failure in individual companies – nor with political friendship. But if it is the case that the Progress Party perceives that agreeing on the matter is an expression of a kind of lasting political friendship, I will notice it, and I will come back to the matter. For the sake of order, I must also say that it is not the case that the Left's contribution after the elections remains unchanged – just as it has been said. This is because there is a limit on how low a subsidy can fall through the so-called opposition grant. It's said that regulation can't be changed. I must then, respectfully, be allowed to say that there may be some respect for the previous positions of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy which I think may be a little over the top, and I will illustrate this by saying the following: We've had situations with small groups in the past – I can remember as far back as the Aune list, where Aune was a person elected from one state, and we had the Coastal Party, elected from one state. There is a difference on the Aune list, to take the extreme, and the situation of the Left now, for the Left is a political party – if I am allowed to say so – which has ambitions beyond being represented from two states, and whose practical work now is to be followed by two representatives in all the committees of the Storting. Of course, it requires a lot of representatives, but it also requires something in terms of administrative support, and it is from a reasonable point of view that we are in favour of this small supplement. In fact, I also think it is an advantage – and perhaps a condition, if I am allowed to say it so strongly – in a democracy that we can have good working conditions for both large and small groups in a parliamentary sense. If a group goes into a four-year period and feels that there are no conditions to function as a whole group and a political party, it is a weakness for democracy, although, of course, the majority is right, and the majority can decide. But taking into account a minority is actually also a quality sign of a democracy. That's why I recommend the presidency's suspension without any major problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e145	I will be brief: I just want to thank an almost united presidency, which has chosen to meet the Left's recommendation to change the legislation so that we in the Left's Group have an economic foundation that enables us to follow most of the Great Britain's work in an ordinary way, even with just two representatives. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e150	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e168	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after the insertion by the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e177	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his presentation by commending the predictability of the EEA Agreement. Let me therefore begin by pointing out that it is also predictable to the extent that there is a comprehensive description of the foreign minister's half-yearly statement on the EEA. This fall we have all followed the drama surrounding the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union. Finally, it all fell on the President of the Czech Republic, Václav Klaus. The fact that it was precisely he who held the fate of the Treaty in his hand shows the historic irony of Mr Støre's colleague Erik Solheim's cash rejection 15 years ago that Eastern Europe would ever join the European Union. A true reading in the Evening Post in 1994 pointed out that if Solheim would say no to the EU to wait for Eastern Europe, he risked the Eastern Europeans waiting for us. I guess today we're really just hoping that Klaus and his fellow EU citizens have a lot of patience. There are several features of the Treaty of Lisbon that will lead to a more effective EU but will create problems for Norwegian influence. More rapid decisions, more power for the European Parliament and the Council of Europe and the disappearance of the pillar structure challenging the borders of the EEA Agreement are some examples. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that he had previously presented the main elements of the U.D.'s investigation into the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon on Norway. However, the Right still lacks clear feedback on what concrete actions the Government will take to meet the challenges we are now facing. In recent years, we have seen examples of government becoming late aware of important EU legislation or affecting too little and too late. We are being informed that Norway's only national expert in the European Parliament has now been withdrawn, while the Committee of the Regions points out that the European Parliament is becoming increasingly important. We hear reports that the Norway EU delegation, with its 34 diplomats and trade union councils, has only four access passes to the European Parliament. When I asked the Foreign Minister a few weeks ago about this in the Question Time, the Foreign Minister, of course, was quite right in his reply that Norway's relationship with the European Parliament does not stand and fall on one national expert. The problem is that the signal sent when the European Parliament is increasing in importance is that we are reducing our efforts in relation to influence. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Thorbjørn Jagland, at the latest, pointed out on Tuesday the problem that, through the EEA Agreement, we are dealing only with the European Commission, which is becoming relatively less important in terms of the Treaty of Lisbon. These problems must be taken seriously, and I do not think it is reassuring that it is so difficult to clarify what the Foreign Minister is going to do. In the President of the VG today, we can also read about the same, and it is quite right, as the leader of the VG points out, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom stated on Tuesday that the Treaty of Lisbon confers greater powers on those bodies in the EU where Norway is in poor contact. We celebrate this year's 15th anniversary of the EEA Agreement, although saying that we celebrate is perhaps a strong word. The predictability and stability of the foreign minister must not blind us to the EEA Agreement approaching its expiry date. After 15 years, almost no one in the EU system knows the agreement or is particularly interested in exploiting the opportunities it provides for closer policy dialogue between the EU and Norway. And that's really not strange, given that the EU now includes 27 countries and has developed rapidly both in width and depth. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Stortinget has an important role to play with the European Parliament. I believe that the Storting has an important role to play in the EEA process in general, and I am concerned that this role is going to be something more than sand. The European Committee is a useful body for dialogue on important European issues, but it can work better than today. I would like to call on the Government to send expert councils to meetings of the European Committee more often, so that the sample can be thoroughly briefed on major issues relating to the departments. We have repeatedly called for Norwegian positions on important EU processes such as the Stockholm Programme, without receiving additional answers. The right will come back later with concrete proposals to revitalise Storting's work on the political processes that are ongoing in the EU at all times. Nothing underlines the need for this work better than the list of directives which the Minister for Foreign Affairs read in his statement on Tuesday. Most of these directives were adopted several years ago in the bodies of the European Union. When the debate appears here in Norway, we have no opportunity to influence the European discussion. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the Government is now actively working towards the EU to ensure that the Banking Deposit Guarantee Directive does not weaken the level of the functioning of the Norwegian Deposit Guarantee Facility. I would like to make a concrete statement about what is being done to promote Norwegian views and about which bodies, and not least what experience the Government has gained with the work that was done in advance of the adoption of the Directive. We've noticed, and we've enjoyed, the good cooperation between the Government and the other Swedish citizens' EU Presidency, such as. has resulted in Norwegian participation in several informal ministerial meetings. It's valuable. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says: ‘The Government intends to continue constructive cooperation with the forthcoming Spanish Presidency.’ I would have liked to have the Foreign Minister's assessment of how likely it is that the Spanish will give Norwegian views and representatives as good access as the Swedish have done in the last six months. We can all philosophers a little bit about that we've put ourselves in a situation where we're dependent on trusting that other countries are willing to influence us. An interesting feature of Norwegian European policy in recent times is the extent to which our diplomatic efforts towards the EU system have the sole objective of ensuring our participation. This, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, is not only about the EEA and related programmes and agencies, but also about initiatives in foreign and security policy and judicial cooperation. We now have around 60 specific agreements on links to various EU initiatives beyond the EEA. Only recently have we been talking about the ‘Stockholm Programme’, the EU Framework Decision on Remuneration Transfer, the European Research Area, new agencies and institutes that will no longer have EEA countries as observers. The result will be a Norwegian European policy which is almost bare for political content but which makes every effort to negotiate access and participation. We are pleased that the Government has announced that they are working on an evaluation of the EEA Agreement, as requested by the Stortinget in June. Norwegian public opinion needs an honest debate on the many weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. The right looks forward to presenting the Government's approach to the evaluation and supports the ambition that the sample should be research-based and also comprehensive. As many have pointed out, Norway’s relationship with the EU is ultimately a political issue. But the Right believes in principle that most political debates are strengthened by a knowledge-based approach. I began by calling the Foreign Minister’s statement ‘foreseeable’. But let me end by commending the Council of State for having him, at least outside this hall, now after the elections seem more open to the challenges our outsiders pose to us. During the NUPI Foreign Minister's debate, we received some very clear situation descriptions from both the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and his predecessors. But perhaps even more important – I noticed with interest that he also uses social media to express his frustration. On Monday, after the meeting of the EEA Committee and before the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs was due to begin, we could read on Twitter: ‘Meeting over, Norway is leaving while the rest of Europe is moving in.’ So this is our democratic deficit, summed up by less than 140 characters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e224	The right has repeatedly, in part also today, made a number that the three government parties have different views on Norwegian EU membership. Basically, no great sensational observation! If the elections in the autumn had led the majority in the Great Britain to turn the other way, that is, that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party had a majority – parties that, as far as I know, have quite different views on the EU, if they have any vision at all – what position of Norwegian EU membership had a government taken out of these four parties? And the next question: which other parties are in favour of EU membership, does Right in the long term have ambition to reign with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e231	There is one significant difference between what underlied the previous government, that is, the government of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the government of the government that now sits. The second government had a seamskills paragraph to the effect that, if the EU case was on the agenda, there was no longer any basis for government. On the other hand, the current government has a maritime section that prefers not to talk about EU issues at all. It is quite clear that the Right as the only clear 'yes' party will, of course, pursue a policy aimed at bringing Norway into the EU. And to answer Myrlis' other questions, I can actually put the question back: How will the Workers' Party take responsibility for Norway's entry into the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e241	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a broad review of the status of many EEA and EU issues. I'm going to focus on two of the elements. During the election campaign four years ago, I met an elderly man who told me that he and his wife would now go to Spain and be there until Christmas. And you know what, he said, when we go to the doctor there, we get rid of the props. This is one of the many things we can thank the EEA Agreement for, but for which there is little attention. In the internal market this agreement makes us a full member of, we are treated as Spaniards in Spain, as Frenchmen in France, etc. We can buy an apartment in southern countries, without any kind of divers. We don't have any props at the game. We have the same rights and the same security as the residents of the country we live in, whether we're there as pensioners and live there for a few months a year, or whether we're there as employees or students. This is how the EEA Agreement has made us the Nordics, too, part of this cooperation that has transformed Europe, from a continent of conflicts, conflicts and warriors to a continent full of opportunities, rights and security, across borders that were once an obstacle and somewhere a wall. The EEA Agreement is 15 years old, and it has served us well. Of course, the most important thing is that it has ensured that Norwegian business can compete within the same European market legislation. For a country that is dependent on exporting half of what is being created and that has our European neighbours as the market for 80 pst. of these exports, this is crucial for tens of thousands of jobs. Two industries are excluded, agriculture and the fishing industry. The fishing industry has seen in these 15 years what a disadvantage it is to stand outside. One thing is the customs barriers, just as serious are the salmon cases and the problems these have caused the industry. Today we have the fighting around the mackerel fishing. There is no doubt that these disputes would have been avoided if the fisheries industry had also been covered by the common legislation. The EEA Agreement is also anchored for our participation in the extensive cooperation that has developed within the EU since 1994. It concerns research cooperation, educational cooperation, cooperation on consumer rights, equality, culture, media, etc. A total of 17 programs are included. In addition, we participate in the Schengen cooperation on internal and external security. In recent years, there have been the strongest developments in cooperation, in the police and the judiciary. The last agreement, the Prüm agreement, to which we have joined, is signed in these days. All in all, the scope and depth of our cooperation with the EU, with the EEA Agreement and the Schengen cooperation as a framework, have become so extensive over these 15 years that we are more integrated into EU cooperation than the UK Member State. The review of the EEA Agreement, which is now to be carried out and its implications in all areas of society, will demonstrate the importance of this cooperation for Norway, economic and political. I think many will be surprised, including in the political environment, at the extent to which cooperation has become and how valuable it is to be seen in the various areas. I hope that this can create a more unified basis for discussing our relationship with EU cooperation. If it doesn't move stabbestones in the view of whether the most sensible thing would be, as the Labour Party believes, that we have obtained voting rights through membership of this cooperation, I hope at least that it can create the recognition that we are participating in this, because it is in our own interest. It is a cooperation that has created new and better opportunities for us to work together in many areas – tasks that each country cannot do alone. The Treaty of Lisbon shall enter into force on 1 December. Both in the presentation and in Ine M. Eriksen Soreide's contributions, it was pointed out that there are some implications for how cooperation works. The EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee has asked the European Commission to ensure that proposals for new policies or directives sent to the parliaments of the Member States for so-called proximity checks are also sent to the Stortinget, Everything and Parliament in Liechtenstein. The answer has been that it will be assessed when the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force. I hope we get to that arrangement. This means that here in the Stortinget we have the opportunity to discuss and discuss matters at the same time as they are being discussed in Europe. We need to turn a more active look – also from the Biggest side – into Europe. I have two things that we need to address here in the Grand Duchy, which is over from the treatment of an active European policy: getting an office of the Grand Duchy in Brussels, which helps us in this work, and I think we should also get a delegation to Brussels, as we have to the United Nations. That would be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e272	There is no doubt that Norway’s exclusion gives us considerable problems. The presentation and list of directives by the Minister of Foreign Affairs shows that Norway is lagging behind in the discussion of the directives, once and for all. But the question of the Workers' Party is not what concrete measures are being taken to get ahead of us, the question of the Workers' Party is going on principle: When does the Workers' Party expect the party to take a stand in relation to the EU and be with the Right to get Norway into the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e279	If the representative Gitmark took no interest in reading the Workers' Party's programme, he would know that we have been a long time a party that believes that the best thing for Norway is to become a member of the EU. We have had two referendums where the Labour Party has worked to get a yes, so the problem is not the Labour Party here in the Chamber. Our task – and the task for everyone who thinks we should be a member – is to convince the Norwegian people that it would be wise to vote for the cooperation in which we are so deeply integrated. It is a demanding task, and if the representative Gitmark has proposals for a twist that could lead to a change of attitude in the Norwegian people, then I will listen with great interest and take an active part in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e287	To change our position in the Norwegian people, we need a debate. We need a working party that refers to the positive aspects an EU membership will actually bring to Norway, and we need a working party that can distance itself from its two collaborators, and get away from Soria Moria Is and Soria Moria II's pig-binding of the party's position. I am fully aware of the difference between the position of the Soria Moria Declaration and the Labour Party, but it should be in the Workers' Party's own interest to pursue an active European policy in this discussion. That is what was said when it came to the EU and the Irish approach in this regard: how can you believe that the population should be positive to something you speak negative about the whole week? The same goes back to the Workers' Party. Will the Labour Party not be involved in discussing the EU position? Does the Labour Party not see that change of attitude comes first and foremost by showing the positive aspects of EU membership?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e294	The President is not sure whether «swine-binding» is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e297	I've been in this room since 2001. Then we got the Bondevik I government, and so the Right took part in a government with a suicide paragraph. I believe to have good evidence to say that there has been a change of pace in the discussion about our relationship with the EU and the impact of the EEA Agreement on Norwegian policy since the government change in 2005. All that lies in the Government's active European policy, and which, to the right, helped to strengthen through the treatment here in the United Kingdom, could, of course, be done in government from 2001. Why did not Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen come to Stortinget with his own statements on EEA and EU cooperation? Why was the grant for European information in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget cut, not increased, during that period? There has been a change of pace in the discussion around the EU since we received a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e304	As I asked a question in my reply to the representative Sverre Myrli, I might try to repeat that question. If there is an interest among the representatives of the Labour Party, Sverre Myrli and Svein Roald Hansen included, to get Norway into the EU, is my question: Will the Labour Party take responsibility for the fact that the majority of the Right and Workers Party now have in Stortinget, contributes to Norway sending an EU application?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e311	I believe that all of us who are concerned that we should be a member of the EU from 1972, and at least from 1994, will do the country a bear service by sending an EU application before we know if we have a chance to get a referendum. I think that would be very unfortunate. I also believe that what Mr. Ine M. Eriksen Soreide concluded by saying that the EEA is approaching an expiry date is a dangerous signal to send. It's like throwing out the oil fireplace before we know if we can install the heat pump. So the question is whether the second best thing in our relationship with the EU can continue to last until we know if we can get some of us, among other things. Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and I think the best thing is a risk sport. We could end up with bigger problems than we like to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e321	This first part of the debate shows at least that the Labour Party and the Right have one thing in common, and that is that both of them choose to cut EU opponents as government partners, so that when the Right is in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right is in a way paralyzed in its EU membership position, while the Workers' Party chooses the same in its cooperation with the Centre Party and the Socialist Left. But first let me thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough and good presentation on important EU and EEA issues. I appreciate the foreign minister's emphasis several times in the statement on the importance of Norwegian foreign policy being anchored in a broad majority in the UK. The propulsion part constitutes a quarter of the size and is necessary for such a width. However, we can state that in the Progress Party we mainly share the views of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway is dependent on Europe, but Europe is probably not as dependent on Norway as we often imagine. The population of the 27 EU countries seems to pass 500 million around the same time as the population of Norway passes 5 million. Let me start with the most important, EEA agreement. Without EU membership, the EEA Agreement and Schengen cooperation are of invaluable importance for the Norwegian economy, security and cooperation with the rest of Europe. Two of the three government parties have gone to the elections to terminate the whole EEA Agreement, but we can see that the Workers' Party has completely overrun the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, fortunately. That is good, because in the Progress Party we believe it is not only important to have an EEA agreement, but it should be further developed, improved and expanded. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs' assessment that a continuation of the EEA Agreement will be natural even if Iceland becomes a member of the EU, which it does not indicate for the time being – we are then in a situation where Liechtenstein becomes our only partner in EEA cooperation with the EU. Modernising the EEA Agreement is important. With the entry into force of the Lisbon Agreement, there will be a gap between the EEA Agreement and the Treaty on which EU cooperation is based. This can create both practical and legal problems that could affect Norway both in terms of business and individuals. We cannot expect the EU to take on the job of updating the EEA Agreement. That job must mainly be done by Norway. This is a process that must be started at the earliest opportunity. Iceland is hit by a banking crisis that is not entirely related to the international global financial crisis. Iceland's collapse would have come anyway. There's a lot of attention around the Nordic countries' help to Iceland. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement on Tuesday that this year the Nordic countries have signed – and I repeat, I am signing – loan agreements with Iceland for a total loan amount of approx. EUR 1.8 billion, of which the Norwegian share is EUR 480 million. euro. But there is uncertainty about how this loan agreement has been handled by the Norwegian side. Through the media, we have understood that the loans will not be disbursed until there is some kind of clear signal from the International Monetary Fund, the IMF. The condition for the payment was that the Icelandic State should assume responsibility for the losses of British and Dutch customers on customer relationships in Icelandic banks. Only then would the so-called Icesave Agreement enter into force. And Monday this week, according to ABC News, it was announced that the Icelandic central bank has therefore still not received the money from Norway. At the same time, it was clear from the director of the IMF, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, that no such assumption of responsibility was necessary. He informed that the IMF has already paid out its part of the crisis loan package, which will consist of the Nordic countries’ contributions and the IMF’s contribution. This creates ambiguity. When the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Roger Schjerva, suggested yesterday that Strauss-Kahn is wrong, that doesn't make the situation any easier. It would therefore be reassuring if the Foreign Minister could take advantage of the occasion he has here today to clarify the following: Has Norway paid out its part of the crisis loan to Iceland? In case this isn't done, why not? And what role has the IMF played in this regard? It is also very positive that Norway is among the main contributors in terms of assistance to Latvia. The Progress Party agrees that financial assistance and loans resulting from the financial crisis should focus on our nearest neighbouring country. For the Baltic, it's important to get involved in Nordic cooperation, especially here. This represents an important security for Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania together with their membership of NATO and the EU. Then turn to climate. It's probably where the Progress Party and the Government disagree most. But it seems that the Progress Party and the Government agree on something in climate policy, for example. that it is unwise for Norway to set targets or requirements which give Norwegian industry significantly more stringent conditions than the requirements and conditions which are equivalent to and apply to EU enterprises. Equally objective conditions of competition must exist between EU enterprises and Norway. However, it is important to clarify the possible impact on trade legislation of different measures that will result from a future climate agreement. In addition, the Progress Party will recommend that products legally negotiable in the EU should also be exported to and sold in Norway. Finally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not irritated the Progress Party with his European statement, rather on the contrary. Some of us have simply taken the trouble to read the party programmes to the two smallest government parties, and we can see that the Progress Party is actually closer to the Government's EU policy than the Workers' Party's two cooperation parties do. We should be happy about that, because that is good for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e352	Peter N. Myhre of the Progress Party said that he largely agreed with the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement. The representative Myhre also stated that an EEA agreement was important, but had to be further developed and developed. At the same time, the Progress Party, both in its programme and through media redundancies, also states that the EU case is too important for the party to recommend a clear position. So to that, the question is too important for the Progress Party. One issue that arises internationally is that of the representative Myhre – the climate debate. The EU is addressing this and has offensive climate targets for well over 400 million people. Clearly, the EU has politicians who dare to lead the way and who dare to go ahead. But my question to the Progress Party today is simply: are there any other political issues that are too important for the Progress Party to have an opinion about them?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e357	The Progress Party actually took a position on the EU issue in connection with the 1994 referendum and recommended that the Norwegian people vote in favour of Norwegian EU membership. However, the issue of EU membership, together with the question of republic and monarchy, is the only issues that will actually be decided by the people in a referendum and not in this Chamber. Formal only: after a referendum, the Stortinget will take a decision on the EU issue – the issue of membership. This must be the answer to the question from the representative Gustavsen. I want to say that these are the two questions decided by referendum, and we respect the referendum results. We will also respect the outcome of any new referendum on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e364	It's always nice to listen to the Progress Party when they talk about Europe because you get a little different answers depending on who's talking. I was in a debate in the election campaign where the fifth candidate of the Oslo Progress Party was present, and I asked him, ‘What are you going to talk for today?’ He said, ‘Yes, today I’m going to speak for Norwegian membership of the EU.’ Then I asked, ‘What would the answer be if we got the fourth candidate?’ Then he said, ‘No, she would speak against Norwegian membership of the EU.’ So at least it’s very liberal in the Oslo Progress Party. This is the most important issue in Norwegian foreign policy. The Progress Party is able to have a good and clear opinion on, for example: tolls, but the most important issue in Norwegian foreign policy is therefore not capable of taking a decision on the Advance Party. Will it be that the Lisbon Treaty – which helps to marginalise Norway even more than it is today, and helps to increase the democratic deficit that Norway has in relation to Europe – will help the Progress Party finally to decide on the EU issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e372	The Progress Party has programmed that we respect the people in elections on EU issues. It is therefore the case in the Progress Party programme that our representatives in elected bodies are asked to be free on the issue of EU membership. But of course, the Progress Party has a position on the EU issue – membership. The position is that if Norway is to become a member of the EU, it will be done as a result of a decision on it by the people in elections. The fact that the Progress Party has different politicians who belong to different camps in this debate, I see as an advantage. I myself am the Vice-Chairman of the department of the European Movement in Groruddalen. Others are members of No to the EU. We must recommend our own position to the voters, and respect their choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e377	Now the representative Myhre said what he'll work for if there's a new referendum, and it's nice. In his statement, he said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not addressed the Progress Party with his statement – but it is not easy to tease a party that, at least in the party programme, does not take a stand on the outcome of a referendum they will be working for. But Peter N. Myhre underlined in his contribution the importance of the EEA Agreement, saying that it had to be modernised and further developed, and that a process of updating it should be initiated as soon as possible. I wonder, what's he thinking about? It's a dynamic appointment that's actually being updated continuously. It is an agreement on access to the internal market, which has thus widened as a ring in the water and has given us anchoring or input into other cooperation projects launched by EU countries. So what's he thinking especially about with this update?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e382	As I said in my first post, it is primarily the Lisbon Agreement that poses major challenges for the continuation of the Norwegian EEA Agreement. This clearly means that some significant changes need to be made – the world is moving on. It is therefore important that the EEA Agreement be modernised and continued in all areas. With regard to the first part of the question of the EU position of the Progress Party, I have already said a lot about it, and I do not think the Progress Party has any major problems with its position on the membership issue than the Labour Party has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e392	I also thank the Minister for a broad and interesting orientation. St.meld. No 23 for 2005–2006, on the implementation of European policy, based on the experience gained, was a step in the right direction in relation to a stronger involvement of national Parliaments. But there is still much to be done to improve the participation of Storting in such a comprehensive agreement as the EEA Agreement. The fact that the Minister of Foreign Affairs now announces that the Government will update the content of the big message, and that it will continue to be in contact with the Stortinget, I believe that, given this, there is a stronger involvement and involvement of the national parliament. It is important that the Storting should arrive early and have an assessment of the rules to be introduced in Norway, if appropriate. The statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed that the EEA Agreement ensures predictability. That is probably true with regard to the framework of trade in goods, and perhaps also trade in services. In the case of other conditions, such as: new interpretations by the European Commission and the European Court of Justice regarding the understanding of the free movement of capital and labour will bring about rapid surprises. Here is an indication of how the EEA Agreement intervened against the fall-back scheme, the acquisition law that replaced the industrial concession law and the rules on ownership of financial institutions. All of these schemes were consistent with how the EEA Agreement was perceived when it was approved by the majority in 1992. It was then an agreement that would ensure that Norwegian law did not treat foreigners differently from its own citizens. It was the free flow across the borders that was to be secured. Eventually, the search light is also directed towards purely domestic schemes. If the arrangements somehow affect the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour also within Norway, they shall be eliminated. This is what the Bondevik II Government announced in its Annual Report on the EEA Agreement, St. meld. No 27 for 2001-2002, referred to as developments in the understanding of the EEA Agreement. It's a development that was anything but predictable. SV is very pleased that we are now receiving a longer-term review of the EEA Agreement in line with the adoption of its work programme in our country meeting. It is important to have knowledge and a debate on the importance of the EEA Agreement in Norway. The EEA Agreement has become a practice in Norwegian policy. It is also increasingly criticised by many of those who wanted the agreement in 1992. It is claimed that, on the one hand, the EEA means that we are a member of the EU without voting rights; we need to find out in everything that the EU decides, without having to participate in the decision-making process. On the other hand, it is claimed that the agreement is becoming less and less valuable because the EU is developing policies in more and more areas not covered by the EEA Agreement. At the same time, the flow of EEA matters is becoming increasingly complex and the impact of the EEA Agreement is becoming more and more apparent in more areas. The ESA monitoring in Brussels is becoming more and more closely involved and is forcing Norwegian authorities to readjust on a case-by-case basis where one believed that good intentions, social concerns and democratic decisions could be based, cf. some of the matters that I mentioned earlier in the article. It is unclear how the EEA Agreement affects us, what consequences it has in many areas. We look forward to a review of the right of reservation, a presentation of which new areas were included in the agreement that were not foreseen 15 years ago, and not least in which areas Norway has opposed the EU and won. We look forward to an open process and fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that an investigation of course does not remove the fundamental disagreement that exists, about Norwegian EU membership and the view of the EU. But we can provide evidence-based information and research, and then hopefully it will strengthen public information and give a democratic debate on what Norway is best served with in the future. I also note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not conceal the different interests of Norway and the EU in a number of cases. I can then mention the EU Cellulose Regulation and the conflict over mackerel fishing, which was mentioned in the Foreign Minister's presentation. Fortunately, the government platform is aware that Norway should assert its national interests towards the EU and use the necessary instruments. Finally, I would like to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that the new G20 group has no legitimacy that can match the UN and the UN system – and that it can quickly become a tool for the rule of the world by the greatest powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e414	In the SV’s work programme for the period 2009–2013, the lot is called upon to terminate the EEA Agreement. This will reduce market access for a number of products and exports from Norway, and the closure of businesses in particular in industry. This will lead to the disappearance of tens of thousands of jobs. How will SV as a government party defend such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e421	The representative asks how we, as a government party, will defend it. As a government party, we have now agreed to have a thorough review of the EEA Agreement. So we're going to have a review and a discussion of the EEA Agreement. SV's primary position is that the disadvantages of EEA membership are greater than the benefits. That is why we have said that we want an investigation of the EEA Agreement and that we want primarily to sign out while negotiating with the EU for another agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e426	The major international challenges can only be met through internationally committed cooperation. I think the party SV on the paper might also agree with that. I have registered that the government council Erik Solheim has expressed a great hope – perhaps the last one to hope for it – that there will be a binding climate agreement in Copenhagen. But the most committed international cooperation the world has seen is the EU. I would like to ask you: since SV is so against both the EEA Agreement and Norwegian participation in EU cooperation in full, what kind of binding international cooperation in Europe is it SV wants and wants Norway to participate in – i.e. committed international cooperation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e433	Compulsory cooperation is important. It can be done without being in a supranational union. In addition to various commitments in Europe, SV believes that it is important that we have committed global cooperation. We want to see the world as a whole, not just a European area, as the EU and the EEA Agreement involve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e438	According to its programme, the Socialist Left Party in Norway will terminate the EEA Agreement. The Danish Socialist People's Party is a hot European supporter and strongly supports the overall business idea of the European Union. What is the Danish Socialist People's Party not understood as the Socialist Left Party in Norway has understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e444	Fortunately, there is also cross-border disagreement between sister parties, as there is internal disagreement within parties in Norway. With regard to the difference between Denmark and Norway, there are some who are obvious. In particular, Norway has a different geographical area, where it has been difficult to pursue a coherent Norwegian policy, and where we need to take rural areas into account in many of our political challenges. We see that these are challenges in relation to EU legislation and EEA legislation, which we fear will be weakened by any future EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e451	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e454	At the time of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, there were far less common rules and policies for the internal market of the European Union than we have today. The size assumed that the veto was a real safety valve for Norway. Today, we know that the EEA Agreement is far more extensive than anyone expected, and that the willingness to use the veto law has never been present before the political majority in this Chamber. I record that representatives, who are also sitting here now, from the Right have said that the party may be willing to use the veto right against the Data Storage Directive. In this case, the right of veto is used for the first time, as it was said to be used, namely that a democratic majority in this Chamber in Norway opposes the introduction of a policy that the majority does not want. Another outcome in this matter will again reflect the democratic constraints of the EEA Agreement. A research-based, broad-based public body will now be set up to carry out a thorough and broad review of the EEA Agreement and the consequences of the agreement in all social areas. The investigation shall end in a wholesale notification. It is good that we now have a broad process that will go through the various aspects of the EEA Agreement and contribute to a new and informative debate on the EEA Agreement. This year some of us celebrate that it is 15 years since Norway said no to membership of the European Union. Based on discussions we have had since on EU directives, it is worth noting that since 1994, the number of EU directives has increased several times that of those who have come to Norway through the EEA Agreement. The difference between a Norwegian integration into the European Union and the EEA has only increased since the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. For those who dream of integrating Norway into something that is becoming more and more a European Federation, the Treaty of Lisbon is good news. For others, it strengthens our resistance. Massive political energy, legitimacy and time have been invested in the constitutional process almost throughout the last decade. Since the contested draft constitution had to be presented in 2005, the U.D. states that among ‘the elements that have been deleted are primarily the symbolism that could give association to the EU as a supranational state formation’. In other words, references to the EU flag, the EU anthem and the EU motto have been withdrawn. The rest provide clear supranational leadership. The ultimate importance of the Treaty of Lisbon depends on the actions of the most powerful actors, but it provides a constitutional basis for something similar to a state formation. Power is concentrated on the largest countries, and decisions in several policy areas are to be taken by a majority. In particular, two pages are highlighted in the Norwegian debate. The European Parliament and the national parliaments are getting more power, it is said. The EU's only elected assembly has finally achieved the real right to participate in the adoption of laws! Fewer points out that power must continue to be shared with the Council, where the Heads of State or Government of the European Union sit. Even fewer mention that in the Council the voting rules are arranged according to the population. Germany and France double their votes in the legislative Council of the European Union, while Denmark and Sweden reduce their votes. Furthermore, it is said that national Parliaments are given more power as ‘guards of the principle of subsidiarity’. National elected representatives have the right to negotiate a national majority if they believe that a legislative proposal from the Commission is in breach of the objective of taking laws at the lowest possible level. Then they have to go free in the other 26 parliaments and get half of them. Only then can a so-called orange card be given, so that the proposal has to be reconsidered, and 55 pst. by the Ministers of the Council of the European Union, or by a majority of the European Parliament, may put an end to the proposal. All of this has to happen in eight weeks. To me as a magnification representative, the card game appears a bit absurd. Because democracy takes time. So it's not about talking on behalf of a majority of nations, it's about getting half of Europe's nations to speak with one voice in eight hectic weeks. So it remains to be seen to what extent national parliaments will use their new ‘guardian role’. There are a lot of legal drafts coming from the Commission, and a response deadline of eight weeks is very short. I think the card game serves the same purpose as removing the symbolism associated with federal state formation. It shall create a skin of legitimacy. The centre party fears that, in practice, a more federal Europe weakens the rule of the people and that an increasingly strong Brussels will increase the distance between the elite and the people, between those who rule and those who are being ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e477	It opens for cord change
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e480	The Central Party has also opted to terminate the EEA Agreement. My question to Mr Vedum's representative is: When the EEA Agreement is 15 years old, and during the 15 years we have seen that the number of EU members has almost doubled, and that most of Europe belongs to the EU or the EEA system, does the representative Mr Vedum agree that today the EEA Agreement is more important and more important to Norway than it was in the mid-1990s when it was adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e485	Having a good and secure trade agreement with the EU and other European countries is crucial for Norway. It is important to have predictability for Norwegian business – for Norwegian operators. But we have thought that the EEA Agreement is not the best possible agreement, we have wanted to look at that agreement and point to the previous free trade agreement. We are pleased that an EEA investigation is now under way. Then we'll have a new discussion base, and then we'll figure out where to go. But we believe that today's agreement has too many disadvantages compared to the benefits it gives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e490	Selling, mackerel, data storage, postal services – the willingness of the Centre to discuss these directives and changes in EU structure is significant, and it is affordable. The problem with all these issues is that the Central Party and the Government come forward with their discussion after the EU has taken its decisions. That means that what we receive from the EU is what the EU has already adopted, and we are cut off from having influence on matters. The answer to the Central Party is to use the veto right when you disagree, which is essentially what you are. Then the question becomes the Center Party: How often do you have to take the veto ghost out of the closet before the Center Party actually gets the government to use it? When can the Storting expect us to see the consequences of possibly using the veto right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e497	It surprises me that a representative who has been sitting on Stortinget for eight years can ask such a question – he must know the story relatively badly. One can look at all the EU directives that go through the Storting without any debate, which are sensible adaptations for Norway. But then there are some things in which we see that it has so far-reaching consequences that we believe that we should use our negotiated opportunity to say no and veto. Now it is such a case, in relation to the Data Storage Directive, and I have noticed that several representatives from the Right have also said that they do not want to introduce the Data Storage Directive, and want to veto it. Once an opportunity has been negotiated for Norway, I believe that as a national parliament we should use the opportunity that the EEA Agreement gives us to veto. However, in most cases we believe that it is less problematic, that in many cases the implementation of the directives is also an advantage. However, in this case and in a number of other cases, we believe that we should use our democratic right to say no when the majority in this Chamber wants a policy different from that proposed by the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e502	In my eight years at Stortinget, the Center Party has wanted to use the veto right in a significant number of cases. It has been a wish in all cases that has emerged after the European Parliament has taken its decisions. In other words, we are cut off from the possibility of exerting influence in any way other than using the veto right. The government has not yet come to Stortinget with the consequences in one case, and the Right has asked 14 very timely questions to the Government, on which we expect good answers before we can conclude. I see that the Senterpartie in the case after case is agreeing to conclude before you know the consequences of any use of the veto right. I think that's extremely problematic, that you're involved in applying Norway, something you don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e507	With regard to the Data Storage Directive, which is now the big issue, and where the great excitement of the seventh and last is about what the Right is going to fall on, a process is now being launched in the Government, in a very common way, where the proposal is being sent to the hearing, and we are getting a recording. However, the Data Storage Directive is a relatively transparent directive, into which it is possible to go, look at the consequences and look at the principal aspects of increased use of surveillance – whether you want to use it for monitoring or not. The centre party does not want that, in terms of privacy, and I have also noticed that many representatives in the Right believe, based on a principle approach to privacy. In some cases, you have to dry up to be in principle, dry to stand by your positions, and then you have to use the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement, precisely by negotiating a veto right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e516	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a – as usual – very tidy and good account of important EU and EEA issues, at a time when a lot is happening both in Europe and in the world, in economic and political terms. I would like to comment here on some of the issues raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Let me first express my full support for the Foreign Minister's emphasis that the EEA Agreement, the main element of Norway's relationship with the EU, ensures predictability and non-discrimination for enterprises in a way that is entirely central to jobs across the country. This is crucial for the Christian People's Party's support for the agreement. As the former EU ambassador to Norway and Iceland, Gerhard Sabathil, said a few years ago: there are no economic reasons why Norway should become a member of the EU. He's right about that. The reason is the EEA Agreement and its market access to our main export markets. Through the EEA, we are also involved in the EU's most important clearly peace and solidarity project. The internal market reduces barriers to trade and facilitates cross-border contact, in a way that creates greater understanding between countries and makes conflict more costly and less likely. Research shows that the internal market has helped to increase growth in the southern and eastern European countries. The parts that are not covered by the EEA, such as the EU's agricultural policy, fisheries policy and rural policy, cannot show the same good results in creating growth and welfare opportunities for the poorest Member States of the EU. The EEA Agreement is not perfect, but it is an important national compromise, which has broad support for the people. The Christian People's Party welcomes the investigation into the EEA. We believe it will show that the EEA in general has served Norway well. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his emphasis on setting up a ‘wide’ and ‘research-based’ sample, which should not look at alternatives to the EEA. That, I think, is wise, because a review of alternatives could quickly become less ‘research-based’ and because it is difficult to claim to be a popular requirement to explore alternatives to the EEA. In the case of Directive cases, there was relatively little new in the foreign minister’s presentation. The Christian People's Party supports the Government that there is a need for a thorough and critical review of the impact of the Postal Directive set up against the possibility of maintaining a good postal service throughout the country. As far as the Health Directive is concerned, a waiting period for treatment in the EU Health Council is required. In my view, the Data Storage Directive could be clarified in more detail in the presentation. This is a fundamental issue that I think many people are interested in hearing more about from the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Christian People's Party has chosen to let privacy considerations go ahead of vague targets of combating crime in this matter. We cannot help making all the citizens of Norway suspect surveillance objects. With the information available, I cannot understand that our otherwise rational foreign minister can reason in any other way. I would therefore challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain what is fundamentally beneficial in this directive. The Christian People's Party is also concerned about the EU's behaviour in the massacre. The EU has closed Norwegian fishermen out of mackerel fishing in their zone without notice and giving reasons, thus setting aside the agreement between Norway and the EU. The Christian People's Party believes that this is so serious that Norway needs to consider using all instruments to change the EU's vision, including shutting down EU boats from Norwegian zones. In the climate field, I think everyone agrees that the EU is doing a lot of good and is an important global player. That is precisely why I believe that many people were disappointed that the EU was unable to agree on how much the Union would put on the table in climate adaptation financing measures in developing countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is therefore entitled to Norway’s more offensive positions towards the Copenhagen meeting than the EU has. Finally, let me briefly say that Norway is a major contributor to the EU through the EEA Financial Mechanism. That is good, although these schemes may have a more uncertain balancing effect than the internal market has. However, according to a fair distribution, Norway’s contribution is already very high. I think it's important that Norway engages in cooperation on development and defrosting in the part of the world we're part of, but we shouldn't let ourselves be exposed to anything that might remind us of extortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e542	I too would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his presentation. In the wake of the Lisbon Treaty, we see the outlines of a new and probably more powerful EU. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, there are relatively large changes in the EU, both institutionally and politically. This is particularly true in the field of foreign policy. On behalf of the Left, I would like to express the hope that, in the coming time, we will see a better coordinated foreign policy, which will make the EU a more effective driver of human rights, dialogue and reconciliation in the world. In addition, I hope that the Treaty of Lisbon will help to reduce the democratic deficit in the EU. In this way, the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon offers great opportunities. At the same time, the Treaty also poses challenges for Norway. For example, a lot of people are referring to: that it may be even more difficult to be heard in Brussels. So far, our influence on the EU has been, primarily through the Commission, which has been discussed by many people here. However, its influence has been weakened in favour of the EU Parliament, national parliaments and new supervisory bodies and agencies with supranational powers. It should therefore be an objective to change and not least increase Norwegian influence over the EU. This means, among other things: that we need to strengthen our contact with the European Parliament and that contacts will often go through the parties in Parliament and in the European Parliament. In the past, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has expressed a positive interest in involving the Stortinget to a greater extent in the work towards Parliament, and the Left welcomes this, as we have close contact with our sister parties in Europe. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also addressed several privacy issues in his presentation. I record that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not want to problematize privacy and the Prüm agreement on police cooperation. Even I would not have expressed myself equally confident that the interests of privacy are ‘well-managed’. I would remind you that the Data Protection Authority has been very critical of the Prüm Code, which they consider to have several contentious aspects, including: in the case of criteria for obtaining DNA. In the case of the Data Storage Directive, the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also particularly clear. It is well known that the government parties have different views on this directive, but I would like the Council of State to adopt a more general approach to the challenge of the directive than just to refer to the forthcoming issue in Stortinget, which we are planning to receive over Christmas. Based on the readings of the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party concerning the directive recently, I do not feel confident that privacy is what the Workers' Party is most concerned about. I also miss a more thorough review of how the Minister of Foreign Affairs sees Norway's role against the Copenhagen climate summit. The Foreign Minister was content to commend the Swedish Presidency for its efforts and said little about Norway's contribution to this work. The red-green government has justly done some good in the area of the environment – I am thinking in particular of the climate agreement – but on a number of occasions has also demonstrated the reluctance to bet vigorously, including. in the field of renewable energy. For the Left, it is essential that Norway assumes greater responsibilities in international climate action. During the debate on the throne on 12 October, what would be Norway's position and plan in front of the climate negotiations in Copenhagen was requested by the government to inform the Stortinget about the Norwegian position in the context of the climate negotiations. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Helga Pedersen, confirmed that this would be done by the Government. It is the prime responsibility of the Minister for the Environment, but I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he sees the value of bringing up a broad dialogue with the Storting in this important matter, as we have so far had good experience with, among other things. through the climate agreement. Finally, as a member of a knowledge party, I noticed the Foreign Minister's emphasis on the EU's new knowledge policy. When this area is also enshrined in the Treaty as a result of the Lisbon process, we can expect an expanded EU knowledge effort, which will also be reflected in the policies of the respective national authorities. In the view of the Left, this represents a significant challenge for the red-green government. With its repeated research and higher education rest cuts, Norway will slow down even further, and it does not want the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e563	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e566	The representative Borghild Tende started his post, as I understood it, by stressing the international perspective of the Left and what goes on democracy and influence. So the representative continued with a problematisation, especially in relation to privacy and data retention. It makes me ask the following questions to the representative Tende: In a globalised world where Norway is very integrated, not just with the EU, but really with the rest of the world, does the Left consider that there is a need for international data storage rules at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e571	I thank you for the question about the Data Storage Directive. I raised this up because it is an important issue for Norway, and privacy is an important issue for Norwegian citizens. The left is for the use of the veto in connection with the Data Storage Directive. I record that the Workers' Party is not so concerned about this, as I also said in my post, and that is, in most of the cases where privacy is being pressed, you have good intentions. But the Data Storage Directive is definitely important for the Left, and we are in favour of veto in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e578	I think we have registered that the Left has a great commitment to privacy in general, and also in the context of the Data Storage Directive. But the question from the representative Gustavsen was precisely about privacy, and of course the other reasons, for example. consideration by the police in the investigation of serious matters, sees the need for a common international regulatory framework. Because that is what we want to stand out of, if Norway were to make a reservation against the Data Storage Directive. Then we will be one of the Schengen countries that wants to have different rules, and we have an example of an online investigation, where very short storage time on IP addresses in Norway led to Norwegian police not being able to follow up tracks from Italy. So the question is: does the Left want common international rules, or does it believe that Norway can have its own rules that are different from those of neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e583	I thank you for that question too, and I was involved in the Prüm cooperation. I'm surprised that no more in this room have been involved, and I don't see the challenges we're facing. The left is not against, but we note that the Data Protection Authority is also critical of the Prüm Code. The left is a data protection party, we are committed to respecting human rights and privacy, and that is why we have the position we have on the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e588	Neither Svein Roald Hansen nor I have received an answer, and it must be possible to answer yes or no to such a question. Does the Left consider yes or no to the need for international rules on privacy and traffic data storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e593	Now you have pressured me in that area, and I understand that the Workers' Party does not see the danger signals we see in the Left – and does not see the importance of data protection. I'm recording that the Workers' Party doesn't see at all. You're willing to do anything in the surveillance area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e601	I want to turn around in the order of what I was going to say, and start with the last post, which is roughly, and which I'm taking away from: it's said that the Workers' Party does not take into account privacy. This matter depends on whether we are able to understand the balance between privacy in relation to protecting ourselves as individuals from undue transparency and protecting ourselves as individuals from crime. Then there are answers that are oblique in one direction or another, bad guides. I agree with the two representatives that the Left does not respond to this. One of the challenges facing the Data Storage Directive is Norway, which is connected to a market in which the free movement of goods, services and communications and new communications technologies is to be the only one of 30 countries that says that we have different rules to follow on that side of the fight against crime. So I want to praise the Right, who has asked 14 good questions to the Government, and which illustrates an important aspect of this matter, namely that very important aspects of this are to be decided by the State itself – Norway, the Stortinget, the Government. This applies to how to implement and adapt this national situation, for example: storage of data from six to twenty-four months, the rules to be applied for access, judicial review for access, what to do to protect against hacking, etc. That is the nuanced debate we have to take. Then they are categorically rejecting privacy and saying that the police will get everything they ask on a dangerous trail, and those who categorically say that privacy is one for, everything that goes on fighting crime, is also on a dangerous trail. Because it is also privacy to protect people from what the network and data communications and communication technologies can provide. So I've commented on it. Then I also have respect for those who work for Norwegian EU membership. I've had that vision myself. The right said in the election campaign that the EU was more important than government cooperation. I note that they got right the last time, they didn't come into government, but when the EU is more important, I'm not sure that the strategy they are putting forward is the right one when they say here in the Stortinget: Will the Labour Party be with the Right to the EU? Had it been so well! And when the representative Eriksen Soreide, head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, says that the Right and Labour Party should now adopt by a majority here that we should seek membership, it is not exactly as the Norwegian society evolves, and hardly the way to influence the Norwegian people in a way that is desirable. So I would warn you not to discuss the EEA Agreement, which is what we have today as the basis, when the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee also says that this agreement is about to expire. I don't think it's our job to speak such a language. We have, as the representative Myhre also had an interest in being the country that makes sure that the agreement is relevant, up-to-date and serves our interests. The EEA Agreement is kept up to date, as the representative Svein Roald Hansen said, through the decisions taken and entered into Norwegian law. And then Norway, together with the European Commission and the EU countries, should ensure the functioning of the institutions, it should be so that there were changes on our side. With regard to the financial market and EU rules, we have made our views known to the EU about the limit on deposits. The Minister of Finance will have a new occasion on 3 December when he meets his colleagues. We're using the channels that we have there. In the case of Iceland and Nordic loans, I can tell the representative Myhre that it is now available for Iceland to draw on Norwegian loans. It has been so for the Nordic countries that we have made a substantial resource available, with longer downtime than the IMF rules. But it was all connected so that this was made available when the IMF could make its decision. The letter from the IMF leader, Strauss-Kahn, can be interpreted both ways: Is it such that one has held back the other? But the reality is that this package to Iceland was ready when the IMF had dealt with it at its board meeting. It happened on 28 October, and that's when it comes to it. With regard to Norway's view on climate, as the representative Tenden asked, I would like to refer to my contribution to the EEA Council earlier this week. There I have gone through very thorough Norway's recordings. I don't have time to do that in this short article. However, in the dialogue with the EU, we have set out the elements of the climate agreement and the other things Norway is doing, so it is also clearly communicated. Back to where I started, about the Data Storage Directive. So there's going to be a consultation in a short time. It will take its usual three months of consultation, and then the government will sum up and bring a case to the Stortinget in the usual way. Then I record that the debate is going, and I think it's good, and that there are recordings from many different teams. I would just like to reiterate that I believe the need for that debate is to be able to balance the two very important considerations, which are protection against untimely transparency and protection against gross crime. We have a responsibility for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e621	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e624	It was interesting to register the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the outset when it came to the Data Storage Directive. I'm a little unsure whether it was aggression or involvement. I'm very concerned that there are actually shades here. But I don't think exactly that the Foreign Minister adds that the nuances are the important thing. I also believe, and I want to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that even today, data is stored. Police have great opportunities to fight crime even without the introduction of the Data Storage Directive. The Foreign Minister must agree with that. Or does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it is necessary to have such a type of data storage directive in order to combat crime? Then I want to challenge the foreign minister at Posten Norway, because Mejdell in Posten Norway has said that you want to have full competition also on postal services below 50 grams. I feel that the Foreign Minister and the Government are very clear that they want to postpone this, while those who are going to run it want to get it started immediately, so that they can compete and be prepared when the EU opens up fully, in 2010, or 2013, when this is done. I would like a comment from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e631	I can confirm that it's commitment and not aggression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e636	That's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e641	But it's a measured time, and I want to be told what to say. The Postal Directive will be examined, and we will use the deadlines we have received. Today, data is stored, yes. But it is that today the police have very easy access to the data that the telecommunications operators have stored for a few months. The Minister of Justice has suggested that there should be judicial control in this area in order to intensify it. There is one field that we have to decide on. Then I have to say that I am surprised that the Progress Party, which presents itself as the law and order party, has hoped for some kind of picture of the monitoring directive. So it's not surveillance. There's something happening in real time. This is about the transparency of traffic data if the police have grounds for suspecting, and – as the Minister of Justice suggested – judicial control is required. But these things we can discuss: How long is it to be stored? What is control? What are we going to do for transparency? But it surprises me, once again, this sloping security and that you don't see when all the police services in Norway are in favour of this and 27 countries have introduced it, what can be the bottom of that Norway as the only country not. There will be a hole in the fight against crime that we must at least problematize.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e652	It could be tempting to start by saying that 27 countries have not implemented the Data Storage Directive and that there is already an internal audit in the EU. But I'm not going to do that. What I'm going to do is, first of all, comment on the fact that we're talking about the EEA Agreement. I do not agree with that. It must be possible to have a debate on the different aspects of the EEA Agreement, including the challenges we are now facing in the context of the Treaty of Lisbon, which makes the EU more democratic, but which increases the democratic deficit in Norway. I want to ask about the Energy Services Directive, which is an important directive for Norway, because it contains important tools to improve energy efficiency. The question is when to implement it. I also want to shift towards active European policies, which we agree are important. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he believes it was a wise decision to bring home Norway's only national expert in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e661	I have been a spokesperson for four years for debate. I have promoted active European policies. And as I said, I did a lot of what the Right could do the four years they had the Secretary of State, so we've got it going. Now we're going to have an investigation and review. However, there is a nuance between debate on European policy and standing here on the pulpit of the Great Britain and saying that it is about to go out on date. For something that goes out to date, milk in the refrigerator, for example, is not very good after that date. And hinting at that for the EEA Agreement, I think I'm stupid and unlucky for all those who depend on their job, their research, their rights, their passports, etc. as a result of the agreement. As far as the Energy Services Directive is concerned, I will come back and inform you more thoroughly about it. We are now going through the whole energy package from the EU, what is relevant, and what we need to implement. - Now I just missed the last point...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e672	National expert.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e677	National expert, yes. As I said, we cannot judge the efforts of the European Parliament on the basis of one national expert, but we must assess whether we should have a different presence in the European Parliament in addition to everything we do through the EU delegation, and in addition to what the political parties do. It is a matter we must have for ongoing evaluation all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e682	I also have a when-question. I just want to start by saying that this is the first time I have heard the EEA agreement being compared to milk in the refrigerator. In any case, many of us are left with the impression that the foreign minister and representatives of the Workers' Party, at least, and the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party see a general revision of the EEA Agreement. Then my question is, When will such a case be put before the Stortinge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e687	I see that milk is perhaps an inappropriate comparison as the agricultural area is excluded from the EEA Agreement! But as happy as I'm in milk, it's a compliment to the agreement. There's no general audit we're adding up to. There is a review of the functioning of this comprehensive agreement for 15 years. Because it is not just the agreement as such, and Schengen, it is very much different that has come as a result of cooperation. I believe that this hall is well lit. We get it through an investigation into the government, and then there's a big message here. So the Storting will consider: Is this what we want? Does it work properly? Are there things we want to make of changes in what's running? It is because this agreement is so extensive and special because the particular intake of Norway, which we take over without having been involved in preparing decisions, is that it is natural to take the overall review. But some general audit I don't think we're adding up, because the essence of the EEA Agreement is all that this room has implemented, the directive directive for the directive for the directive, for 15 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e697	Sick if we are not going to apply for EU membership for the next four-year period, it must be allowed to arrest EU workers in the Labour Party for trying to push the Right in front of them as a reason not to take the EU debate. It must also be allowed in this room when we have this discussion, to discuss what are problematic aspects of the EEA Agreement and Norway’s relationship with the EU. Especially because we have now asked for, and get, an investigation into Norway's relationship with the EEA, it is clear that the relationship we have is not entirely unproblematic. At the end of his last reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to many of the aspects that have just made Norway’s relationship with the EU through the EEA to a question we still have to discuss. It's really almost to seduce the population if we don't dare take those debates and those discussions. Seeing that Norway wants to continue the EEA Agreement, we are not guaranteed that the EU wants to continue the agreement under the same conditions, which would be beneficial to Norway. The question is: what will the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs do to ensure that Norway does not lose important influence in Europe, now that the EU is moving faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e706	Until the last representative said, I agree with everything. Of course, it's allowed to discuss – everything is allowed to discuss, based on what this hall has adopted. We should discuss the EEA Agreement and we should discuss it critically. I totally agree with that. The arrangement in my statement is to lay the groundwork for that. My point earlier was not to push right in front of it, but I do not think that the Labour Party's road or Norway's road to the EU is going via the Right, along with the Right. That the Right Party and the Labour Party can agree on certain points is now okay enough, but on two previous occasions we have seen that it was not enough. Then there is a question of continuing the EEA Agreement. I think that agreement stands as long as both parties have a common interest in it. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, then has to come up with the argument that the EU should say that they are interested in repealing an agreement that ensures predictability and equal treatment of EU businesses into Norway – that is, the other side of the coin – and the criterion that Norway is a stable, long-term energy supplier within what is currently common rules in Europe. I don't see it in the horizon, and that's why I'm not particularly afraid of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e715	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e718	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for an interesting and good presentation related to the EU and EEA issues that were held in this room earlier this week. Although Norway is not a member of the EU, and although fish and agricultural products are not part of the EEA Agreement, it is evident that Norway’s relationship with the EU has a significant impact on these fields. The EU is, after all, our largest trading partner in very many areas. It brings me to a few of the points I want to address in my post, which the Foreign Minister was also involved in his presentation. Initially, I will be allowed to say that after the Lisbon Treaty now appears to be being implemented and implemented well from 1 December this year, there is every reason to believe that the European Parliament will become much more important. In other words, it will also be more important for Norway and Norwegian politicians to get into processes more quickly in order to influence the results we want to achieve for Norway. One of the examples I want to use here, and that shows that we may not always have caught up with signals in time to get something done about the matter, is related to the regulation on trade in sales and sales products. Norway is significantly affected if it is now fully implemented. We will then be able to experience that the Norwegian self-growth industry is not allowed to market sales and cell products throughout the EU. The problem could be even bigger. Although Norway has filed a complaint against the WTO – it has Canada, too, if I don't remember completely wrong – we can have a big problem if we don't get along. I was on the Internet and took out the last print from the EU magazine, linked to the regulation of 16 September 2009 on the trade in cell products. It defines the EU itself, as it says in the text, that this is EEA-relevant. It is stated in the document and in the regulation. Thus, this case could have major consequences for Norway if we do not win with the WTO complaint that we have sent in. I hope that the focus is on this and that we spend considerable resources and time in this matter, so that we can’t suddenly experience – if Norway’s complaint does not lead – that we have to apply this also for Norway. That would be a disaster for the industry, and I expect you to find other ways to do it. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned with the situation of mackerel fishing that we have had this year, where Norwegian fishermen were thrown out of the EU zone and were not allowed – despite a clear agreement in my opinion – to fish the remaining part of the mackerel quota in the EU zone, as it says in the agreement with the EU. This is a major problem, because it allows Norway to lose large export revenues just at this catch, which we have now missed. This cannot continue. I hope that the Government will bring this forward in the context of the other negotiations that are now taking place. We are now holding, among other things. with the bilateral negotiations related to cod in exchange with other fish with the EU. I expect that both the case of the Selenium Regulation and the case of mackerel fishing will be the subject of negotiations here, and that the EU will also have to take part in a reduction in the cod quota as a result of the failure to participate in the agreements concluded and not to sell our products in the EU area. I hope the Foreign Minister will take this into account in these negotiations. For Norway, only lua can no longer be held in the hand. We also need to be able to make real demands in the negotiations. We have to make use of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e733	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the thorough and good explanation of the EEA issues we received earlier this week. It is important to look at this matter now. Norway has common interests with the EU in a number of key areas, not least in two areas that I will address in this brief article: climate issues and energy issues. It is also important to look at the overall breadth of our relationship with the EU, so that we get a larger, more thorough and more nuanced debate on it. It is also important to look at the EEA Agreement — it is a good agreement — whether it is relevant now enough and whether it serves Norway’s interests. We have common interests with the EU in a number of areas and a number of fields. We also need to look at how the agreement pays off for us and how it pays off for the EU. For example, it is important that a number of fields are calm and stable. It is important for our business and the development of jobs. We must have good and sound use of resources, and we must, among other things, prevent overfishing, which affects a large part of our business life, and illegal fishing. It is not only easy when we have to negotiate not only with the EU but also with 27 countries in that area. The European Union has great interests in us, which we must exploit. These include: the keywords energy, fish, environment, climate and technology. It was said by the representative Myhre in the past that Europe does not have much to look at Norway for. But let me briefly mention on the energy side that Norwegian gas exports in the last year amounted to approx. 18 pst. of the total consumption of the 27 EU countries. Going to Europe's largest gas consumer, Great Britain, Norwegian gas accounts for 26 pst. of the consumption. For Germany, the second largest gas market in Europe, the Norwegian gas share is several times higher – the entire 48 pst. Belgium and France must be seen together because of internal gas exchanges. In the two countries there is a consumption of Norwegian gas of a total of 44 pst. This means that Europe needs Norway very much, and of course we need it very much. But that we are one of the most central players in the energy market in Europe, there is no doubt about it. If we now look at Russia and the possible construction of a conflict for the winter with Ukraine, we know that it is not that simple, and that there is a need to see this in a wider perspective. It is important that we also intervene in these areas. We do, but we could have been a lot more good at it. It is therefore also important to look at the EEA Agreement in this area. Then we can take the second field, which is carbon storage. It's one of the most important and biggest climate challenges we have – where we're going to make of CO2 captured from the exhaust gas. Here the EU has given us support. We accept that support. This is where Norway has the big challenges, putting them in a proper and safe way. Europe looks to us how we do it, and we look at Europe. Here we have great common interests on the climate side, about which we have to stand together. Therefore, it is important that we have a good EEA agreement and that we have a review in this area as well. When we see the large emissions, it is important that it is not just a European quota system but a global one. Only then will the allowance system be good and can be useful. Then we will have the Treaty of Lisbon, which is coming. It will be extensive. It will strengthen, inter alia: legislation. The European Parliament is strengthened and given greater powers. This gives us challenges. We have to intervene. We have to change this. It is with the background of what I have now said, I am pleased with the job that the Government has said it should do, namely to set up an EEA committee, with a broad review of the agreement and its consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e755	Today's debate also illustrates that although the ambitions of Norway are to have at least one hand on the steering wheel of Europe's policy design, reality shows that it is very difficult to get into that position. I believe that in many ways we can sit here at home on the mountain and see with some embarrassment the participation of our neighbours in European policy development. That is why it is so totally unreasonable when two of today's three government parties talk about Europe's democratic deficit, when we are actually being challenged in the field of how we can contribute to making Europe as strong as Europe should be in a challenging time. I think it could have been good to have Europe in its back at a time when we're going to see that the sailing time in international trade north-east is probably going to be halved, if the worst-case forecasts turn on, the climate impacts are going to be quite brutally down in our region too, and we're going to see Europe and the rest of the world growing needs and interest in securing energy for the future. Then it would have been very good to be within the European umbrella completely, within the policy design. Now that we see how Europe has evolved, faster in the last year than perhaps ever before, it must be quite funny for a no-party to look at how Sweden has helped to unload the Lisbon Agreement in port, how Sweden has helped to get Europe to put on a leadership trough, prepared for the Copenhagen climate summit. When we talk about democratic deficits, it seems that the countries that have entered the European Union over the last 15 years have not done so with the blessing of their inhabitants. That's the exact opposite of it. On the other hand, I think it would have been more tidy in this debate about two major parties in Norway had manned to take a stand, to a yes or no to the further migration towards Europe, that is, to go in front of the voters, and not the classic Norwegian sport, to run after the voters – where and which route the voters had to run at any time. There is no one today after what I have heard who has contributed to talking down the EEA Agreement. However, when we are in the situation that Iceland, like one of the three legs on this table, which should perhaps have had a safer foundation, can end up becoming a new EU member, neither the presentation nor any other documents attached to the Storting, which further fate – safely and completely – the EEA Agreement will have. There was a lot of talk about dairy products today – at times I had the impression that someone had ingested dairy products that had expired, but still: It must be timely to address these questions during the time we are in. The Foreign Minister, in his thorough presentation, also had a reference to Nordic cooperation, which works well. But Nordic cooperation also seems to me to be akin to facing significant challenges, all the time we can risk that four of the five Nordic countries are now increasingly turning their backs on Norway, and more and more moving towards European cooperation, and putting the political force in this development. It'll be a challenge for us. And when we spend a lot of time in Nordic cooperation discussing barriers to development between the Nordic countries, it's interesting to see how far you've also come in that area, to reduce border barriers, in Europe – much longer than we've achieved so far in the Nordic countries. Finally, I just want to join the representative Svein Roald Hansen's wish to put in place a Stortingets Brussels office. We must not be embarrassed to accept development and learning and knowledge of what is happening in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e772	I had intended to raise a matter that I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke a little little about in his presentation, and that was the Data Storage Directive. But in today's debate, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time in his five-minute speech to discuss this important topic. Then I also register that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this matter should now be referred to the hearing. But after hearing both the foreign minister and representatives from the Workers' Party, I am a little uncertain as to whether you need to have it consulted, because at least I perceive that the party has taken a very clear position on what you think about the data storage directive or not. This Directive is a directive which actually opens up the registration and retention of all telephone and Internet use in Norway for 6 to 24 months. And what's actually to be kept is who's calling, where you are when you're calling, and who you're calling. With regard to the Internet, all pages that have been visited must be recorded and stored for up to 24 months if the longest solution is chosen. The interesting thing about this matter is that the government wants to send out a note at the hearing, as I said. I don't understand why you have to send this out when all the aspects of the case have actually been assessed back and forth. There are several reports and investigations that address all aspects of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, or the Monitoring Directive, which I prefer to call it. So far, there is no doubt that the conclusions of most reports clearly state that this Directive is an attack on the privacy of individuals, nor will it have negative consequences under the EEA Agreement if one chooses to refuse to implement the Data Storage Directive. So the big question that I hope the Foreign Minister will perhaps answer now is: why do you choose to send the implementation of the new Data Storage Directive, the Monitoring Directive, to a new consultation round when it is clear what the consequences of the implementation of the Directive will have for each individual? All the different points of view are, as I said, well known, both to those who speak for and to those who speak against. Is it the case that the Government wants to buy out time, or is it the case that the Workers' Party, which supports the implementation of the Directive, is going to run an active campaign during the consultation period and bet that this is going to reverse the great scepticism that is out there in the population? This Directive was introduced following the Madrid bombing in 2004. Of course, both I and the Progress Party agree that the fight against crime is very important. At the same time, there must be limits on how far to go when it comes to monitoring innocents. We know that violence and abuse usually happen at home, but that doesn't mean that the state has the right to place a video camera in every single home? It is also unclear what effect the directive has on the fight against crime, for there are already technologies that allow data storage to be bypassed if you want to, and if you are a criminal. For me, this is a directive that states that all citizens in Norway are suspected of being potential criminals, and that is a development that I do not want to be involved in. I am convinced that the implementation of this directive would be like a wet – total, unlikely – dream for all those who were driving massive surveillance in the former Communist states of the Soviet Union and East Germany. I really hope, therefore, that the Workers' Party is making sense and sees that this directive is a major interference in the privacy of individuals and that the directive is being excavated once and for all. And I'm going to promise: I'd like to take the job of making sure that I dig down the directive. I hope that this directive will never be adopted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e794	Thank you very much for a very good invitation to have a wide-ranging debate on EU and EEA matters, and thank you also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a timely approach. I want to start by looking back. In 1989 the Berlin Wall fell, and it has changed the world by also changing the European continent. 27 countries are voluntary in EU membership and are closely woven together. Our relationship to that cooperation is through the EEA. When I was going to prepare for this debate today, I did the exercise of going into the Storting website to see what kind of issues had been dealt with with with the EEA/EFTA relevance in the previous enlargement period, i.e. in the 2008-2009 session. Then I found cases that referred to hospitals and healthcare. I found cases of control of freight transport, consumer credit agreements, professional qualification directives and relationships with weighing companies, securities, participation in Galileo, satellite navigation, stock law, passport law, environmental issues or environmental damage, alcohol law, foreign affairs law, watercourse and water resources, and of course I also found work cases. In fact, I found 62 issues of EFTA/EU relevance in the 2008-2009 session, while for the same period I found 46 issues of education, 57 issues of working life and 49 issues of energy. This very much underscores my point, namely that what is involved in EFTA/EEA/EU matters affects our daily lives very much, and matters have both a foreign policy dimension and an internal policy dimension. That is why it is very important that we have an active European policy, also independent of membership discussion. The government’s platform is based on the EEA Agreement, and it also reflects the situation of the people. But I also want to say that the position of the Labour Party – it is stated in our party programme – is that membership of the EU gives political influence, something that is not ensured by the EEA Agreement. It is also a very good example of the debate on the Treaty of Lisbon and what is now taking place in Europe. Norwegian business, but also Norwegian labour, is completely dependent on the EEA Agreement, and I want to use an image of it: before the financial crisis entered the Norwegian and European economies and the world economy, we have been through a historical boom. As of 1 August 2009, 101 000 work permits were granted to non-residents in Norway, and most of them, of course, come from an EU country. True, it is less than last year, but still the figure is high, even when one takes into account the financial crisis. At the same time, almost three out of ten enterprises say that they expect to use EU labour in 2009. So this isn't just important for private value creation in business; it's also very important for the public sector. Then I would like to make a little comment on the post of the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide from the Right. I understand that the representative Eriksen Soreide places much of the responsibility for European policy and what is now happening with regard to the Treaty of Lisbon to the Government. The representative also uses the concept of predictability as a shell word. I belong to those who believe that predictability with regard to such important issues as European policy and our relationship with the EEA Agreement on the contrary is a very great advantage and very important, and it also goes across policy lines. I want to challenge the Right a little: what does the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee think should be the parliamentary function – what should our new role be, and is there a need for a new role? I believe that the proposals that have been made from the previous period to set up a Grand Duchy office in Brussels and to assess how to make delegation trips to Brussels are very important. I would like to say that I welcome the initiatives of the Right to make concrete proposals for that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e807	The Minister of Foreign Affairs’ presentation clearly showed that we are facing major challenges in our cooperation with the EU. Not challenges on whether to cooperate, but challenges on how to cooperate. Taking care of Norwegian interests and values in a changing EU landscape, especially in view of the Treaty of Lisbon, is a challenging task. Ensuring our ability to influence and space in processes in a changing EU requires intelligence, and it requires that many contribute. When the EU changes its structures, it means that we, who are to cooperate and influence, also need to change our structures. The EEA Agreement, the framework for our relationship with the EU, is an important agreement for foreign Norway. It ensures our predictability and market access to an important export market – for many the most important export market. It also affects us through the direct or indirect impact of policies, regulations and directives adopted in the EU. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' review and presentation clearly showed that EU policies and strategies affect us in Norway regardless of whether we are members or not. The EEA Agreement provides a framework for our relationship with the EU and ensures a minimum of influence. Nevertheless, I must admit that I believe it is a major challenge for us to stand on the outside and try to influence the EU processes. When the EU makes a White Paper on transport policy, it will affect how we need to set up our transport policy. The implementation of the EU maritime transport strategy for 2018 also needs to have implications for how we think and decide on freight transport at sea. If the EU is to facilitate more goods by rail and sea, then we must do the same, for our goods to leave the country should be mainly to the EU or transported through the EU. Then, of course, the transport must be linked. The EU will create a new ‘White Paper’ for transport policy in 2010. This will replace the 2001 White Paper, which was revised in 2006, where the main focus will now be to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. Right now there is a document from the Commission that facilitates discussion and input into the new White Paper. Here it is important that we are on the road, and here it is important to influence EU transport policy in terms of intermodality, because logistical nodes will be important for the Norwegian transport industry and for the Norwegian export industry. EU sustainable transport strategies over the next ten years will have a direct impact on how we need to plan and think when designing our infrastructure systems. EU policies have a direct impact on the design of our policies. Norwegian roads are linked to EU roads, Norwegian railways are linked to EU rail and the sea and airspace are common. Here at Stortinget we discuss what national authorities can do, how we can influence and how we should work. What we know is that there is also extensive cooperation with EU countries and regions in municipalities and municipalities. There is extensive and close European cooperation on a daily basis. Cooperation is established in INTERREG programmes and INTERREG projects, and cooperation takes place within a number of programmes on industrial development, cultural development, education and research. Influences on policymaking in the EU are being worked on a daily basis. For example, through the INTERREG cooperation in the Swedish-Norway programme, there is a small project in the border area between the municipalities of Lierne and Røyrvik in Norway and the municipalities of Krokom and Strömsund in Sweden that call themselves the Mid-Scandian regional project. They work together in a common good labour market region to reduce border barriers and develop new cross-border common rural policies. They will be involved and influence the formulation of rural and regional policies in the EU. Municipalities in Norway and in the EU that share common interests are found together and will jointly influence EU policies. At regional level, active cooperation is established, many municipalities have active internationalisation policies, they have their own European offices in Brussels, they cooperate with regions of the EU, and this is done daily. This is a cooperation in which one learns from one another, where one builds relationships, and where one finds common interest in influencing the EU and EU policies. Such cooperation began, for example: with the INTERREG project called AquaReg, a cooperation between the Trøndelag, the BMW region in Ireland and Galicia in Spain on the development of marine farming, where thronders learned from Irish and Spaniards, and Irish and Spaniards learned from trønder. As a result, in the project we found common denominators in policy areas that were important in our regions, and where, from the Norwegian and Turkish sides, we found allies within the EU system that could influence policy in the direction we thought were right, not only for Trondelag, but also for Galicia and Ireland. In such a perspective, I am pleased that the EFTA Ministerial Meeting has decided to set up an EFTA forum for local and regional elected representatives – this in order to strengthen the participation of local and regional politicians in the EEA and the EFTA cooperation, inter alia. through dialogue with the Committee of the Regions of the European Union. Foreign Norway is completely dependent on cooperating closely with the EU, both within the EEA Agreement and in other areas. We rely on predictability in cooperation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement shows that we have challenges, but it also shows that these challenges are well addressed. Finally, I would like to repeat the surprise of the Minister of Foreign Affairs regarding the Progress Party and the Data Storage Directive. Where has it been by law and the order party Progress Party when they unconditionally go against the Data Storage Directive, regardless of that, among other things. be committed to the protection of privacy by the fact that the police will need to have a judicial hearing in order to have access to traffic data? On the part of the Labour Party, we believe that this is not a monitoring directive, but a crime-fighting directive and that there is a need to have cause for suspicion. It is not a general monitoring directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e836	Like the Minister for Foreign Affairs and several other speakers in this debate, I would like to stress that the EEA Agreement is the starting point for our relationship with the EU in this big period – sentence. Even an Icelandic membership will not change that. However, if Iceland’s application would end in membership after a referendum, there is reason to believe that it will affect our relationship with the EU in important policy areas. During a meeting with the EFTA Ministers in Brussels on Monday this week, the Icelandic Minister for Foreign Affairs made it clear that Icelandic membership depends on fish. Consequently, if Iceland achieves an acceptable negotiated outcome in this area, the EU is willing to change its fisheries policy and it can have a significant impact on Norway. Our own experience in the last year is not exactly in the direction of greater fisheries policy harmony with the EU. I am thinking then of the treatment of the sales case in the European Parliament and the introduction of a ban on imports and sales of fur products, the second being that, at the beginning of October, almost overnight and without notice, the EU closed its waters for fishing for mackerel for Norwegian vessels. This is a clear breach of the fisheries agreement between Norway and the EU, and a Norwegian protest has so far made little impression on the fisheries authorities in the EU. I assume that both of these cases – both self-injection and mackerel fishing – are overcoming the ongoing fisheries negotiations with the EU. In addition, it should be noted that Norway has not used its fishing quotas in EU waters for the last few years. The financial crisis has hit the EU countries to a degree that we hardly know at home. Several EU countries have seen a need to increase the debt burden quite considerably, and it can be dramatic for more countries than Latvia – and Iceland, for that matter. It is an improper paradox that only outside Norway and Switzerland will soon be able to live up to the obligations of the Maastricht Treaty, i.e. the requirements for countries to participate in the economic and monetary union of the European Union. As we now see it, EU countries together have very modest economic growth in 2010. Growth in productivity is low, and unemployment increases to over 10 pst. In some countries, one in five persons in employment is now out of work. Particularly worrying is youth unemployment. 25 pst. of young people in the EU do not enter the labour market, and anyone can imagine what this could mean for the long-term social stability of the EU. So Norway is like an island in a sea of unemployment, as we said in the countercyclical policy at the end of the 1970s. But those who believe that we are unaffected by economic development in Europe when we are going to find the way out of the financial crisis are probably wrong. We need common rules to control financial markets in an increasingly globalised economy, and we need common rules to prevent social dumping. We are part of the EU's internal market. Yes, it is our most important market, and we adopt EU legislation at a pace that places us among the very best students in the EU class – without us sitting on the wheel in Brussels. Here lies the weakness of the EEA Agreement, but perhaps also its strength. Just because we have chosen the EEA solution for good reasons, our presence in the EU is just as important, yes, perhaps more important than for a Member State, and we need to use the opportunities we have to exercise influence. The experience of the company case shows, first of all, that the European Parliament has become a very important part of the EU decision-making system. Parliament's power is now further strengthened by the Treaty of Lisbon. It is equally clear that the ban on the placing on the market of cell products is the result of the long-term and targeted lobbying of animal protection organisations against Parliament. Typically, it was dealt with by Parliament’s Consumer Committee, not the Fisheries Committee, which could be natural. Not that I have exaggerated notions that with greater effort we could have prevented self-reliance, but I note that the EU parliamentarians ate their ears when we suggested that a ban on the marketing of cell products in the EU could have consequences for EU fishing quotas in Norwegian waters. It's a fact that the selenium supplies quite roughly our common dish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e858	It's said that knowledge is power. In this case, Norway’s cooperation with the EU is also concerned with the free movement of power and insight through the EEA Agreement. With a freer exchange of knowledge and ideas, the EU can become the peace project it deserves to be. The four freedoms of the internal market of the EU are well-known and established, but, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned in his presentation, the Heads of State of Europe are now talking about a fifth freedom, namely the free movement of knowledge and ideas. The Lisbon Treaty strengthens this perspective by defining for the first time the development of a European Research Area. All countries need knowledge from other countries. The major challenges facing the world require cross-border cooperation, whether it be food crisis, climate crisis or issues that are less common to the public agenda. An important part of our cooperation with the EU must therefore be to ensure good conditions for Norwegian students, researchers, research institutions and business in the cooperating countries. Whether or not the free movement of knowledge should be formalised at some point as a separate freedom or one, I believe it is essential that Norway participates actively in the development we see in the EU in this area. Without cooperation at international level, it is difficult to promote good quality in research, and without good quality in research, it is difficult to address the major challenges satisfactorily. With increased internationalisation, access to investment that strengthens Norwegian research is also increasing. In St.meld. No 30 for 2008-2009, as the Stortinget dealt with earlier this year, we could read that approx. 8 pst. of the total research resources in Norway in 2007 came from foreign sources. 20 years ago, it was just 2 pst. The resources of the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development are almost 20 pst. of this. It is important for Norway that we participate as a full member in the EU Framework Programmes in this area and that we have been a participant for more than 20 years. It is also clearly the largest EU programme Norway is in. Cooperation with the EU in the field of research is useful for Norway, and Norway benefits from it. It is worth noting that Norwegian applicants claim to compete well for EU project funding. Since the start of the Seventh Framework Programme in 2007, over 1500 applications have been submitted with Norwegian participants. 330 of these have been set for funding. That means a little over every five applications. For the sake of comparison, the average for all participating countries is every six applications. It is particularly active in the environment part of the framework programme of Norwegian researchers. In fact, every third EU project has one or more Norwegian partners here. Also in energy and security research and in the marine sector, we are cutting high. Norway is also dependent on building on knowledge beyond its borders, in order to further develop our own welfare society and increase value creation. Students and students are future researchers and value creators. Until now, more than 14,500 Norwegian students have participated in exchanges. Over 100,000 Norwegian students have participated in school cooperation. More than 1,500 pupils and apprentices have participated in exchanges in EU-related education programmes. Norway depends on this type of international competence in its population. It also strengthens our ties with European trading partners and gives young people from other countries the opportunity to take with them experiences from Norway. This is the free movement of power and insight, both about solidarity and about value creation. It's a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e879	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e882	We are part of Europe, geographically, culturally and economically, but also politically, in the sense of political traditions, in the way we discuss and act politically. As an EU member, I would like us to be a member of the EU. Today, it is the EEA Agreement that provides the framework for our relationship – as a state – to the EU. It provides a good framework for economic interaction with the EU. But there are major weaknesses in our relationship with the European Union, because it is limited to economic cooperation. There is another dimension that is becoming increasingly important now, especially when the Treaty of Lisbon is now being rolled into EU cooperation, namely the political dimension – the dimension of political cooperation, where representatives both in the European Parliament and in the national parliaments have greater influence. This also changes the framework conditions for our – to say – national relations with Europe. It becomes much more important that we, as Norwegian politicians, deal with European policies and with our European colleagues. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out the need for capacity building in terms of knowledge and knowledge of political processes in Europe. It also applies to us as politicians. I believe that we must increasingly follow and take part in the political debate in Europe, not as particularly interested people in foreign policy, not in our relationship with the European Union, whether we are in favour of or against the European Union as such – for the European Union there is either us or not – but in view of the fact that the European Union is the largest and strongest political and economic force in our neighbourhood, on which we are totally dependent. We as trade politicians, as party politicians and as national votes must follow the European debate. We know, for example. that the EU fisheries policy is now in the process of being implemented. The European Commission presented its Green Paper in April this year. There are major changes in the European fisheries policy. It is in our interest that we participate in the debates now taking place in Europe on these issues. That is why it is my hope when the Committees of the United Kingdom are now planning their foreign travel plans, that the need to participate is taken into account – that we, as committee politicians, are in contact with our European colleagues when we are travelling, that we are in contact with our respective committees in the European Parliament and in the national parliaments around Europe, also at the party political level. It is my wish that we have much greater contact with our sister parties, as we in the Labour Party, with great luck, have – we have close and good cooperation with the European Socialist Group in the European Parliament. I think this is an example of follow-up also for others, in order to safeguard our national interests in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e895	As the Foreign Minister rightly pointed out, there has been a great deal of security in the debate on the Data Storage Directive, both in the form of parallels to the Soviet surveillance regime – which must be said to be an exaggeration – and in the form of more emotionally charged defence of the Directive, where the consideration of one child who might be rescued from abuse justifies the storage of all citizens' data and telecommunications traffic. My opposition to the Data Storage Directive is not thought of in the right way – it is on the contrary in a healthy sense of doubt. I cannot be certain that all the information that is required to be stored is in danger of being misused or not. But the signals from both the Privacy Commission and the Data Protection Authority suggest that we should not take that chance. Lawyer Eva Jarbeck has written the following in a text available on the website of the Data Protection Authority: ‘It is also often the case that there is almost a law of nature in which information that exists will be used. Once the information is stored, many will have transparency and the intention behind it is always good. Therefore, information is often used in a completely different context from what was originally thought. You don't need a totalitarian regime to do this. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the consequences of the Directive in a broader context than that of the Directive itself.’.» Nor can I know with certainty whether the directive can contribute to the fight against serious crime and terrorism, but I know with certainty that the vast majority – and at least the vast majority of organised criminals – are fully capable of establishing so-called proxies, making their data traffic virtually impossible to trace. So we have nothing to fear, which ends up being mapped the most. A wise American once said that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. I do not interpret this alert to the point that we should store and map our communication as far as possible to be on the safe side. On the contrary, I think one of Thomas Jefferson's most important messages was that fundamental freedoms must never be replaced by a sense of security. Citing American presidential fighters may sound somewhat tumultuous — I agree so far — but it is perhaps a turbulence we could need more of when we really, throughout the West, look for quick solutions and quick fix on fundamental and very complex challenges that terrorism and serious crime represent. Now the ball is at both the Workers' Party and the Right, and none of the parties have decided. That means that the matter is not settled. I have good hopes that Norway will apply the right of reservation to the EU Data Storage Directive. The right has even programmed that they will not adopt changes to the law that further violate privacy. So I believe that the answer to the 14 questions that the Right has given to the Government is self-evident.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e913	The President shall not comment on it, except to indicate that the addressee was the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e916	I would like to comment on the foreign minister's position on the Left and Data Storage Directive. Talking about the resistance of the Left to the directive as extremely and poorly balanced is very arrogant. I also believe that it is an error to focus on whether the Left is for or against international data storage rules. The real issue is whether or not Norway should implement the Data Storage Directive. It's that simple. So the answer to the question to the representatives of the Workers' Party is that we do not want national or international rules on the storage of data, in case some of us do something criminal in the future, as the directive states. Of course, the left is not against international rules in general, if I was unclear about it in the lines. That is the content of the Data Storage Directive we are opposed to. As several of the Workers' Party's representatives know, the Left has never been in favour of international rules on data storage. We believe in principle that it is going too far to impose extensive storage of personal data on private telecommunications companies. Being opposed to storing information on contact between people who are not suspected of anything criminal does not mean that we are opposed to empowering the police to effectively combat crime. I hope the representatives of the Workers' Party also see that. The point in this case is that the Directive imposes on private companies the responsibility for huge amounts of sensitive personal data, to which the police should have access if necessary. I think it is alarming that the Workers' Party is now choosing to ignore the problem of this directive. I expect that the last word in this case has not been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e929	In this debate, the Labour Party has challenged whether the two parties, by their majority in Stortinget, would agree to submit an application for Norwegian EU membership. A rather special approach, I have to say. Just as the three government parties have different views on the membership issue itself, there are different views among the civil parties. I am quite sure that the Left and Christian People's Party had not accepted that the Right should join the Workers' Party in sending an application for Norwegian EU membership, if we had a civil government, which fortunately we do not have. There has been a lot of debate here about Norwegian EU membership, perhaps too much, all the time there is no theme in the foreseeable future. Instead, we should focus on how to work to safeguard Norwegian interests, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs underlines in his statement. We also had to do that as an EU member, let's not forget that, all the time we have to link alliances with others in order to get an impact on our vision. Svein Roald Hansen took up the idea of a separate Brussels office for Stortinget – an interesting and good idea that should be pursued, but we also need to work more bilaterally towards central EU countries. Germany is, for example: An important ally for Norway and who in many key areas speaks Norway’s case — sometimes better than what, for example, has been reported. Sweden does. It's a very interesting problem and it's seaworthy for Norway. We must therefore, in addition to Brussels, maintain contact with Germany and other important close allies, both on the government side and at the parliamentary level. All Norwegian deposit representatives should be in touch with colleagues in the Bundesdag in Berlin. We are accepted there with open arms. Norway has to get on the ground earlier on the issues discussed in the EU. The Services Directive and the Data Storage Directive are good examples of this. These are important issues that have been going on in the EU for many years – back and forth, negotiations here and there – and then one comes to a compromise, and then we get on the road in Norway. It's too late. Then we have one option, or maybe more correctly, two alternatives. It's either to accept it, or it's to say no. Saying no to introducing a directive that applies to 29 other countries is usually a very bad idea, all the time we depend on good cooperation with the other European countries, which was the whole reason we got the EEA Agreement 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e942	The debate has shown that there is a broad consensus on the need for and the need for stronger involvement by the Stortinget at an early stage in terms of new policy-making in the EU – I am pleased about it – and also support whether the Stortinget can get an office in Brussels that can help with the contacts of the party groups, the committees and the Stortinget as such. We must have a more alert look at EU policy-making. It's our responsibility. There's no one doing for us. I therefore hope that all those who have been involved in the debate, and happy many also from committees other than the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, will take this back and follow it up. We have the opportunity in the committees now to raise matters. As Susanne Bratli explained very well in his speech, it is in many areas that what we are involved in the Committees has contact points for policy making in the EU. If we now follow up on what has been said in this debate at this point, I think we too are drawing the European dimension into our domestic political debate, into this Chamber and beyond. Then I think more people get their eyes up for how integrated we are in this collaboration, and maybe start asking questions, as some of us do, about how wise it is to be so deeply integrated, so much with, without co-determination when the rules are designed. So to Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who thought that in the Workers' Party, which is on the party program, to say it like this, we are pushing Right in front of us when we do not take the EU debate. I don't recognize myself in that picture. I have tried to get a great deal of commitment on these issues both as a magnificence representative and as a leader of the European movement over six years. I've had many from the Right on that team, but it hasn't waved into the political parties. It has been demanding to get attention around it and interested in it. This was also not one of the main issues in the election campaign. I'm not going to give up on getting interested in European issues also out there among the population. I think that's what might be involved in creating the basis that needs to be there to send a new application for membership. Then there has been a little debate on the Data Storage Directive. I would like to say a little on the basis of Snorre Serigstad Valen's articles. He's skeptical about implementing this based on uncertainty as to whether it could be misused. There is every reason to be concerned with the legislation surrounding this storage. But today we get bank statements from our bank every month. In my opinion, much more sensitive data is stored for ten years. These movements are continuously monitored by the authorities. It's surveillance of innocent people in case we were going to do something wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e953	Now we got a response from the representative Tenden on what the left means. There was no arrogance in my remark that she repeatedly did not answer the question. Now I think that in itself came out okay. I believe that there is reason to respond on behalf of the Workers' Party when it is said that we ignore privacy. I don't want that hanging on me. I think we haven't added up to that. Then to the representative Hoksrud. It is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that, for the Workers' Party, we are in favour of the directive insofar as there is no evidence of privacy in the hearing we are going to have, which gives cause for a different position. I think that's an open approach. The representative Serigstad Valen's posts seemed to me to be balanced, critical, but he also saw that there were other aspects to it. The Data Storage Directive is about the balances between individuals and society, freedom and security, privacy and the fight against crime. I think we're getting wiser if we at least weigh, that these are difficult questions to balance out, and that we have to take both of them into account when we evaluate. Why are we sending this to the hearing, the representative asked Hoksrud. It's the usual procedure to do that. There will be an explanation of the aspects of this case in connection with its possible implementation in Norwegian law. To cancel it would actually be a little bit strange. Then I think the representative of Myrli is concerned with something important, namely the importance of maintaining bilateral relations in addition to the processes in Brussels. Then I can tell you that I have my first conversation with the new German Foreign Minister on Sunday 29 November – this is a good start with the new government – and with the upcoming Spanish Presidency on 7 December. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee was in doubt if we could get as much contact with Spain as with Sweden. It varies from country to country, but my experience is that there is a lot up to us and how we work towards these countries. We have a lot to talk to Spain about. So the representative Kristiansen said that the Nordics are "turning their backs on Norway". On these issues of cross-border cooperation and cross-border trade, the Nordic region is part of the same. We're part of the EEA. As I pointed out in my presentation, the EEA Agreement is the most important Nordic cooperation agreement that has ever been concluded because the internal market then also applies in the Nordic region. Therefore, it is unlikely that the EU will go beyond Norway in this area, because we are actually bound by the same rights and obligations. I feel that cooperation in the Nordic countries has become more closely involved in these issues of concrete cooperation between governments. Finally, everyone in this room has their opinion on the issue of the European Union, I think. I have mine, and I've made it known in many ways. But I will stand by that as long as Norway has the EEA Agreement, it is the responsibility of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to go into the fight for that agreement to be properly respected and enforced as long as it is the one we have. I have learned over these years that there are a lot of Norwegian jobs, Norwegian welfare, which depends on that agreement being intact and functioning in the way it was supposed to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e974	I am surprised that one of the most important issues for Norway, the EU’s regional policy after 2013, has been relatively small in focus – not only in this Chamber, but also outside this Chamber. I'm talking about Green Paper on Territorial Cohesion, the Green Paper on Territorial Cohesion in Europe. It is about the fact that, independently of every cage in Europe, one must have access to the well-being and opportunities that the Europe of the future can offer us. This is about focusing on opportunities and challenges for all areas outside the big cities and outside the strongest growth centres. This group then definitely belongs to Norway. This can be said to be a never so small correction to the Lisbon strategy, which in many ways is a competitive and knowledge strategy adapted to the major cities of Norway. But here's a focus on all of the areas outside the big cities. It's an important matter for Norway. It's about getting tailor-made tools in place to adapt Norwegian challenges. We talk about issues such as differentiated employer fees, we talk about company support regulations and business regulations. This is about Norwegian industrial policy, and it is about Norwegian regional policy. This matter will govern the political freedom of action we will have after 2013. It is crucial that we now, as Sverre Myrli has underlined, use the time ahead in this decision-making process to influence the final result. Unfortunately, the Norwegian debate has often been a feature of being a debate on whether we should discuss important EU issues without actively addressing the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e985	After hearing many of the speeches today, it should almost be thought that the country was in a governance crisis, that there were major economic problems in the country, and that Norway was going to become a member of the EU. But as representatives from both the Right and the Workers' Party have said, the people will not. The people are somehow the problem. I also think the argument you put up to, the reality description that someone on the yes side adds up to, makes a strong contribution to securing the majority of the no-side. It is recalled in 1994, what horror pictures were drawn for Norway if we did not become a member, what leave we would get, how Norwegian business would be affected. There has been relatively good progress even though we have chosen a different form of association with the EU than membership. Svein Roald Hansen also says in his speech that it is to make people involved in the EU case, and I fully agree with that. I am a member of one organisation, No to the EU. We're probably reaching 30,000 members this year. It's huge growth, very activity. Many people are involved in the EU case, especially on the no side, and we have a good development. But what has puzzled me the most today was Ivar Kristiansen' article. When I heard that, I got the impression that we were going to ask some questions about the excellence of the European Union in all areas, almost inherited sin. And it is important when discussing the development of the European Union that we see that, for example: participation in parliamentary elections has fallen even though the power of the European Parliament has increased. The election this summer there was 43 pst. – if I don’t remember completely wrong – who chose to use their voting rights for the European Parliament’s promises so high, it shows that this Parliament has great problems involving the normal, even man. If we look at – as Kristiansen said – that we, who were from the no-side, suspected EU citizens in other EU countries that the process had taken place with the blessing of the people, and if one now starts to look at the times when there has been a vote on further integration in the EU, it is not a very proud story for Europe's elite. When the Netherlands voted on the EU Constitution, it was no. When France voted on the EU Constitution, it turned down. Irene said no to the Treaty of Lisbon in the first place. You make some adjustments, and you say yes. The population of the Netherlands and France was not given the opportunity to take a new position when some changes were made to the Lisbon process. If we take our neighbouring countries: Denmark has said massively no to Maastricht. The Swedes said no to the euro. So the times you have chosen and dared to take the people on board, there has not been any great popular opinion in Europe that has wanted stronger and stronger integration. For those who stand on the yes side, it must be important to take into account that the EU project has been largely driven by the elite. The project we are now seeing, the Treaty of Lisbon, is going to be even more elite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e995	I feel very confident that there are none of the yes parties in Stortinget who want to bring Norway into a new EU debate where the outcome is not certain. But my point has only been to stress that it cannot be the responsibility of the Right only that we are going to an EU debate and that we are taking care to get Norway into the EU in the long term. If that situation should arise, it is clear that the situation we now have in Stortingen, with a majority of the Right Party and the Labour Party, is interesting in a historical perspective. And much of the impatience in getting a membership is due, among other things. a part of the issues covered by the debate, the EEA Agreement, the relationship with the EU for a foreign country such as Norway, and as Professor Fredrik Sejerstedt of the Centres for European Law said at a meeting earlier this autumn: the EEA may appear to be becoming more and more important for Norway, but does Norway lose significance in relation to the EU? Norway’s EU ambassador says that we are facing a more complex, unbridled and demanding EU. There should be no doubt about that. Then I would like to add some comments to the post of the representative Laila Gustavsen. The parliamentary function of EEA work and the work on EU matters I took up in my speech, and I mentioned among other things. that I wanted the Stortinget to play a greater and more active role in EEA issues, in dealing with issues, and not least in the use of the European Committee. The things that Svein Roald Hansen is now talking about in relation to the fact that both Green and White Papers are to be dealt with in the committees, a Brussels office, etc. are matters that have full support of the Right and that have had it all along. It is a pity that those matters have been delayed, but that is something that we are going to support. It's not going to be on the right. I must also say that an example of how the European Committee has not been used in a good enough way is the discussion that was about the Stockholm programme in the past. So that's where the right and the other parties wanted the government's positions. We didn't get them. And when it came to a meeting of the European Committee, the Minister of Justice did not stand there as a specialist council. The Foreign Minister, naturally, did not have detailed knowledge of this and could not answer the questions that came. Norway’s positions were not known until they could be seen on the EU delegation’s website in the autumn. This is a very good example of an area in which the Stortinget wanted to take an active part in EEA work, but was not able to do so because the positions were not known, and because the expert council did not represent the European Committee. There was also something I mentioned in my speech: the importance of the specialist councils in the European Committee, so that the Storting has an opportunity to influence, and not least to contribute to the positions taken by Norway, is an expression of what is the majority in the European Parliament. However, further work on EEA issues and EU issues, further measures that can help facilitate the contribution of the Storting, should at least not be on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1004	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice and therefore gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1007	The proposals for an office in Brussels and sending delegations were neither on the Right nor on the Labour Party in the last period, it was on the Presidency, so we can hope that the new presidency can help us implement it. I asked for the floor because the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum turned the time back to the 1994 debate, which horror visions were drawn if we did not join. That's right in itself, but it was also drawn some horror visions if we became a member. I think both sides were quite anxious in their descriptions of what disasters would come over the country, whether we were outside or becoming a member. Now it has been very good in Norway. The point is that we became a member of the internal market through the EEA Agreement, so that most of what membership would have covered, we have participated in. There have been very good progress in some areas where there was very much uncertainty, for example. how membership would affect environmental policy. Today we see that the European Union is the lighthouse, and we are the ones sailing for it – not the opposite, and the elite regime. I hope that the review we are given can help to remove those types of terms, because there are therefore 29 countries participating on a voluntary basis. It's not elite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1016	I have followed the debate from the office. I think it's a very interesting development of the tone that has been in the debate. It has waved a little back and forth in individual matters, but the debate has shown very clearly that the Foreign Minister, as he said in his statement two days ago, wants to take initiative and take action by the Government to involve the Storting in a stronger way than before. It's very positive. The second thing that the debate has shown is that from all parties there is a clear desire to raise the European debate and the discussion on the issues taking place in Europe, in the European Parliament and in the European institutions, into the Grand Duchy at an earlier time – not only linked to the issues arising from the Treaty of Lisbon, but also to get the specific issues on the agenda at an earlier time in the Grand Duchy and in the public. I believe this is a recognition that such a matter as the Data Storage Directive had deserved a much wider place in the public at a much earlier time than it has received, as Snorre Serigstad Valen mentioned in his post, because one could go into the debate and get arguments that had been important for the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian public to have taken part in, at a much, much earlier time than what we have done. When, for example: I think we have had a much greater interest in discussing Norway's position in order to be offensive to them, at a much, much earlier time, than to come back and just adopt those directives – say yes or no. Until now, we've strictly just said yes. Here, good initiatives were taken from the Right in the last period, which were discussed and followed up by the Government. We ended up amending the Rules of Procedure in order to give the committees more opportunity to enter. I believe that the Presidency must look at, as Svein Roald Hansen also said, how we in the Stortinget, in the groups, can link the ties closer to our party groups in the European Parliament in order to be on that path at an earlier stage, and how we can ensure that concrete procedures in the Stortinget ensure that we get the debates when the Green Papers and the White Papers come, when the debates are taken in the European Union. Because then we can be with our sister parties and get the debate at the same time with them, and maybe make new recordings, learn and get good recordings back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1029	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1032	In the name of the game, I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen that the nuances may disappear from both sides – at least we agree on that. What I think is paradoxical – and which must be very paradoxical for those who have wanted the development of a more federal European Union – is that, when Parliament's power is increased, the people's inauguration around the parliamentary elections has nevertheless fallen. It must be very sad for those who want to see this development. What I think is a little sad, even with Norwegian debate, is that instead of discussing what we can use our role for, there are always some people who want to rematch what people have said no to twice. We should also discuss Norway's role. The Norwegian people have in two referendums chosen that we do not want membership. It doesn't seem like there's any big movement for the opposite now either. We should therefore spend time discussing what we can use Norway's unique role in – how we can pursue an active European policy, how we can be an active voice in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1041	The next speaker is Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1044	I'm going to use less than that! I'll say to Battle Force Vedum that we do that here today. We are discussing Norway’s role – foreign policy, domestic policy. It is therefore not that we have to have the discussion in relation to the choice we made. I think we have to have ambitions about that. My good friend and representative of a government party Heikki Holmås said it would be nice to come in earlier, so that we could discuss with the others and be involved and influence. I fully agree with that. But as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that although we never get so good at being out early – get hold of the proposals, use the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement, have experts in the samples, be informed in the Stortinget, get Norwegian experts – we must never create the illusion that all of these proposals do not help us to decide. There is a fundamental difference between those who are involved in a process and who decide to prepare decisions to be taken by a Council of State and those who are not involved in the design and decision. I'm not saying this as an post for one or the other, but as an actual description. And when the European Committee takes its decisions, it is, as we know, on the basis of a proper explanation of the decisions we are going to take, but those are decisions in retrospect. That's the model that's been added up to. So I'm going to be the first to say that we're going to use all the possibilities we have -- they're not completely infinite, but there are some -- to be as parallel as we can. The debate on the Data Storage Directive is such an example. That debate has taken place in the other countries, and it is now in Norway. Then you could say that we should have had that debate in parallel in our country. I am thinking of the sister parties of the representative Tenden, who have been involved in the adoption of this directive. I'm not sure they all deserve the characteristic that they 'offer privacy'. I think they've made difficult decisions. Some have been tried in the courts of EU countries. But we have to agree that the nature of the cooperation we have with the European Union, which is the EEA Agreement, and for which there is a broad majority in this Chamber, and on which all governments have been governed since 1994, is an agreement that we are not involved in that process. And then the Norwegian big business and the Norwegian people have to decide whether the benefits of it are greater than the disadvantages of being involved. So this is an actual information and not an article for any particular vision. And if it's interpreted like that, I'm quite comfortable with it as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1057	The next speaker is Heikki Holmås. Heikki Holmås has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Since he's a friend of the Foreign Minister, I suppose he should.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1060	It does. Now the Foreign Minister used all three minutes. It looks like I've only got half a minute – maybe it's a little short? Of course, to my good friend, the foreign minister, I won't say anything at all, because I'll say something to the president. With regard to the intervention by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to say that it is of course quite right that the people, as they know, have weighed the question and found out that the advantage of standing outside is great. And I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also thinks that there would be very much right about the things that were discussed by the EU delegation, our delegation in Brussels, to a greater extent also caught attention in Norway. I think that before you get a proper debate between the right and the left about the concrete political issues also in the Storting, this is going to be a lot more difficult, because then it's going to be a little bit distant, then there's something happening down there, and we're interested that these are political issues that are breaking up with each other. No matter how much the Government wants to be – let's say – active in the process at an early stage, it will always be such that the government's agenda is influenced by the issues discussed in the country. If we had managed to get into the treatment of white papers and green papers, get it into the ordinary committee work to a much greater extent, as we see them doing in Denmark, as we see them doing in Sweden, there could at least be a chance that this would have more impacted the debate. It is clear that when the EU discussed its renewable directive, Norway, and the Government, could take the initiative and say that this is what we stand for in relation to the renewable directive, that is what we will do. Instead, we are now coming back and discussing how to implement the EU renewable directive in Norway. Making sure to get these processes going, so that we can be parallel, so that we can run a parallel race and be offensive on the issues where we know that EU countries are more offensive than us, be more critical at an early time when we believe that EU countries are taking the wrong direction, I think it is essential. Then it is quite clear that we are not sitting in the Council, and when we are not sitting in the Council, we will not have voting rights in the Council either. But we're going to be honest enough to admit that from the No side we often say that we have a huge space for action outside the EU, and then maybe they say from the Yes side that we have tremendous influence within the EU. The truth is somewhere in the middle, and I think it's closer to where I stand than the foreign minister stands. But it's straight; we don't have to agree on that. But we all get to do our job to ensure that Norwegian interests are taken care of, and that the Norwegian political debate takes on board the issues that are also being discussed and gets influence on and significance for the design of Norwegian legislation and legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1075	This case shows more than anything else that the government parties have believed that the discussion about biodiesel was worth including – also in this case. Here's a government party against a government party. What I like is the constructive attitude of the representative Heikki Holmås regarding how biging, government and Norway come before the directives. What the Foreign Minister's statement showed was that there are a wide range of directives in which we have come to an end and that this government has actually failed in terms of the small possibility Norway has of exercising influence over the directives. We all have an interest in getting ahead – even with our outsiders. However, it does not remove the main premise that we would have significantly increased influence as an EU member. The representative of Holmås also takes up the importance of extracting Green and White Papers from the EU for discussion in Parliament here – and thus coming back again. At the same time, however, it does not remove the discussion that should have been before: why Norway does not have MEPs in the EU, how we could have used Norwegian both parliamentarians and members of the Council to exercise greater influence. What is now happening in Soria Moria I and in the continuation of Soria Moria II is that it has been agreed to almost exclude an EU debate in an unlimited way, until a new government is put in place. It is, as was said, significantly different from what, for example. The Bondevik II government did, where the Right was open and honest that the most important thing we could do was – if the people wanted it – to contribute to Norway's entry into the EU. It didn't happen in that period. But the lack of debate that is now among the people does not help to strengthen the yes side, it contributes to weakening Norway's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1087	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 389]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1104	This is a joyous day for us who are concerned about the Norwegian-German connections, and in this way I could have actually continued my post on the previous case. That the German school in Oslo – Max Tau now becomes a German-Norwegian bicultural school, is very good. I consider it an important contribution to increased cooperation between the two countries in the fields of language, culture, education and business. The German school is a very important player in the Norwegian-German environment in Oslo, together with the German Embassy, the Goethe-Institut, the Norwegian-German Chamber of Commerce, the Norwegian-German Society and several other actors. I would therefore like to thank the Government, the German Embassy and, to the extent possible, the Church, Education and Research Committee for what is now in place. Let us hope that we can continue to agree on other issues that are important for the Norwegian-German connections, such as the position of the German language in Norwegian school, the possibility for more people in Norway to watch German television, and that Norwegian school students will get a different impression of today's Germany than they get on school trips where they travel from concentration camp to concentration camp – just to mention some themes. But we can do that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1111	Since this matter has now come to Stortinget, I only want on behalf of the Government to express satisfaction at the fact that this agreement is in place. I want to recognise the German School, the importance of this school's function for Norwegian-German relations. I think that the change that is now taking place with the status of the school, is also going to lead to more Norwegian students going to that school and getting access to the rich language and culture circle that Germany represents. I agree with all that Sverre Myrli said in his post. I would particularly like to stress the importance that we in Norway, on the part of the authorities, on the part of political Norway and on the part of civil society, are concerned with the position of German languages, because we live in a time when there is English in all channels, but where the central European languages such as German and French and others are important to us. Then I have faith that the German School not only sends a signal about culture, political cooperation and cooperation between civil societies, but also contributes to maintaining an important language in our cultural circle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1135	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1152	The matter under consideration here has not been dealt with in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1175	The matter under consideration here has not been dealt with in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1189	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1219	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1235	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortings meeting on 17 November 2009 on important EU and EEA matters be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-19.ana.ud1501e1328	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
