ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e98	In the gallery today there is a broad delegation from the French Parliament. The delegation is the Norwegian Partnership Group, with a large number of members. We really appreciate that they're here. [[Applause from the Chamber]] From 11 June to 16 June, an application for welfare leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Karita Bekkemelm. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Varare representative, Svein Gülseth, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e118	Svein Gelseth is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e159	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 65 minutes, Progress Party 40 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, a speaking time of up to 5 minutes is proposed for members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, up to three lines of response are proposed following the rapporteur's observations on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e170	Today, we are dealing with a position of great importance for the development of this country over a decade — and of course beyond that. So it seems that the committee has marked the enormous commitment of the whole country to this matter, both during the process of the proposal for the notification and during the work on the Committee's position. The commitment is natural, because good transport and communication opportunities are not just an objective in themselves, but a decisive tool to achieve almost all other policy objectives, which increase the value and competitiveness of business, to use the whole country, good welfare services in health, school, kindergarten and care for the elderly — and much more. We have developed a welfare society, a business and an international interaction that requires increased mobility. The transport sector has not followed this development. The sector has been down-prioritized by several governments over time. So we have a follow-up on maintenance. For this reason, the train is too often – in fact also today – and therefore the outcome ratio is too bad. A transport lift, a bet, is needed in this sector. I am therefore pleased that the Government has invited the Storting to adopt a very ambitious national transport plan for the next ten years, a proposal that was very well received throughout the country when it was submitted. The government wants to spend 100 billion more on communications over the next ten years compared to the current plan. That's an increase of 45 pst. In addition to this, county councils are given a significant increase to the road network, which they will take over from the new year. For 2010, this increase is DKK 1 billion, and one of the reasons is that the borders of the county roads will increase in the years to come. The NTP proposal includes comprehensive road, rail, ports and fairways development plans and a much stronger commitment to road safety, public transport and measures to facilitate pedestrians and sick people. There are also a number of measures to achieve our objectives of better climate and environment. It is a comprehensive approach that the Committee has put forward, in fact, on 300 pages. In a few areas, there is a consensual committee behind the comments; in other areas, there are different batch constellations. The game has shown both a policy and a financial framework in the configuration. And I'm sure that's what the different parties will do, so here I want to spend most of my time on the multi-party setting. I have particularly noted the progress of non-inferiority of money. In this setting there is an addition of a frame of 580 billion kroner, but according to the Official Journal of the Drama 5 June, the Ulf Erik Knudsen of the Progress Party says that they will spend 1 000 billion kroner, or a billion dollars, on road construction. One would think that the Progress Party had money other than what the rest of us do. It is easy to be a politician when you can promise billions of new ones for almost all good purposes and at the same time promise huge tax havens. The party of progress here owes some of us to lack political courage in the debate on transport. But how much political courage does it take to bet on billions of promises versus pursuing a responsible economic policy? How shall the Progress Party comply with its promises? They want to form a government with the Right – like the Christian People's Party and the Left. Although some of these parties in opposition also overwhelm the Government, they operate with completely different financial frameworks. A transport plan must be followed up in the annual government budget, but it is now the first time in the four-year period. The treatment of NTP for 2006–2015 resulted in more than one ambitious transport plan than proposed by the Bondevik government. After four years, the government has not only met the financial limits, with overfilling them by DKK 1.9 billion. The action package for work involves an additional purchase effort of around 3.8 billion kroner. This shows that we have managed to reverse a long-standing negative trend and that we have started a necessary transport lift. National transport plans are structured around the key objectives of the future and regional development, transport security, environment and universal design. In particular, we would stress that the NTP contains a clearly differentiated transport policy with a particular focus on public transport and rail in and around the largest cities, while the growth of the economic framework is particularly strong in the country. The majority of major investments in rail are in the intercity triangle in the Austland area. The double-track Oslo-Ski is the second largest single project in the NTP. There is a large amount of road project in the investment plan – 35 on E6, which extends from Svinesund to Kirkenes. Nearer 40 road projects shall start already during the first four-year period. There are projects in ports and fairways along the whole coast, securing fairways, deepening ports and expanding new port facilities for landing fish. In particular, North Norway is satisfied with many port projects. The NTP Nordgebiet bet also involves several important development projects in relation to the roads to Russia, Finland and Sweden. In the context of the Northern Region initiative, it is very good to now create a holistic study that looks at the long-term transport needs and the different expansion options in the north, including the possibility of rail. When it comes to the railways or the country, I feel that there is a much greater cross-political will to bet now than it was a few years ago. The government is investing heavily in the years ahead, including: with double track expansion in the intercity triangle, with the development of terminals and crossing tracks. There will be a doubling of the freight capacity. In addition, the potential of a high-speed path in Norway should be assessed. With the exception of the Progress Party, all parties say that this arrangement should aim at the construction of a high-speed path. But we don't have a good enough basis for decision now, and we also say that the statement will show if it's possible to achieve this goal. Different professional environments make different assessments, and we need a more robust basis to make a decision when the transport plan rolls in four years. This arrangement must be taken into account by the State, but there must be a shift in the work done by the external railway professional environment. And then I want to stress that we're going to build up existing paths in line with NTP's plans. We also say that the intercity wager in the NTP proposal can be a first step in a future high-speed path. The Government Party is concerned that the development project will be carried out efficiently, collectively and with as rapid progress as possible. This adds up to the NTP proposal, because there are significantly increased frames and several large, coherent development projects. We are in favour of the Government's proposal to try out a mechanism to segregate some large, whole-scale investment projects in their own budget lines in each budget year. The project with a plan of progress and funding must be dealt with by Stortinget, and the rewards for years to come must be followed up in order to achieve maximum rational progress. We also see that new forms of contract that combine construction/development, operation and maintenance of road sections can contribute to good use of resources. The evaluation of the OPS project shows that this is a positive experience that we can take with us. Better road safety is an overarching goal. It's tragic that so many people are killed and injured in traffic. The zero vision must be constant. It is good that the NTP proposal has an ambitious goal of getting closer to this vision during the period. There is not one action here, but a series of actions that will work together. Several of these measures are particularly targeted at the high-risk group — those aged 15 to 24. I would like, among other things: indicate that a proposal to increase the financial envelope for the road safety programme area by 159 pst. compared to the existing NTP. In NTP it is proposed to build 500 km with new walking and cycling roads along the national road network. Let's add up the permissions by 154 pst. compare with the current plan. We are overconfident that better organisation for cyclists brings great social benefits in terms of better traffic management, less energy use, less air pollution, positive health benefits and less noise. Two thirds of all trips shorter than 5 km are carried out by car, so this is undoubtedly a great potential for more bicycle use. We think there needs to be offensive national effort for better and more bike paths. Transport accounts for nearly one third of CO2 emissions in Norway. In the national transport plan, the ambitious objectives of the climate communication are maintained. The target should be one mainly through reduced vehicle fleet emissions and reduced car traffic in metropolitan areas. Emissions per year Kilometers are already falling after the government's green conversion of the charges. Increased use of biofuels and active contributions to the electrification of the fleet will lead to emissions per year. kilometers further downwards. Reduced car traffic in big cities is a demanding but equally important task – a task that must be resolved in close and committed cooperation between the state, regions and municipalities. A key contribution from the State is to enable the railway to take on growth in traffic. The reward scheme is another government tool. The reward scheme and the project «Citys of the Future» are now to be joined and become one of the obligatory cooperation projects with reduced emissions targets. From 2008 to 2009 we double the reward scheme for public transport. Now the reward scheme is to be doubled again. It is part of a national transport plan. The reward scheme will then be 650 million. kr. And the increase will largely fall on the cities that want to agree with the state on a package of positive and restrictive measures. Kristiansand has recently concluded such an agreement, and in the environmental package for Trondheim, which Stortinget has to deal with, such an agreement is also signalled. There is a willingness to apply effective restrictive measures in many cities, and then the clear signal of the majority of the population is that we will contribute financially to financing, for example. increase public transport. The majority also give a clear signal that more stringent requirements should be imposed on urban packages in the future. Examples of requirements are land planning that reduces transport needs, demands for better collective provision and the development of a coherent bicycle road network. The aim is to reduce emissions by increasing public transport and bicycle use in cities. In the setting, the majority of the government is asking to set ambitious targets for public transport in conjunction with counties and city municipalities, for example. within ‘Citys of the future’. The setting also underlines the important role of express buses in long-distance transport between cities, and states and states must actively contribute to the further development of these good services in order to increase the number of passengers. The national transport plan contains many concrete measures to bring the transport sector closer to a universal design over the next ten years, and the disabled organisations – at least many of them – have, in their hearings, been pleased that they are going to work concretely and obligingly for everyone to join, including on buses and trains. Finally, the government has put forward an NTP proposal that is a powerful transport lift, a lift that we need. The Stoltenberg government has shown during this period that they have the will and ability to implement an attached transport plan. The same government will also do with the proposed plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e228	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e231	I note that the only criticism given by the Progress Party is that the framework, that is. The framework of the Progress Party is too big. That's nice. But my question to the representative Rudihagen is more about this with unimpaired use of money. Now we in the Progress Party have at least been honest and sincere in terms of our plans within 25 years, and we have also put the framework in place after that. So the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the next period will build lightning trains – at least NOK 350 billion, perhaps as much as NOK 500 billion. What would the representative Rudihagen call that kind of use of money? Or what would Rudihagen say about the use of money, for example. in Spain, where they will spend NOK 2 500 billion over five to ten years building roads and railways — or in Poland or other EU countries, which spend thousands of billions building infrastructure? Is there also an unimpeded and uninhibited use of money? Or is it just us in the Advance Party, who operate in the world's richest country, who are going to spend 922 billion dollars, which is unprofessional?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e240	First, the amount of money the Progress Party has planned to spend in the next period is a little uncertain. I refer to figures contained in the proposal for a national transport plan, which is just over 900 million. kr. I refer at the same time to Drammen's Official Journal, where it is said that 1 000 billion kroner will only be spent on the road. In addition, one with funds, a return on funds, an operator with loan arrangements, and then I have registered that from the New Year until now, the framework of the Progress Party's transport plan has increased dramatically. That's why there's an impression that the Progress Party is struggling with billions in a val year. When it comes to high-speed trains, we clearly say that we don't have a good enough basis to decide to build a high-speed train now. The reports that have been presented – by Deutsche Bahn and other environment – show that there is a potential. For this reason, we want to move forward with the aim of creating a high-speed rail in the long term. So the statements will show if it's possible to reach... [[Per Sandberg cancels.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e247	President, we are far beyond the lineage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e252	Yes. The next replicator is Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e255	The right considers that project funding models are the way to go. This was also said in the Soria Moria Declaration, but little has happened during this government. On the contrary, the 2007 Yellow Book said that this is not what you want. This favoured the National Labour Party meeting in our poor and adopted the following: ‘In order to ensure the rational development of major transport projects, the Workers’ Party will contribute to project financing of road and rail sections.’ Project financing, as we know it, for example. from Sweden, is not proposed by the majority, and with all due respect: large-scale projects in their own government budget entries are not project funding – it was probably not what the Labour Party national meeting meant either. Is Rudihagen satisfied with the report of the National Labour Party meeting in this case, since it is not mentioned in the vote at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e267	It is mentioned in the setting, it is quite clear that this is our project finance model. Project funding is funding projects. We are concerned that it should be done in such a way that you can achieve rapid, effective and rational progress in the project. The Progress Plan and the Financial Plan provide for three major extensions – two on the road and one on the railway – to have their own posts on the State budget, as the Stortinget decided at the time, so that the Stortinget can follow those projects in particular. I believe that will increase progress and make projects more conservative in a very good way. OPS has been evaluated. OPS has many good features; rapid propulsion. I was concerned that having contracts with contractors responsible for operation and maintenance is positive. However, OPS is not a cheap deployment mode, and there is no reason why the Norwegian State should allow private financing and advances. I am a little over the Right's many suggestions for the OPS project contained in the option. And then it will be... – Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e274	There are liberal black times today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e280	I guess it's not my responsibility to take care of it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e285	It is probably also the responsibility of the representative to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e293	The proposed plan undoubtedly gives rise to a rise in traffic in Norway. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Right that there is one major defect, and that is what is going on in the structure and rational use of the money. I don't want to go into it again, because that's what Rudihagen has already responded to. But in the Christian People's Party, we have put a special focus on this plan, and said that we want to see the transport challenges also with the children's eyes. That is why we have launched an idea of a child's transport plan to which the whole opposition has joined, where we want to take a boost for the road safety of children and young people. The government parties have not wanted to join in the idea that we can integrate in future transport plans a piece that especially looks at the challenges with the children's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e300	The government's party has clearly underlined the special needs of young people in traffic. It applies to walking and cycling roads around schools and traffic safety measures in other ways. We are some with the Christian People's Party in that it is very important in the future to have a special focus on the challenges young people face in traffic. We have underlined this clearly and clearly in the setting. I then argued that the Government in implementing the National Transport Plan follows this with a special focus on young people’s needs, without a need to have a plan of its own dedicated to young people’s needs. It should be an integral part of the work that the Government is about to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e310	I note that the case-rapporteur in the change of line just did not have a very good answer when it came to the criticism of the Progress Party. Despite that, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good progress in the Committee. I would also like to thank the Committee, and the Committee Secretary, for the effective progress we have made. As the rapporteur also points out, this – with the job we have left behind here – has become a comprehensive document on which we have spent some time. I would also like to thank the Council of State and the Department, which have also had a difficult task in relation to all the questions raised by the Committee. We just asked for a few questions, otherwise it has gone well, and I am sure that they in the department have worked high-tech throughout the process. As a little siding, I would also like to thank the cleaners here at the house who have carried over with me, and that my entire room has been full of documents, recordings and hearing statements. I measured it during the weekend and found out that it was approx. three metres of documents. It further leads me to say that what goes on at national level, infrastructure and transport, has a huge commitment around the whole country. Whether you're talking about walking or cycling paths, municipal roads, county roads, highways, highways, railways, planes, coasts – whatever it may be – it's a huge commitment. I want to read some of these letters that I have received from individuals who have shown commitment, and who have also shown that we may have been on the wrong track within transportation for many, many years. I will not mention the name, but there is a person here who has obviously been very busy with the railway, and who writes: railway operation is nothing new, nor is it difficult. But it can be difficult, and our politicians have done it at once. When I used the train every day for three or four years between Oppegård and Oslo East 61 years ago, I got there at the right time every day. So the claim is that 61 years ago, the railways and the NSB in Norway were more reliable than today. It itself says that all politicians should have a bad conscience. Here I quote a former head of the NSB, who claims the following: ‘Double-track and lightning policy bluff’. Time to implement measures. ‘Politics have little credibility in solving transport problems, especially in press areas where most live. In election year, it is promised. Sometimes an empty decision is taken. The implementation of them is waiting. In 1997, I was the head of the NSB to start the renewal of the NSB, with the purchase of the air trains and a quantity of similar trains running for 200 km per hour. The Storting decided at the same time that the sections from Oslo to Halden, Skien and Lillehammer would be expanded with double tracks. A good and responsible decision! It was 12 years ago and little has happened to implement the decision. It is only the debate that has increased in scope. The government’s pointless boast that it spends more money than the previous government on the railway makes hardly the travellers ‘take the wave’. Had travel in Norway been important enough, and had we had a prime minister and several government members who were real community builders – then the three double tracks would be a fact [[in 10 years]] The same could certainly have been said about our roads, about our coast and about our air transport. We are in 2009, and it is so that although the criticism of the Progress Party is going down and one argument remains – and that is that the framework for the Progress Party is too big – I interpret it so that the vast majority of politicians working in the field of transport agree with the ambitions set out in the proposals of the Progress Party. We have put forward a proposal, and we have allowed ourselves to go beyond ten years. In the light of the two quotations that I have read up now, we have also allowed ourselves to put in place the frameworks that are necessary to complete in 25 years. We have ambitions – great ambitions, yes, on a Norwegian scale, but that is unfortunately necessary. Compared to what other countries do, these ambitions are small in heads and ears. I mentioned during the line change here that I could arrange a long list of countries in Europe that are now using several times as many billions on infrastructure as Norway is doing. Countries with a trade deficit every year spend thousands of billion dollars more than Norway does — Spain spends 2,500 billion dollars in ten years. I note that the vast majority in this Chamber take advantage of the opportunity to compare with Europe when it comes to building lightning trains, but to compare them with the rest of Europe when it comes to building other infrastructure – that is not very comparable anymore. The truth is that in the rest of Europe, at least in large parts of Europe, they have completed the first- and second-generation infrastructure and can allow themselves to go in the direction of the third-generation motorway and the lightning train. In Norway, we are struggling with roads over 100 years of age. In 1962 a motorway plan was adopted in this house, and only a few miles have been completed. The railway tracks and our infrastructure are also several decades old. That's why I'm reacting a little bit when the main focus of all the other parties in Stortinget is building lightning trains in South Norway for at least NOK 350 billion. It becomes so hopeless when you have so many deficiencies on all kinds of other infrastructure. Had it been so that Norwegian infrastructure in the road sector, on the railways, in air and at sea had been top modern, yes, then I would have realized that the representative Langeland, the representative of Helleland or the representative of Rudihagen had put forward proposals to build lynch trains. But the vote by the other parties, the majority vote by the government parties that are adopted here without a comma being moved, will not result in anything other than the fact that in 2019 we have an equal amount of lag. That is why we are not just proposing money, but we have proposed a lot of new tools and structural changes. We want to build the motorway network that was adopted in 1962. We also want to do something about ports and fairways, and we want to turn some of our ports into intermodal hubs. We are largely satisfied with what the Government has done in terms of maritime and coastal matters, and therefore we are also in line with the framework laid down by the Government. But we allow ourselves to put forward a proposal to get ports and the coastal transport route as a separate case to look at the whole. We allow ourselves to give priority, and go down from 31 national core ports to 13-14, without depriving the other ports, but to give priority to 10-15 ports with the aim of making them an intermodal hub – as the Stortinget has wanted for 15 years – preferably linked up to road, sea, air and rail. It is possible in almost all the ports designated by the Progress Party as national ports. Aviation will face a major challenge no matter what the incumbent government will do, and no matter what the new government from the harvest will do, because things are happening in relation to competition, the travellers and the charging system. That is why the Progress Party has proposed that we should have a separate matter on aviation as well. We've been stressing that for four years, and we haven't. What we want in the first place is to take care of the position of major airports and remove cross-financing, so that they can use the surplus to facilitate increased traffic and secure the increased traffic imposed on them by politicians. Only through such a system will also the short-haul network and regional airports be salvaged, well noticed if you do as the Progress Party will, and finance these airports through the State budget. We believe that airports will be better off becoming separate units and competing to a much greater extent. I am very pleased that MC has finally received attention in the national transport plan, not because I am running so much MC myself, nor because the president of the Løvebakken MC is running so much MC, but because MC has a natural place, especially in big cities. We also see this development in the rest of Europe. The rescue service is now using MC to a much greater extent in the major cities when calling out. If you're concerned about space shortages, the environment and climate, the MC is in the middle of the blink. But then you also have to think about it when building infrastructure. There has been a discussion over the years, and therefore the Progress Party has today allowed to submit a proposal on MC in the Chamber. In fact, it seems that there is a cross-political consensus in the Committee — with some differences of wording — that the majority of its comments will have its own national strategy for mopeds and MC, while the Progress Party will have nothing to do with it. It is a misunderstanding that emerged yesterday, and that is why I want to correct it today and have put forward a proposal. I take it for granted that this proposal by the Progress Party on a national strategy for mopeds and MC is being unanimously adopted today. Then we've also signaled that we want something about it. I look with horror until 1 January 2010, not because the new government is going to catch up with the new state roads, because the first thing the new government has to do is to reverse it. I cannot grasp and understand with my best will that it is a proper grip to move 17 150 km of road to the counties, at least when one centrally ensures that the means necessary to rust up and keep these roads at home do not follow. I register that the government says that there is money. However, it is true that with regard to the roads to be maintained by the State, a 45 p.m. increase has been proposed, while the 17 150 km road that the State and the Government do not want to have anything to do with it because they are so bad – they are being moved down to the county municipality, and the county municipality is given responsibility for them – barely 9 p.m. raise – if you are kind. It will probably make it easy for the majority in this room in the next round when it comes to new toll requests from desperate state politicians. I don't think it's the right way to go up the other highways to the states that way. I think it's going to be completely wrong. So to structure, as I said, it's not like the Progress Party somehow makes money out without having thought about how to do it. We've been working on this for a long time. It is quite wrong, as the rapporteur, Mr Rudihagen, said, that we have changed the framework from New Year. We have changed the April framework by NOK 100 billion. It's because we've put in a big city package of 100 billion dollars to solve the traffic challenges in our four big cities. We've also done something about the reward scheme for our other sites. If you are going to start a place to get coordination on our journey, you have to do as the Progress Party has said for years. Now we have to bring together transportation within one department, a transport department. The ownership of the companies operating in the transport sector should also be considered to move into such a department of transport. When you do that, you get these modes of transport joined together to a much greater extent, and you get easy leads for both rail, road, ports and planes in terms of thinking like, thinking together, in order to get coordination. Then it's natural that we get a transport directorate that coordinates in exactly the same way, to think about efficiency and coordination in terms of both passengers and freight. If you want more goods on the railways and at sea, it's necessary. We can't do it without coordination in one department and one directorate. The Progress Party has always been the spokesman for roadside supervision, but instead of setting up a new separate supervision now, we should rather bring together the supervision we have in infrastructure, into one transport supervision – preferably independently – perhaps within the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in Stortinget, or otherwise make it very independent from those who rule. That's one piece of structure. The other, dealing with these floors and the institutions working with transport, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Station, the Vegvesenet, Avinor, also needs to be looked at with new eyes. The road system and the railway system must be liberated to a much greater extent, because I believe that there is competence there. I believe that there is a wish there, and I think that there is creativity there in terms of building a lot more road and rail, repairing our ports and doing something with our airports to a much greater extent than we politicians are aware of. I will allow it to be expressed, and then these institutions and agencies must be allowed to free themselves from politicians, be allowed to plan, have business, have much more infrastructure than we see today by having access to borrowings – borrowings that we are to defend through annual appropriations. I think that is a solution that is necessary to speed up our infrastructure. Here I am also willing – and that is not the first time I say it – to make much more use of state regulation, because it is also a handicap today to regulate in place, so that we can start construction. In the case of national infrastructure, it is a national responsibility to ensure that it is put in place as quickly as possible – therefore also state regulation. Then, of course, I am sure that all the representatives in the Committee have read the position and have understood how the Progress Party should finance all of this. One should not fool an infrastructure fund of 300 billion, as proposed by the Progress Party. If you do that, you make fun of an incredible number of people, because I see that the principle is accepted. The principle of infrastructure funds is accepted by the NHO, LO, Right and many others. The Central Party has done so in its own programme – 100 billion in a fund for North Norway. So the principle is accepted. With the business cycle we have now, you're probably going to get a return of just over 15 billion dollars a year. It is a way of creating predictable funding for the plans of the Progress Party. In addition, we must allow small regional companies – municipal authorities in cooperation with private companies – to set up companies and build small and medium-sized road projects. We want that kind of company to be more and more welcomed. 20 minutes is nothing compared to such a large document, but I conclude my contribution by promoting the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote, with others or alone, and the proposals put forward in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e367	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e372	I would also like to thank the Chairman of the Committee for good cooperation in transport planning, as well as for the cooperation within the Committee – as we are at the end of a four-year period – that the Chairman of the Committee has led in a forward-looking way. I have not criticised the ambitions of the Progress Party, but I point to the unrealistic billion promises that the Progress Party comes with – not only when it comes to transportation, but in areas by region. Since it's a val year, I'm going to say that the Progress Party has just thought of choice when they've increased the border on traffic to those degrees. As late as in 2008, the Progress Party held to its current framework. She was $23 billion. And then they add up to $792 billion in the spring, and then they have the plus, as Sandberg says, $100 billion later. How do they manage to implement this in cooperation with the Right and others, which says that such an economic policy is completely out of date?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e381	The Progress Party, like the Workers Party, has been in line with the NTP adopted for 2005-2009. That is what the Workers' Party has also said about inflating and exhaling and being proud of it. We are also proud that we have dealt with the existing NTP, but we also proposed significantly higher appropriations in 2005 – in fact, 75 billion more than what was agreed in the agreement. The Progress Party has now presented a plan that goes forward for 25 years – until 2034 – and we have, unlike the Government and the Workers' Party, actually laid the foundations for our plans. Then it becomes very realistic. I certainly believe that if you talk to those who are professionals, about the needs – I don't least look at the input of the authorities both in relation to the NTP and the standard investigation that came in 2006 – then the Progress Party is about it, and then I think we have an internal path. But I want to repeat: the working party will therefore spend NOK 350 billion on lightning trains, but we can't find one penny for it in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e391	Since we are in favour today, I can also thank the leader of the Committee for pleasant and good cooperation over the years he has run the Committee. So to a problem that the Progress Party is busy by, e.g., lightning, high-speed. Many FrPs are concerned about the major natural interventions that high-speed trains are carrying. The last in a debate in News of the Day eighteen on Friday, the committee leader repeated this as an important argument for going against it. But the problem becomes a little absurd when the Progress Party is going to build 250 miles of highways, which take 50 meters of nature, while a high-speed train takes from 13 to 15 meters of nature, according to the Railway Station. Why isn't the Progress Party with most people in this case? That's what they love to say they are, but in this case they're not with most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e400	I don't know if the representative Langeland bombed a little in his introduction, because he said he was going to bring up a case The progress party was very concerned about, namely the lightning train. We're not busy with lightning trains at all, and our whole setting reflects it. What we are concerned about is implementing an upgrade and modernisation of the existing infrastructure network. There, the Progress Party has put in place framework funding far beyond what the Government has. As I understand it, there are significant parts of the infrastructure we have today, which can be modernised, and trains can get a speed of up to 250 km per hour. The Progress Party believes that priority needs to be given to – as the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre now want to do – using 350 billion kroner for the next period of construction of lightning trains. This with area requirements is the answer to SV, which uses it all the way, even now in the debate. It will be interesting to hear the debate when SV is going to start taking soil, forests and land to build this lynch train. The area intervention is probably 13 to 15 metres, but the safety requirement is probably significantly higher than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e409	Politics is about priority, and the Progress Party should be commended for having given priority to transport high. At the same time, they give priority to other areas, which are important for the Christian People's Party, both in the field of district policy, in agriculture and in the area of unhelp. There are different priorities, and we just have to accept that that's the way it is. To a concrete question as regards the priorities of the national transport plan: an overall committee, without the Progress Party, has made a strong comment that we are to take care of Hurtigruten's sailing patterns and the future of Hurtigruten, and that it is a state responsibility to facilitate that we have a set-up of what we have today. The progressing party writes in a separate note that a new analysis of the transport needs on the route – nothing more. We're wondering how we're going to interpret it. I can't see it any other way than that the conclusion is that the Progress Party will let Hurtigruten sail its own sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e416	Now, in any case, the Hurtigruten shall not sail its own sea; the more ships sail on the same sea. The representative is quite right that we have a different attitude to what is going to happen to the Hurtigruten future, and I think they are, most people think, wise. Now, first of all, there has to be a renegotiation, and this is going to be a debate in any case. We don't want to put any leads on either the sitting government – which the majority here are doing – or the government that is going to take over to the harvest, in relation to what is going to happen to Hurtigruten. I don't think Hurtigruten has served that either. What is absolutely certain is that the Progress Party will continue the Hurtigruten, but how the sailing pattern and the prerequisites for the state to buy services from Hurtigruten in the future will be, we are not willing to decide now, as the majority does.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e423	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e426	The right has found it necessary to promote an overall alternative to the Government’s proposals in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. We believe there are three basic factors for the further development of the transport sector: personal freedom and quality of life competitiveness and productivity a green society People need freedom and quality of life and a safe and secure everyday life. Companies want the best possible conditions to sell their products and services. These basic needs make it necessary to facilitate the rapid, efficient and safe transport of persons and goods. Nature and the environment exist with us, and we need to have a conscious relationship with the interventions we do, and the damage we expose our environment to, and actively work to reduce such damage. In this magnification period, we've had a government that's still repeating that they've met NTP. The right-wing believe this is wrong. Over 40 pst. cost increases have not given us several kilometres of road. A number of projects that should have been started have not started, and the errors and deficiencies of roads and railways are greater than ever. Lack of innovation and direct resistance to modern forms of financing have slowed development. Unfortunately, this seems to continue. The government boasts of all the money they've spent. Yes, they have money, but that's all they have! Four years – not just with ideological skyscrapers, but in ideological tunnel darkness – go to the end. The task is queued. Let's get started. Let's build the roads twice as fast, and let's make better use of the resources. The right will have a comprehensive and rapid road development, as there is a need for transport in society that needs to be met. Let's get started, let's use OPS -- put ideology aside, and use the best solutions. On the right, there will be a sharp increase in government appropriations for new construction and maintenance in the transport sector. We're going to spend $107 billion building new highways. That's NOK 31 billion – or 40.4 pst. – more than the Government’s proposals in the National Transport Plan. Gross domestic product, GDP, was DKK thousand billion higher in 2009 than in 2000, measured in 2008 kroner. Nevertheless, only 8.3 billion kroner were spent on road and rail combined in 2009 than in 2000. The economic space we have had has not been spent on long-term investments such as roads, knowledge and good conditions for businesses. The action rule for the oil fund, or the State pension fund abroad, which was agreed by a large majority of the parties to the Stortinget in 2001, states that the yield of the oil fund is to be used for investments that generate growth for the future. The rule is that money should be used to invest in Norway, in knowledge, infrastructure and tax incentives that provide better conditions for growth in business and society as a whole. Unfortunately, the Stoltenberg II government has only used 20 pst. of the oil money of such forward-looking measures during their term of government. Right will spend the approximately 500 billion kroner that the oil fund will get in the next few years, on exactly what our country needs most: better and safer roads, rail, maritime and aviation. In addition, we must invest in education and give companies conditions that make them sound, also in competition with enterprises in other countries. The needs are great, and the wish lists are long. The right says yes to long extension sections and no to climbing. The right says yes to continuous expansion and no to annual budget road extensions. Had we done with the E18 through Westfold as we do with the OPS project Grimstad-Kristiansand, the E18 to Tønsberg had been completed four years and two months earlier. Then we might have finished the new E18 through Vestfold, worked through Telemark and captured the last bit through East Agder now. We have to increase the planning capacity, so that we actually have something to build out when the money is available. Look at the crisis package of the Government – is it going to be a boost to road construction? No, there's going to be a rock here and a rock there. There's no money, and there's no plan. The only reform proposed by the Government in this period is to transfer 17,000 kilometers of highway to the states. It's a smart move. The counties will be seated at almost 40,000 kilometers of road and the state at 8,000 kilometers of highway. The problem was that state politicians had read the law. It states that if a road is to be transferred from one owner to another, it shall be in good condition. This could be expensive for the country. How can we avoid the problem of roads being in good condition? Of course, we change the law and relieve the state of responsibility. The right said no and said no to the state discharge. Right takes responsibility – we don't push it away. The highways must be held responsible by the state, the maturities must be stopped. Let's get started with Oslopackack 3, let's build the Coastal Route, let's get four-field road to Hønefoss, let's build E6 through the Gudbrand Valley and the whole of E18 to Kristiansand. Build the Hålogalandsbrua, finish the E6 west of Alta, and let the drones get an entrance to Trondheim that doesn't resemble a highway. There's a lot to think about, but then we have to think about new things. The climate challenge is not eliminated by the financial crisis, on the contrary. If we are to get out of the crisis, we must think ahead. Right will think green and trade blue. We're technology optimists. Let's use the technology to improve traffic management, let's strengthen public transport where it's based. Norway is built for cars, but in and around the larger cities we need buses, trains and tracks. Get rid of the bottlenecks on the railway, facilitate your own superbustrases and the rate of CO2-neutral transport. Right will offer drivers a better life, a life without queue, cork and chaos. People aren't in line because they like it, but because there are not enough alternatives. Save us the rush time charge, we'll pay enough tolls as we do. I pay NOK 37.50 to drive to Oslo – and today I had to drive, because I was a little unsure about the train – and it was right to choose that transport solution today. In Sweden, the much-mentioned rush time fee, which the red-greens have embraced, is at a maximum of 26 Swedish kroner. So you pay 11.50 more to drive into Oslo than you do to Stockholm. Nevertheless, they are red-green for additional charges for the drivers. How much do the socialists want us to pay because the goods have to come out, because people have to go to work, because the grandchildren have to deliver in kindergarten? Navarsete, Stoltenberg and Langeland are going to have to stand with the whip, we're going to distribute carrots. That is why we are proposing to increase the reward scheme to NOK 1 billion. But we set out of NOK 3 billion for the development of urban railways and our own collective tracks. We want municipalities to be responsible for public transport so that land and transport planning can go hand in hand. And then we need competition. NSB needs competition, the railway company needs restructuring, and we as commuters need trains that go – and that they are on track when they go! Right wants to stop the lapse, that's why we have a maintenance fund for road and rail of 50 billion kroner, this fund is supposed to ensure that the roads are maintained, that the holes in the road are sealed, and that the overhead line on the railway ends this down. We have to sort out the infrastructure through good maintenance, and when we build new ones, we have to build for the future. In order to cope with this, the planning tools need to be improved, the Road Administration and the Railway Agency need to be reorganised and to provide more space for action, the cost-benefit analyses need to be replaced by wider socio-economic profitability assessments, and the planning reserves need to be built up. It is a paradox that in this transport plan, there are two road projects that are cost-effective in terms of cost-benefit. Then it is no wonder that it is difficult to get through for a real commitment to transportation. We're tired of climbing policy, we want more overall governance, and we need to get more use of OPS. We therefore propose a whole 23 new OPS project. In doing so, we want to start developing three-four projects each year during the planning period. It has proved to be a good way to finance and organise projects, and progress has shown that a new path is twice as fast. This saves human life, it saves business for costs, and normal drivers feel that they get something back for the fees they pay. After the national meetings of the Workers' Party and the Centre, we were excited about whether project funding decisions would lead to changes and more intensely into the NTP treatment. The conclusion is that the national meeting sounds like a mouse in the NTP settings. The word ‘project finance’ has been deleted. Right wants people to come forward faster and safely home. We want to think new, we want to bet on road safety and accessibility. We want to use carrots, not whips. We will bet on the bus and lane where there is a basis for it, and on the way and ferry where it is natural. Finally, in Oslopackak 3, which we are also dealing with today, there was a milestone yesterday, and the Right is pleased that the development of important road projects in the Oslo region, the E18 West Corridor, the E16 Sandvika–Wøyen, the Manglerud Tunnel and other good projects is now taking place and that a broad and offensive collective effort is being launched, among others. with the Kolsåssbanen. I would like to include the Right proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e481	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e486	The representative of Greece accuses everyone else of wearing the ideological skyscrapers, but it may seem that it's just the Right who has it. We have, as the representative Rudihagen says, learned something from OPS. We see that there's an opportunity to think completely, and that's a good way to see things in context. But we also agree with the Construction Industry Association and the Entrepreneurship Association – Construction and Construction that the benefits of OPS are primarily related to contract form. We also agree with them that it is unnecessary for contractors to raise loans on behalf of the state to finance state infrastructure. In 2009, we're paying 380 million. NOK for three projects, and we will do so for a few years to come. What are the sizes of the bonds going to be with the Right 23 projects? Will future policy-makers be completely deprived of the opportunity to enter into new projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e493	I haven't accused all parties of having ideological skyscrapers. I have accused the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party of having it, namely the government parties. This period has been marked by the fact that there has been a complete drought of reform. I mentioned one reform, and it's the county roads. Otherwise, everything that goes on competitive launching, everything that goes on restructuring, everything that goes on innovation in transport, is parked – it's dug down, and it's gone. That is why the Right has used this period well, in my opinion, to find new ways of moving forward in the transport policy. What is so positive is that both the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right Party can gather around a series of steps to modernize Norwegian transport. OPS is one of the responses. The problem with the government is that they have no answers. Project funding has been removed; it is gone. Therefore, Wickholm does not have anything he should have said about talking about new forms of projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e500	It's fun to have the Right out of Government -- I'm just thinking about the post Greece had held with Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance, he might have had a lot less ambition than I'm hearing right now. Now he's almost similar to the Progress Party with the exception of a point, and it's that the Right has reason when it comes to bet on lightning trains, at least now when they're out of government. But the problem for the Right is that they add to a problem that it should be profitable, while they go for the construction of motorways that will be able to remove the passenger base, and they go for the bet on aircraft, which will also be able to remove the passenger base of the lightning train. This is not entirely up to date, comrade Helleland, so you need to explain how to proceed financially. After all, climate accounting will be miserable. But I understand that right no longer cares, when one sees what they do in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e507	The President would remind you that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e511	One of the reasons why I am not a ‘company’ with the representatives of Langeland in terms of transport policy is that SV has a one-sided focus on rail. That's important, and we in the Right believe it's very important now to build up the intercity triangle at a speed of 250 km/h where there are new sections to expand. Then we want to go on high-speed if the operation of this can be profitable. This is not instead of a car. One cannot take a high-speed train to work – at least not if it is in a slanted back street in a city. Then one has to take a bus, or one might take a car. Hallgeir Langeland's problem is that SV unilaterally focuses on the railway. Right wants to bet on really good roads between Norwegian cities. We want to get away from the jumbo place we're in in Europe. That's why we need to upgrade the road network, so we're betting the extra funds we have on the road network, but we're on the high-speed rail as an alternative to aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e518	The representative of Greece says that the undersigned has nothing to do with modernism. At least it's not so very modern that private building roads. I guess that's what kings and corporations did in real old days. So eventually the state has taken over it. So the big reform in it, it's going to be hard to see. I have the impression that the Right now uses OPS in the same way that the Advance Party uses oil money – they wrap them around them, and about all the major road projects in the country have now been upgraded to the OPS status in the Right proposal. Is that how the Right shall escape the skepticism and cooperation with the Advance Party? Per-Kristian Foss has said that it will be impractical to cooperate with the Progress Party when they run the economic policy they are doing. Is this the Right Way to reinvent the concept of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e527	The case-law of the Court of Justice selected three main political issues for this election: school, tax and transport. We have said that the yield of the oil fund should follow the guidelines laid down by the Storting, namely that a third should go to infrastructure. Had it been followed up, also by the previous government, and that before there again, we had had a completely different situation today. Then we might have been, as I said in my post, through Vestfold and Telemark with E18. Then we might have been upgrading the railway as really monnet. What's the problem, and we all have to share responsibility for, is that it's been too much climbing. There has been too little overall planning. There's been too little progress. OPS is one instrument. The right has been positive for project funding. We supported the proposals contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. The problem was that the government parties did not support them themselves. They removed it from the Soria Moria Declaration through the Yellow Book two to three years ago. And it's gone!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e539	100 years after Bergensbanen opened, we are on our way into the railway’s new century – the century of high-speed trains in Norway! Rogaland SV suggested 15 years ago to go in for this. Then we were criticized and ridiculed. Now there's a bunch of caverns, except for the Progress Party, which stands behind having a high-speed train as its destination. It's SV happy with. Now it's just the triangle Progress Party, VG and Hegnar that are opposed to this, while church councils, environmental and trade unions and youth organisations all support this. The triangle fears that we won't have to pave the way for highways. They want more polluting car and train traffic. There will be less need for motorways and asphalt on the high-speed train. There'll be fewer traffic fatalities. There will be fewer of the 500,000 that are now being plagued by traffic noise. There will be less need for impenetrable air traffic, and no need to expand Gardermoen and Flesland. They can step down. Ideas show that most people want high-speed trains. Most people have to listen to them, not overrun them with increasing, noisy and impending air and motorway traffic. Let me take a couple of reasons why Rogaland SV has been working for 15 years and SV has been working for the future, profitable and green project in Norway for six years. First of all, there are no Europeans who spend as much time as we do. We got three times more than the Swedes, and four times as much as the Finns. Air travel is impure and up to 10 times as energy consuming as the train. The high-speed train between Oslo, Trondheim, Haugesund and Bergen will reduce the corresponding emissions from 700,000 cars. Secondly, the passenger base is good. Fortunately, we don't have motorways between the largest cities, like in Europe, and the distance is ideal – more than 50 miles. This means that the potential for moving goods and passengers from path to path is extra big. With four fields, the Prom and Right will pave the way to the cities. It doesn't want the government, and it won't. SV would rather realize a green vision for Norway. In it binds me parts of the country and regions together without greenhouse gas emissions and dwindling traffic noise. I'm just going on the train in Stavanger, and then I'm in Oslo in just over two hours. By the way, I think I could have stopped and talked about trains and central development with the SV coordinator in Vinje a couple of hours, and then took the next train from there and all the way forward! So the high-speed train is not only a city for urban projects, it will also be able to develop and develop regions and districts. Railway is not a short-term project – it's a green community-building project, and it doesn't mean Norway is slowing down. Norway only does what Turkey, Spain, Morocco, Vietnam, China, Argentina, the United States and Sweden do. The Norwegian industry was at Dagsnytt and complained today and was critical of the Ministry of Transport and the Swedish Railway Agency for this with high-speed trains. I agree that there have been very strong reasons to criticise it in the past, not least a former railway director was very clear about this. But on Tuesday this week it was said from the Railway Agency that Oslo–Porsgrund is ready for high-speed trains. I expect that Pors Foundation is elected because it is the Minister of Finance's birthplace. But in any case, what is now happening at the Railway Station will also lead to the extension of the connection with the Southern Railway. That's Oslo-Ski. Oslo-Ski must be built as the first step towards Gothenburg and Europe. We don't have to wait all the terms before we start. We can adjust to some of the plans we have, and start next year, and then we'll have to do a thorough analysis of the rest. Of course. So 100 years after opening up the Bergensbanen, we're running on the railway's new hundred years. At the SV national meeting we thought that the framework of the national transport plan was too small for trains. We're increasing the frame to $10 billion, which is a double in relation to what's agreed. SV would thus have had 50 billion more kroner to spend on train betting in Norway. It's an important signal to people about who prioritizes this, rather than what the right-hand side prioritizes, more motorways – actually 250 miles of highways from the Progress Party's side. With SV's train effort we had had money for Ringeriksbanen, Drangsdal, connection between south and west, electrification, some upgrades to Stockholm, etc. But I'm still happy that we have come as far as we have in this National Transport Plan. But the ambitions of SV are much greater when it comes to train effort. Cross-tracking mode is not least important. Through the national transport plan, we have now made sure to move much more goods away from the road. It ensures lower greenhouse gas emissions. It also ensures fewer traffic fatalities, and it ensures greater ignition for industry, as the Minister of Transport said on the news today. I have spoken to both Cargonett and Erling Överland in Schenker. They're very happy that we're so big on the crossing tracks. They consume it, and it consumes the environment. It is also important to point out that the large majority – I believe almost everyone – are very clear that the anti-discrimination law must be followed up. Universal execution shall not be re-transmitted on the whole travel pattern. We should not have the discrimination we have had for a long time within transport. This has to go away. The government is adding city packages, and that's good. We use several ways, including: The reward scheme when we go in to make cities more environmentally friendly. Kristiansand has an appointment. Trondheim and Drammen probably also get an appointment. This is based on the fact that we now have a lot more money for the reward scheme. When we took over after Skogsholm and Left, it was 160 million. kr to the reward scheme. Now it's 323 million. kr, and it should increase to 640 million. kr. So we're showing with money that we're serious about doing something in the urban environment. And the climate agreement is clear here. If you want to get money from the reward scheme, you need to take measures to reduce car traffic. I now note that the Right Party and the Advance Party in Oslo are merging projects that will increase car traffic, and I wonder if Right – Halleraker and Helleland – will break out of the climate agreement, which Erna Solberg has signed on, or whether they are taking a distance from what is happening in Oslo, given the climate agreement they have been on, which means reducing car traffic. Now they add up to increase it. So it's important to clarify whether right here actually goes out of the climate deal with this escalation in Oslo. We also need to look at the types of other measures that help urban areas. I think it is very good that the business community now has to invest more on the Swedish Government than on the right side, because we are actually in favour of this with a rush-time charge, which is important for the NHO. They say, of course, that a rush-time charge will benefit from the climate, but it will also lead us to feel more money. And we record that the right-hand side of Norway is busy with the fact that the business community is still going to lose money on standing in long cars together with the private car list. It is the practical policy of the right when they do not want to be involved in what business is asking for, but they actually distance themselves from systems that prove to be working abroad. So now it's the government party and not the right-hand side of Norwegian politics that's most important for business. Not least in my area – Nord-Jären – transport accounts for approx. 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. Then we have to look at the parking policy. Then we have to make sure that we have a running-time charge, and then we have to do restrictive things according to the climate agreement. But then of course we also have to have a carrot, and it is clear that we at Stortinget – a broad majority, and not least from SV – have to be clear that the state has to go heavily into these urban railway packages as one has to go around the country when the locals have agreed. Then we have also got an offensive bet on a bicycle. It is absurd to reward cyclists in the same way as a rewarder drivers, that those who drive a car get paid better than those who bike to work. It doesn't make any sense. It must be the way to reward those who keep their health on the same and trim to work, not those who are in a car and foreurs. They shouldn't be rewarded for saying it all, so now we're going to look at it more closely. So add the Progress Party in an invitation to me to a conflict with a multiple when it's related to MC. A broad plural, based on me as president of the Lion Hill MC Club, takes up just the things the motorcycle union has wanted, we look at a moped and motorcycle strategy. They've all joined up to that. There is only one reason why the Progress Party reports itself out of it. It's because they're going to stand alone and be depressed instead of being with us and doing what we can actually do together. The intention of Sandberg's proposal on MC today is to have the proposal put to the vote. If not, he could only have joined what the plural says. But he's guessing his strategy, and that's getting depressed. For SV, it is important to distinguish between city and country in policy. We cannot have the same policy in the country as in the city. I know that coming from Tau, where a often depends on the ferry and the car if you're going to move. There must be one policy, and then of course one must have a completely different policy for the city. Here we have to differentiate, and I think we have found a good balance in government. National transport plan is undoubtedly a compromise. Many of the motorway projects that are now being built on the basis of this government had not been built with 50 pst. SV voices. It says itself. People understand that. But the total product is good. Of course, many giant projects had disappeared altogether if SV had decided, among other things. in my own state – Rogfast and Ryfast had not been mentioned in the whole, but forgot like climate bombs. But now nothing is safe with these projects until the next NTP rollout. I think it's important that the committee is very clear when it comes to Route 1, the fast route, that it is really being properly supported. As a Rogaland and Stavanger patriot, of course, I support an initiative to assess calls further south, if it turns out that there can be good money in getting some of the oily rogalends on the fast route. There's at least enough of the rich there, so it's possible that there's a larger market for the fast route if one sails further south. The Constitution expires on 17 May 2014. I hope it will be the day when the Prime Minister of Norway makes a hard case and cuts off the first line of a high-speed network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e591	It was interesting to hear Langeland ram up a number of countries that were positive and would build the high-speed rail. I'm recording that he forgot his good friends in Cuba, but it's maybe because they're going to build a highway and not a high-speed train. I also find it interesting to hear about Langeland after hearing that Secretary of State Lahnstein has been out and in many ways slaughtered the entire high-speed project and said that this is far ahead of time. That is what the representative, Mr Rudihagen, did earlier today. The big question is whether it is Rudihagen and the Workers' Party and Lahnstein that have the right stage on high-speed trains, or whether it is Langeland that has the right stage of building high-speed trains in the coming years. At least there's no doubt that there's a big difference between what Rudihagen said earlier today, and what Langeland is saying now. I also want to challenge Langeland on which routes in the road sector he is going to go down or stop the development. Because he has said that he will take money from the road and move over on the high-speed rail. Is it E18, is it E6, or where is Langeland going to get his money?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e600	If a question about Langeland has the fasit, the answer is yes. Of course I have the fasit. No one else has the fait accompli of transport policy. That's very clear. At its national meeting, SV had a decision of NOK 10 billion per year on a train effort. There is the answer to some part of the question. Rudihagen and Lahnstein are clear that a high-speed train is a destination. The representative Hoksrud did not see Lahnstein when he took the train to Porsgrund – the representative’s home district – and simply threaten some of the selection basis of the Progress Party by bringing lightning trains instead of by car – mass asphalt and exhaust. I see the Ministry of Transport, the Jerbanesverket, Rudihagen and all the parties here on the Stortinget, as positive to have a lightning train as a goal. That's my starting point. So then I work for the West Corridor, then I work for Oslo–Ski – and then we're on our way. That the progress part will not be included is because they give priority to one thing, and that is the motorway and the exhaust gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e607	First, I have to remind Langeland that it was the bourgeois parties that wanted the reward scheme and its doubling into the climate agreement. Langeland turns around with incalculable criticism of the Right and other parties, in a known style. Therefore, I will try to be particularly factual and ask questions on the basis of very specific wording. In its programme, SV states that ‘all new vehicles in public activities should be able to run on renewable or zero-emission energy sources from 2010’. There are great ambitions – there are six months ahead. The right has been a driver for this in the climate agreement, but once again it does: SV does not support proposals from the Right at this point. We are promoting a proposal in this setting on which we are not supported by SV. Why will SV not support the 2014 proposal for climate-neutral public vehicles?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e614	This could be Øyvind Halleraker all about. They have seats in government, had Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance and got no to most of what they have proposed. In this period, right out of government offices, they're offensive to the environment and offensive to the lightning. They are offensive on quite a lot – a little too much FrP offensive on the road. But it's actually very good that they're out of the office, because then I feel that in some environmental issues they're more in line with SV. That's good. It's the same way that the background is that we're three parties in government – we have to be some of what we do together, and then SV has its own policies, which we like to follow up on. But there are three parties in government, and then we have to reach compromise. This really knows everything about Halleraker, so he didn't have to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e623	The representative of Langeland went high when it came to doubling the funds for the reward scheme. It is very good that the funds have doubled. But as we looked a little bit closer to this, we saw that you've taken a little bit of a trick by changing the criteria and adding that these funds should also go to the construction of walking and cycling routes. This means that the original reward scheme is initially weakened. I'm going to be willing to say that we might stay at the same level when it comes to rewarding extra bets on public transport. The Christian People's Party has proposed its own reward scheme for walking and cycling routes linked to what we call Barna's transport plan, and has been endorsed by the non-socialist parties on it. But the government parties were not present, neither was SV. My question to Langeland is whether he would like to support such a scheme in the future. And: Why have a changed criteria for the reward scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e631	That's going to be a little bit of the same answer to Jan Sahl as to Halleraker, and that's that there are three parties in the government, and then one knows that can't get through for anything. I thought that the idea of the Christian People's Party, which I myself have had when I was in opposition, with a separate reward scheme for bicycles, is an idea that one should think about further, as a constructive input. But this time it didn't reach. What one Christian People's Party says about a separate transport plan for children, I also thought is an interesting proposal, which we'll see in the future. Today it is that I cannot support them, but I thought the Government and we should look at them in the future. The reward system has strengthened us enormously financially. This means that we can afford more, and we would like to have other measures, than what was originally in place. It must be the answer to the question when it relates to the reward scheme, which I and the House think should be even greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e639	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the thorough handling of this matter. We should have seen that the government parties had shown a little greater willingness to compromise on such an important matter, but now we just have to put it behind us. The Christian People's Party is committed to putting in place an offensive policy on transport for the years to come. National transport plan provides a framework for transport policy for several years to come. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, we would have been served by a government that would seek a wider majority in important matters. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Fortunately, however, all parties on the non-social side are offensive and clear in their priorities. With a non-socialist majority after the elections, there is no doubt that the transport sector will be significantly strengthened in the coming years. The setting makes it clear. The Minister of Transport and the red-green representatives of the Storting boast that they spend much more money on transport than the previous government did. But let it now be quite clear: the Christian People's Party has voted for every single crown this government has proposed for the purpose of transport. Yes, we are proposing more than the Government, and we are promoting proposals that will provide more efficient use of the chauffeurs. In the national transport plan, the Christian People's Party is showing the will to bet and the will to give priority to transport. The fact that the government spends more money than previous governments is not a big point, when you think about the developments that have occurred in those years. The resources we dispose of are increasing. No government has ever been around – and that is right – to spend as much money as today’s red-green government. In fact, today's government has had a staggering NOK 250 billion more to travel with than the previous one. Only in the election year, the Stoltenberg government spends NOK 100 billion more than the Bondevik government could do in 2005. It's not the most demanding thing in the world to spend money. With 250 billion more to travel with, it would be an achievement if you didn't give more to transportation. So now I sincerely hope that the red-green rhetoric is put to death, so that we can rather concentrate on creating the best possible transport solutions for the country as a whole. Today, the Christian People's Party is proposing a strong commitment to road safety. The big deal's vision that no one will be hurt or killed in traffic, we want to take it seriously. Then there is a considerable need for greater effort than the government adds. That is why we are proposing to increase the framework by DKK 15 billion for measures that improve traffic safety. In addition to increased appropriations, it is absolutely necessary to do something about the way we finance transport projects in Norway. I am disappointed that the Government does not propose new forms of funding. The government does not respond to the challenge we face with clumsy expansions and unpredictable financing. We know from experience that reorganization is essential for the more efficient and coherent development of safe roads in Norway. The Christian People's Party has proposed measures that will ensure that funding for transport projects becomes more long-term and predictable, while increasing the rate of investment both on the road and on the road. If the road is to be built, it must be built completely, not piecefully and divided as a result of changing priorities from year to year. The government has selected some projects that receive a separate entry in the budget. It's okay, and it's also presented as the Government's form of project finance. Well, the expansion will still depend on annual budgetary decisions, and it will take years before we get safer roads. The government has an almost ideological resistance to project financing. It's a little forward-looking. It should be unnecessary to let ideology take precedence over practical and good solutions. We in the Christian People's Party are busy with the cyclists. Bike is healthy and environmentally friendly. The government has put forward its own bike strategy, as the Christian People's Party has proposed, and allocations to walking and cycling routes are increasing. That's very good. The government should have boasted about this, but the Christian People's Party wants more. One of the main challenges in walking and cycling is to get municipalities to adopt regulatory plans that provide the best solutions. That is why we need our own reward scheme for this purpose. I believe that such a scheme will benefit many municipalities and county councils. That's why we're promoting proposals on this, and we're adding 5 billion kroner – 500 million. kr per. years – to a reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. It is particularly important that walking and cycling routes are built on busy routes where children and young people travel. It is my clear belief that the national transport plan does not take the traffic challenges seriously for children and young people. Everyone shall have the right to a safe school path. That is why the Christian People's Party will have its own Barna's transport plan, and we are proposing this. In subsequent regulation of the national transport plan, Barna’s transport plan must become an integral part of it, so that we can see different initiatives in a context. If we are to give our children a safe upbringing, we must ensure that the transport system takes care of children and young people. The transport plan of a child of its own shall help to identify specific challenges relating to the traffic situation of children and young people. A broad review is needed, and concrete proposals for action are needed. We have to make everyday life safer and safer for the children. Such is the situation today, travelling children, cyclists, wheelchair users and pushchairs in many places in the same driving area as heavy traffic, cars and tractors. We can't have it that way. Much more needs to be invested in the development of safe school roads and walking and cycling routes. Planning resources and more money are needed for investment. I refer you to the position, where concrete measures are described in more detail. Then we have to make sure that the growing family has clean air to breathe in. The transport sector has a significant responsibility to reduce climate change emissions. We take this seriously in the Christian People's Party. But that doesn't mean we're not going to build roads. In fact, better roads can bring environmental benefits if we ensure that the newly built roads do not get significantly increased traffic. The most important thing is that we see the different instruments in the context: increasing the reward system, rail investment, reconversion of vehicle-related taxes and charges to promote low-emission and zero-emission options, stricter emission requirements for state purchases of passenger cars, environmental car premiums, investment in research and development of new technologies. This is the way we have to go. We must encourage environmentally friendly solutions and facilitate people's choices. I am pleased that this is now a large majority for an offensive initiative on fast trains. It's a huge amount of work that needs to be done, and I assume that the government is setting the pace. I also register that several parties now want to connect Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen. It has worked too long for the Christian People's Party, and we prioritise planning resources for this project in the first part of the planning period. Now it's time to get started. It is also with pleasure that I record that the Christian People's Party has got the majority with it on an obliging note regarding the fast route. Now there is no doubt that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that in the future there will also be daily sailings with a fast route from Bergen to Kirkenes. I expect the Council of State, after new signals yesterday, to speed up the process, which has taken too much time. From this pulpit the Minister of Transport promised that the Stortinget would be presented with the tender criteria before the tender was made. Then came the message that the matter was postponed to the fall because the department did not have the power to get to the goal with the proposition before the summer holiday. Then the Minister of Transport will speak in the north and promise to get the matter speeded up, with the promise that the tender criteria will ensure an offer close to today's sailing pattern. Now the time is running out to get the matter up in this big deal. Does the Minister continue to state that the tender criteria are to be applied to the Stortinget? And, what might be the consequence of that? With regard to the administrative reform and the financial framework that the Government has set up there, I refer to the Christian People's Party's proposal in the vote on the municipal bill, where we propose to increase the state framework by DKK 1 billion in addition to the Government's proposal. With this I address the proposal of the Christian People's Party as well as proposals that the Christian People's Party has tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e683	The representative Jan Sahl has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e688	During the debate on the NTP four years ago, the representatives of the Christian People's Party repeatedly warned that the 22 billion as the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre were, at that time in relation to the Bondevik government, ‘air money’ was unrealistic and would not be implemented. The government of Stoltenberg has now implemented this decision and has shown that it is possible to prioritise transportation. And not enough: we've also added 100 billion to the next ten years. One would believe from the debate that was four years ago that the Christian People's Party would now cut into the framework of its proposal. But what do they do? Well, the Christian People's Party is adding another 15 billion. Would the representative say that the increase is realistic, in the light of the debate four years ago, or is it simply ‘air money’? Why has the Christian People’s Party turned around?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e695	I acknowledge that I used the term “air money”. But now we have a discussion about how the state was four years ago, and how the state is today. We live in a developing society. Based on the economic situation in which the then government was in, our attitude was that there was no room to add on with the 22 billion per. years, and I used the expression "air billions" about it. But then there has been a development over time, which I expressed in my post, where there has become a significantly larger room for spending money. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said for a while that if it was a time when we were going to spend money, it was now. At that time, there has been a development that has allowed for the implementation of the national transport plan and has even been over-implemented. The Christian People's Party has participated in all the amounts that have been granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e702	I would draw the attention of the representative Sahl to chapter 8.2 of the vote, because there is a Christian People's Party with the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Left on a note. It says: ‘That is why these members want to prioritise investment and maintenance of the road network the highest. These members consider the possibilities that individual individuals have for the use of a car, both for work and recreation, to be positive, and to improve the quality of life of individuals. In competition with rail, the car has a superior competitive advantage; speed, flexibility, and not least economics can be mentioned here.’ There is a Christian People's Party behind it. How does the representative Sahl get it to harmonize with the proposal to build high-speed trains, or high-speed trains, to NOK 350 billion in the next period, when one does not prioritize roads higher than what one does in its options in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e712	With regard to the construction of high-speed trains, or ‘lyn trains’, used by the representative Sandberg as a concept of this, the Christian People's Party has always been aware that we are going to take a bet of the order of NOK 350 billion and build lightning trains between the largest cities in South Norway, there must be an extraordinary effort, funds taken outside the other frameworks laid down in the national transport plan. There is no room for such amounts within the priorities set there. The Christian People's Party's priorities for roads are firm, and what is stated in the remark, we are in favour. If we're going to build a lightning train, there has to be an extraordinary effort, funds taken out of the framework we have today within the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e717	The Christian People's Party is going to choose to remove the red-green government, and that must mean that they have to cooperate with the Progress Party. This party doesn't care about the environment, about delimiting car use in and around the big cities, where motorism is a big and growing problem. The representative, Sahl, mentions in his speech a desire for the Government to have been involved in a compromise in the transport policy and in the NTP. But what compromise has the Christian People’s Party sought? Is it one that goes in the direction of the red-green government's policy, or in the direction of its Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e724	I note that we have now been in a minority for four years in the Transport and Communications Committee and have tried to cooperate with the current government. I can, without taking too many words in my mouth, not refer to a single area in which we have managed to find together with the sitting government. It has always been a closed protocol when we have come to the point of giving matters to the committee. So our experience of working with the red-greens is not of the good kind, to put it simply. Then I would remind you that it is quite right that the Christian People's Party has said that we want the red-green majority government replaced. At the same time, however, we have said that we do not support a government that we ourselves do not share. With regard to our relationship with the Progress Party, we have said that we cannot sit in government with that party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e733	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e737	Seeing the goal clearly is in a way to create the future in advance. We know where we want to be politically, we have a direction for our work and can approach step by step the future we want. At best, politics is a force field, an activity, a phenomenon that reflects the present, and partly characterizes the future. Political leaders, decisions and promises have seen signs, and politics can be maps of the terrain, so to speak, emerging after. Rarely is this more visible than in the very transport policy. There's a policy behind a bridge coming in. It's political decisions that make the mountain get a tunnel through it osb. In the transport policy, the main views and discussions on the specific road sections and racial protection projects alternate. This shall be combined in the national transport plan. What kind of society and future are we looking at, and how are we going to get there? We in the Center Party are working for a future in which people and communities, both in the city and in the city, are able to exploit resources in a resilient way, with a value creation based on natural aspirations, creativity and on the move. Good communications and a likely infrastructure are a key element of each forward-looking society. A green future requires new solutions both in terms of infrastructure and technology linked to driving time. In order to approach the goal of sustainable social development and value creation in all parts of the country, we have led a differentiated policy with relatively more to rail and public transport in the nation's territory, while we have made significant efforts on the roads in the large parts of the country where there is no railway. This policy must continue, and the pace must increase sharply. Furthermore, we need to facilitate environmental cars. We in the Center Party are aware that we do not want private car life in those areas where public transport is not a real alternative, and there are many places. That's why we've fixed a high-end wrecker to get old and impure cars out of traffic. That's why we're going to use other tools to make a quick transition to a newer car park, where environmentally friendly technology doesn't necessarily sit in the front seat, but in the top seat. What is going to be such an important grip in the policy on transport over the next decade? We're increasing the scope of the piercing system to stimulate more and better public transport and less car use in cities. We set up several holiday settlement projects by doubling the period in which these projects can be paid for, from 15 to 30 years. Not being in a ferry queue or losing the last ferry at night will be a major step forward for both private and business transport in many districts. Moreover, by means of the new interest-rate compensation scheme, the state will be able to raise interest-free loans that are suitable for taking away important investments without directly undermining the maintenance of the operating budget for the years when there are investment peaks. The management reform is an important act in itself for all of us who want greater delegation of power and form to the regional level. When most of the highways become highways from the new year, the county will be given ownership and responsibility for a particularly important part of the road network, and the county can even more cultivate the role of a regional development operator. At the same time, it is determined emphatically that the State has overseen the responsibility for the financial capacity of the county to carry out this task in a good way. Sub-funded reforms are bad reforms. As a result, it is important to actively work for reasonable promises to the counties even in the years that come after 2010. So over to an important and fair principle and grip that many people have been waiting for: universal design as a field of activity is high in this transport plan. Accessibility for everyone is a keyword that shows a direction for our work. What we in the Center Party are busy about is developing the TT system, so that it gives a much better supply to the users who need it the most to live an active life. Furthermore, it must be noted that transport is more than road and track. A forward-looking policy to stimulate more maritime transport is an important step in the national transport plan. It's about a more sensible charging policy, it's about promises to improve ports and shipowners, and it's about an exciting project called the City Ship Tunnel. Location is one of the most distant points along our coast. A solution to get ships and boats safely past here could mean a lot for shipping. There is a start-up license to this tunnel at the end of the planning period, but I think it is absolutely relevant to consider whether this project can be done before. It will also push us closer to the goal of getting far more goods on the keel. When it comes to air traffic, it has been important for us in the Central Party and in the Government to see that the airport structure is to be maintained, that investments are to be made to ensure that communities around our long-term country have access to the only public transport that air transport actually represents in many places. The dark side of car traffic is the serious openings and deaths. Last summer, there was a high accident rate. To these numbers is the tragic single-handedness and deep sorrow of those who have lost their lives. We therefore take road safety for granted. We need to increase the scope of different road safety measures, from cross-repairs, mid-rearing, pedestrian and cycle roads to racial protection. The national racial protection group’s requirement for an annual racial protection billion is met in the coming decade. We are also offensive when it comes to any future bet on the high-speed rail. The intercity effort presented to the National Transport Plan can be the first step in a future high-speed rail that can not only compete with air traffic between our major cities, but also provide a whole new everyday life for many communities along the current routes. It is important that the distribution work now continues, so that a professionally robust basis is provided to take political decisions. Progress always means change, but change does not always mean progress. We shall bear that in mind when the so-called Progress Party tells us that there is a need for a change of government. I have my strong doubts that the change that a change of government entails can be a step forward for our country, even though that party is good at creating and using big words. I also think that it is often a good idea to listen to the promises made by the Progress Party. It's going to be most like when my son is eight years old and he's fantasizes about everything he's going to spend the money on when he grows up, and money grows on three. So it's not really realistic, it's fascinating. When it becomes a bit tiring to right the political fabrication of the party and the misinformation that Sandberg's representative came up with, about the percentage increase of the county roads, which is 34 pst, and not 9 pst. – that’s a lot more – I remind myself of what they said: if nobody said anything without knowing what they were talking about, a scary silence would sink over the earth. For the red-green government, it has been more important to do something than talk. 15 billion more for transportation during this period has given innumerable evidence that the government has invested, and the NTP now gives a clear direction towards a major effort on the road and the path in the years ahead. We've shown that we can follow up, and we're going to do the same thing. Back to where I started: Social policy is a birth aid and a pre-missive for how people can travel both at sea, on land and in the air. The national transport plan is the major issue in each four-year period, which will set these premises and show the direction clearly. For us in the Center Party and in the Red-Green Government, this is a big day. Now we show where we want, and people have reason to be sure that we're going to follow up. Words must be followed by action. A new period of a red-green government will produce results: a terrain where good transport solutions in the countryside and cities all over the country emerge. It's to bet on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e777	Vision, direction and grip of the Centre Party are among other things. gliding. The 350 billions of lightning trains, is there money coming from road construction? What is the reflection of the Klinge representative on the consequences of the lightning campaign for the financing of regional airports around the country that receive their money from travelers to South Norway? Then I have an APB. Where has it been made by the free vacations to the Center Party? We do not find them in the proposal for NTP, nor do we find them in the administrative reform. Does this mean that we are now confirmed and demonstrated again that the vision, grip and direction of the Centre Party that we should get free ferries on the national road network in Norway are repressively given up? There won't be any free ferries, as the Senter party promised in the previous election?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e784	First of all, it's a good question when it comes to the ferries, because we in the Center Party have wanted free ferries, like the Progress Party. What still separates us from the party that's asking is that we don't have a sareptac truck to take the money from, and then we're talking about priorities. The priorities we have set are to give 15 billion dollars more to the road and the path. We've got a big bet. Maintaining the frequency and having a good ferry offer is the most important thing for us. But not all is said about it. We constantly have ambitions to try – and of course in the long run. But it is about priorities, and in the harsh political reality we live in. When it's about the high-speed train, it's a question that's almost so big that we have a little bit of a problem dealing with it, I think, and maybe we should have it too. That's why we're asking for a detailed explanation of what this means, whether it's socio-economically profitable, and how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e791	The Christian People's Party has been committed to a cautious deployment of rail competition – step by step. We challenged the Gjøvik track, which I see the Center Party applauds, and the NSB competes in the Nordic region with great success. But the NTP's proposals to set up several sections on the railways go against the red-green government parties. I didn't think the Center Party was in principle against putting out competition. What is the reason why one does not want to participate in the careful continuation of the railway competitive outsourcing, with the success of the Gjøvik Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e798	It is absolutely true that the Gjøvik course has been a success. At the same time, one has to say that a stretch – and driving it – is something quite different than driving the big network by rail that we have in the rest of the country. What we in the Center Party are busy with is giving so much money to the infrastructure that it'll be possible for people to travel collectively, that it's a real alternative to car use. The fact that the Gjøvik track has some advantages, with a higher panel frequency, and that they have the same train sets they leave with, of course, results. We believe that having a national train company, like the NSB, will provide economies of scale that help to build a good supply for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e803	The representative Jenny Klinge is from a fern, Moor and Romsdal, who she was also into herself. Available ferries are good district policies, we know that. The left has invested in several budgets in the so-called air ferries, i.e. early departures and late departures, so that people do not spend the night away more than strictly necessary. Is this something that the representative Klinge seems to be important – and in that case will support?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e808	Yes, at most. That's why I'm positive that now the county is going to take even more care of the ferries that it owes. With an increase of 34 pst. to the county, which is within the municipality'sproposition, for roadways, it would be quite possible for the county to prioritize the important departures of the air ferries, so that people throughout the county would be able to fly before they left – preferably – and not least get home late in the evening. It's always interesting to get to the right of the left when they're referring to our rights in relation to our own. To show what we've actually done, I think I'm much more important than speaking and using big words – and I notice that some parties are better off than what we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e815	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e818	The alternative national transport plan of the left is entitled ‘Green and Modern Norway’. In the Left's proposal, there is a strong commitment to public transport in urban areas, with over DKK 10 billion more than the government parties, and the Left transfers over DKK 30 billion to a more modern rail system than the government parties put up to. As a consequence, the Left proposes a reduced rate of expansion on the road network of DKK 20 billion compared to the Government’s proposal, but there is nevertheless an increase in road sector efforts of around DKK 3 billion per year compared to the current level of NTP. The left goes on to spend DKK 12.5 billion more than the Government for transport purposes during the period, and we will implement efficiency and modernisation measures that will provide an expected savings of DKK 10 billion, that is. about 3 pst. of the total framework. The government’s proposal for a national transport plan contains many good projects, but the absolute greatest weakness of the government’s NTP proposal is, as several organisations also pointed out during the hearings, the lack of collective action in our cities. It is not possible to build itself out of queue and congestion in already heavily pressed urban areas. We expect strong population growth in the years to come. This does not take into account the NTP proposal. In order to ensure accessibility and a good urban environment, this means that more traffic needs to be shifted towards collective transport solutions. The left will make a strong contribution to public transport by opening up urban areas that have a land and transport policy that reduces road traffic and increases the use of collective means of transport. This is what we do, among other things. to strengthen the public transport reward scheme by DKK 10 billion more than the Government’s proposal. Today, the scheme covers the largest urban areas. In the light of the substantial increase in the allocation of the Left, we will extend the scheme to the westfold cities of Tønsberg, Sandefjord, Horten and Larvik, and the cities of Ålesund, Haugesund, Moss, Bodø and Arendal and Mjøsregion, Lillehammer, Hamar, Gjøvik, and Akershus. The funds allocated shall also be made available for the planning and development of urban railways, such as the urban railways in Bergen and on the North Jären, Kolsåsbanen, the new Fornebubane and the path to Akershu University Hospital. These are important projects that will provide significantly better and more forward-looking collective services in the cities concerned. Within the railway area, the Left proposes a package of projects which together will result in significantly reduced journey time on the railway. The aim is to reduce the travel time by 2020 in the intercity triangle Oslo-Skien, Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Lillehammer by about 80 minutes, a trip time between Oslo and Kristiansand in three hours, and a travel time between Oslo-Bergen and Oslo-Trondheim in four hours. Prior to the completion of the Committee's proceedings, the government parties sold out that there was a majority for high-speed trains in Norway and that the government parties on the Stortinget had gone further than the Government. It's just on paper. The government has not added one additional crown to such a bet. This is to put the selectors behind the light. With this, government parties with SV at the head push the bet on a more modern railway in front of them, by trying to sell out new investigations and talks, instead of concrete actions. I want to take the strongest distance from this type of populism from the extreme left wing. Sv settles here with cheap headlines in the media rather than fighting for the issues the party itself has stated that they will bet on, and that matter in real life. A shining example of the airlock high-speed train is that they do not even propose to realize the new Ringeriks track between Sandvika and Henefoss during the period. This path is part of most high-speed concept studies in Norway and would be the natural starting point for starting a high-speed initiative. It is alarming that, after four years in majority management, SV has not been fully financed by the Ringerik tunnel in their plans. The left supports the comments in the setting that deal with high-speed trains, but the difference between the government parties and the left is that at the same time we follow up with NOK 30 billion more to a modern railway. We have this, among other things. taken from the road budget. The left prioritizes the railway. In addition to investing heavily on a more modern infrastructure, the Left, together with the other opposition parties, proposes a number of modernisation measures. Modernisation gives more impetus to the resources made available by the community. It became more expensive for the money when Mesta was separated from the State Road Administration and there was a full competition for the tasks. It was a better offer for the travellers when the Gjøvik Railway was put on offer. The left will continue to compete with the train traffic and end the NSB train monopoly. This says the government's parties repeatedly refuse to do so. In this connection, I would like to refer to a quote from Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete in the Class Battle on Thursday, March 5, 2009, where she said: ‘Tendering policy in the railway sector is firm. My impression is that this policy is effective in terms of efficiency and profitability.’ This assessment agrees with the Left. Recently, the Stortinget, by a broad majority, joined the Government's proposal for amendments to the Professional Transport Act and the Railway Act, which safeguard the rights of employees when using competition on the track. This provides a good basis for continuing work on competition. Since the Minister of Transport himself determines that the experience of competition is positive and the rights of employees are guaranteed, the Government and the Government’s continuing resistance to the use of competition in public transport must be a clear expression of an ideological approach and the close ties of the government parties to the trade unions. The left will also outsource all State entrepreneurship under the direction of the railway works. This does not want government parties. They want to go the other way, namely to consider restoring state entrepreneurship in the state road system. I would strongly warn against that. The catchment made by the establishment of Mesta AS has helped to restore the Community's resources, estimated at about DKK 1 billion per year. Left will also use OPS contracts for the construction of new major road and route sections. Experience from OPS projects shows up to half the construction time. This means that OPS contracts increase the societal benefits of the projects by allowing people and businesses to enjoy the infrastructure much earlier. OPS contracts also open to a greater extent to employ foreign contractors in order to increase competition for such jobs in Norway. Increased competition may lower costs. Through the increased investment on the road and by shifting more traffic from road to track and keel, the Left will provide a safer and better road network throughout the country. In addition to the human suffering, the society incurs 26 billion kroner in annual costs. Priority must be given to safe roads. The left will further prioritise the development of the Stavanger–Bergen–Ålesund–Trondheim coastal route and neighbouring road networks. The Western region accounts for a large part of the value creation in Norway. It is important to ensure close access to the market and to expand the labour market in that part of the country. In order to strengthen the systematic work on road safety, the Left will also establish independent roadside supervision, in line with that established in aviation and rail. As regards Oslo Package 3, the majority of the Committee wished to deal with this matter with NTP. This I believe is unwise, and I want to use a three-minute post later today on this toll package. I just want to point out here something that the representative Trond Helleland might also mention during his treatment of Oslopakt 3, namely a sentence where we criticize the travel agency in Oslo. However, there is no need to do so. As the Left, Right and Christian People's Party refers to in its comments on the same subject, Oslo and Akershus are one of the urban areas in Norway that implements the most offensive effort on public transport. About two thirds of all public transport in Norway takes place in Oslo and Akershus. In Oslo, car traffic has been reduced by a total of 8 pst. so far in 2009. The number of passengers in public transport has increased by 14 million in 2008. Similarly, there was a growth of over 6 pst. by public travellers in Akershus. An improved route offer and lower prices are key to success. Few other cities in Norway have the same results as in Oslo. It may seem that the political color of city leaders is more important than what is achieved, but I will come back to that later during the treatment of the environmental package in Trondheim. In summary, the National Transport Plan of the Left will give priority to the following: improving the accessibility and collective provision of urban areas through a significant increase in transfers to public transport, a radical improvement in the provision of train services through a strong redeployment of railway development safer roads throughout the country through enhanced maintenance efforts, reduced traffic loads and the establishment of independent roadside supervision, increased accessibility and higher road standards across the country through increased transfers and the use of alternative forms of contract in order to get more back on Community resources the phase-in of more environmentally friendly cars through, inter alia. a strong distortion of car charges, making cars as environmentally friendly as possible on our roads;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e883	When I listen to the representative Tenden, I think: The jam was good that she did not suffer for four years with Torild Skogsholm. What I'm asking is about the national transport plan. The left will cut the road by $20 billion, according to the position – no, not with Oslo and Akershus. They're being saved and kept harmless, I understand. But I understand that the Left will cut the appropriations for the route Dal–Minnesund on E6. This means that the project will not be completed during this 10-year period. Can the Tende give us examples of other sections where the Left will cut the appropriations? I think the voters have a right to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e890	First, I want to say that I am very proud of the job that Torild Skogsholm did for the four years she was in government. As also the representative Jan Sahl was in here instead, she had a completely different financial framework to deal with. According to the Evening Post in May, this government is the richest of the world. In this way, I think it would be quite wrong and a little clumsy – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression – to compare the two governments here. So to the road sections. The left has considered that both in Hedmark and Uppland, rail should be built in parallel with – and preferably before – road. We've shown it in Bergen about the Arna tunnel. We don't want to build a road, we want a railway, so the mountains don't have to get all the cars into their town.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e897	It's often said that if there are two left-hand people in the same room, you have two different opinions. After hearing the comments from the representative, I see that the representative Tenden also has two different opinions. On the one hand, she has been with the Advancement Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party on a note saying: ‘Therefore, these members wish to prioritise investment and maintenance of the road network the highest.’ On the other hand, she says that the left wants to give the highest priority to the railway. So you can start to think about what the left will actually give priority to. And when you say that you want to prioritize growth on the road and cuts with over 18 billion kroner in your budget proposal, I wonder how this is related – how to give priority to the road. And what are the sections that need to be downgraded? Are there sections in the West, there are sections in Akershus – or are there perhaps in other parts of the country left cutters in the road appropriations and make sure that there is less road traffic in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e907	I thank you for the question. I don't see the big difference between what we're saying in the comment and what I've been saying in the pulpit right now. The background is that in some places it's wise to build a railway, for example. in the intercity triangle. And it should have happened a long time before what this government adds up to, given the huge population growth we experience in, for example. Oslo and Akershus, who according to a future statistics I've seen, want 37 pst. population growth by 2030. In the districts, we must have safe and secure roads. I know that Bård Hoksrud and I agree very much on road safety. That's why we're saying what we're saying: we're going to have safe, safe roads in the districts. Then it's important to get up with concrete money in terms of the intercity triangle – and it has to happen quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e916	SV is happy that the left hand side is on the right hand side when it comes to high-speed trains in Norway. It's very positive that the Left is involved. And that's not the amount that the Progress Party is operating on, we're going to operate on. They're probably mistaken for their 350 billion dollars. My question goes on two things. One is that SV thought competition between modes of transport was important and that the train won that competition, while the Left is most concerned with competition itself – supply policy and privatisation. One loses the important environmental argument if one only focuses on offering. That's probably why the left will not cooperate with SV, because we see the environment first. And finally, why doesn't the Left want to join in and sort out the railway in North Norway, which is a claim from the state of the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e925	Thank you for your compliments. I can't reproduce it, because the left is actually not so impressed with what SV has received in government. We are simply very, very disappointed. And I can't believe that you want to go into a new four-year period and experience the same thing as now, that you don't get anything. Then it might be better to stand outside. I mention the Ringerix Tunnel, a case where you have really been tricked around. We want more for the money – more for the money, more for the money. That is why we think it is wise to launch the tender on Gjøvikbanen. We'd like to keep doing this, but maybe not on the very big distances. Those who live along the Kongswingerbahn, for example, want to get an offer similar to what you have on the Gjøvik Railway. And we're involved in investigating high-speed trains. But we want more for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e932	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e937	In just a few days, it has been five years since the Stortinget discussed the national transport plan for the period 2006–2015. The starting point today is a completely different one from that one. We now have a growing period where the investment in transport is strongly strengthened, and we have put forward a national transport plan that also means a big boost. The setting indicates that there is a broad consensus that there will now be a strong commitment to upgrading transport infrastructure throughout the country. There is also a great difference between the debate in this Chamber five years ago. I'm very pleased with that. This is a good promise for transportation in this country. Nevertheless, I hear some representatives repeating the claim that this government has so much more money to spend than the previous government. If you look at page 67 of the National Transport Plan, you will see that it is very clear that one has the same room for action in the undergrowth that the previous government, the Bondevik II government, had. I can't see that it has joined the configuration. But this government doesn't give priority to tax havens. This government prioritises the large amounts of money for the important issues, including social education. In previous National Transport Plan proposals, there has been a cautious increase in the framework — yes, even reduced frameworks. This time we notify an increase of 45 pst. We're going to continue to build the country. This calls for a strong commitment to the transport sector over a long period of time. The transport strategy over the next ten years has highlighted a good balance between the various objectives of the transport sector. Transport policy shall contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry and facilitate growth in business and welfare in the future. At the same time, we have an overarching objective of moving a good step forward towards the zero vision of road safety, and we will strengthen our efforts to turn the transport sector in a more environmentally friendly direction. At least through the organisation of the transport system, we shall contribute to a wider community that is inclusive and accessible to all. Since the current government parties together with the Progress Party raised the framework of the previous national transport plan, this was characterised as an airlock that would help to weaken the confidence of politicians in general and in national transport plans in particular. There was so much doubt about our ability and willingness to follow this up in the annual budgets. We have followed up, and with the broad political agreement on raising the transport sector, I have no doubt that the bold framework we are going for this time, and will be followed up. If we are to bet on transport, we must first and foremost allow more of the state budget. It seems that some people think that OPS is a magic form that provides free resources. It is not. OPS is purchase by hire, with the costs associated with it. Norway has a wealth of money that makes it artificial to make the issue of increasing transport investment into a NM in creative bookkeeping. There are some things that speak for OPS, but OPS cannot take political responsibility for prioritising us. There is no reason for the government to go on trying to buy ways to pay. We don't need it in a country with strong government finances like Norway. Furthermore, today we have room for action, not after 2020, when the burden of the OPS payment comes too fully. The positive elements are on the organisation page of the OPS project. We will continue this by developing new forms of contract, e.g.: where a contractor is responsible for remedial action, maintenance and operation of a longer distance over several years. Governments take into account the different challenges in different parts of the country. We need to use other tools in cities than in the districts. In District Norway, the road is often the only option, and then the bet has to be about the road. It is important to see roads, railways, ports and aviation in the context. While the rise in rail routes mainly benefits the central routes, the roadways increase most in the rest of the country. The strong commitment to shipping, ports and fairway measures will benefit the entire coast. Providing Avinor with good conditions enables the company to further develop a supply of aviation that binds the country together, which is decisive for the growth of business and population in a scattered country like Norway. Some people think that roading is the same as building motorways, and they want to start with a four-field highway out of Oslo. When I meet representatives of the business community who use the roads to transport goods around the country, the image looks a little more nuanced. Then an operationally safe path that gives good punctuality, and a yellow middle stripe that allows large runs to cross each other safely, is equally important. At the same time, we give priority to major projects that can remove bottlenecks as a result of typography and traffic volumes in central strokes. More holistic standards on the road network will provide a whole new everyday life for those who have their working days along the road, and reduced travel time on important routes will result in savings in time and money. In cities, we will invest in rail, public transport and road-parking that will make entry effective, and roads that will make transit more efficient, rather than generally increase road capacity, as a means of contributing to further growth in car traffic. All research and international experience shows that it is not enough just to bet on better organisation of public transport and walking and cycling roads if one is going to dampen car use in cities. We must also dare to take the politically difficult choices through effective and restrictive measures in relation to car traffic. Here there has been a positive development in this period. Key actors such as LO, NHO and most transport user organisations recognise the need to combine offensive collective action with restrictive measures. That's good! Investments in major new road and rail projects are important for businesses and people most. We will build many such facilities in the years to come. There is often a lot of attention about such a project, but it helps little if the rest of the web is confused. The government has thus reinforced the commitment to operation and maintenance compared to the existing national transport plan. In the national transport plan we have now submitted, we propose to further increase the effort for operation and maintenance – until the level of transport rates requested in their contribution to the national transport plan. At the same time, efforts are becoming less spectacular, but often very profitable, less investment measures almost double. In total, this is now becoming so large that we have renamed them from ‘minor investment measures’ to ‘programme areas’. These include the removal of bottlenecks, capacity-enhancing measures, the extension of width, measures that provide a more universal design of the facilities, and not least important road safety measures. These measures are not so prestigious, but in some cases we get a lot more in important areas, and they provide great socio-economic benefits. For me, it has also been very important that we have found room to spend NOK 1 billion every year on racial protection – almost a triple from today’s national transport plan, and as much as the National Racial Protection Group has asked. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Committee will agree on the preparation of a plan to respond to the question of whether there is a basis for the construction of high-speed rail in Norway. It is important to have a good professional basis in place so that the government can decide on this major issue at a later stage. Consequently, the Government does not propose to initiate the construction of separate motorways in Norway in this transport plan. The main focus of the government is on building a high-capacity rail network in the intercity triangle. The strong initiative in the intercity triangle will provide a good basis for the future development of a high-speed network in Norway. Therefore, concrete assessments shall be made as to whether the concepts for several of these projects can be adapted to the possible development of high-speed rail. As in all other countries, greenhouse gas emissions are a major challenge. There is a need for a systematic shift of the transport system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The government has already taken important steps – such as the conversion of the one-time fee and the phase-in of biofuels – to reverse the trend of increasing emissions from the sector. In addition to increasing the investment on railways and other collective actions, we also invest heavily on pedestrian and cyclist roads. And it is an important measure that this year's budget will now be doubled in the first four-year period. Cities that want to take a force will be given proper drag to bring down their car usage. However, the car will always be important in a country like ours. People will also be allowed to drive in the future, but cars will have to move on to non-emission fuels. The rapid phase-in of low or zero-emission vehicles is important. It shall be achieved through the use of the charging system, support schemes through Transnova and research tools. The size now also treats Oslopackak 3 step 2. In addition to road procurement, the state makes significant concessions, and the state contribution to investment on the future state road network will also be important. Oslopackakt 3 is beyond the largest toll pack in history, and there is a broad cross-political settlement about it. There has been a long and extensive process locally, but the government has ensured expressive speed in the further processing, where we have put in place a legislative change in order to use toll revenue for the operation of public transport, and the package was divided into two phases in order to speed up the collection process itself. There has been a good dialogue with local authorities, and I want to give tribute to Oslo and Akershus for having a chance to see more actions in conjunction, for establishing cooperation on Oslopacket 3 and for the establishment of Router AS. It is important to want to develop a holistic transport system where buses are coordinated with trains, etc. Oslopackak 3 is a big effort to develop the road and public network in the capital area over the next 20 years, and I'm glad that we're getting this in place. Today is a great day for Samferdsle-Noreg. I am pleased that the Storting has great ambitions on behalf of the traffic of the coming ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e972	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e975	I agree with the Council of State that there is a lot to rejoice over in a day like this, and not least I can now rejoice to state that the Council of State is in its own way clearly determined that lightning is not being built in the next decade – a certain contrast to posts we have heard earlier in this Chamber. And we can cancel the opening of the representative Langeland in 2014. I note that the Council of State maintains what she said when she was elected head of the Central Party last September, that we cannot reject the fact that it is going to happen, but in a longer time perspective than the next decade. Can the Council of States briefly reflect whether lightning trains are an effective measure to reduce CO2? What is in the national transport plan on page 174 rejects it. Can the Council of State briefly state whether there is a market basis for the operation of lynching trains in Norway? What's in NTP on page 174 indicates that it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e986	The size has gathered – if not fully collected – asked for a clearing to be made for the development of lightning trains. It has to be done. This means that there is no taken position as to whether to build such trains in Norway or not – leave it clear. But if it can be built within the ten-year period, it is not determined, in order to decide on it by rolling out the next national transport plan. It'll be in four years, if one follows the same rhythm as now. These are precisely to provide answers as to whether the climate benefits are high enough, whether the market is large enough, whether the socio-economic benefits are high enough for the Storting to provide a green light for such expansion. So that's the job to do: get the facts out on the table, a good fact-finding basis for the Government and the Storting to make decisions in the biggest business that's been on many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e993	There is good reason to enjoy many good decisions that can now come as a result of this national transport plan, and the Council of State naturally spent enough time telling about what she was pleased with. My question to the Council of State is: what is the biggest disappointment for the Council of State after four years – except that the Right and others are dealing with this with OPS? Is it the railway, which does not deliver and which, even on the day of the national transport plan, is unable to get through the Oslo tunnel and out again, or is it the missing plan tool available to the Council of State to demonstrate the socio-economic benefit of road construction? It's e.g. only two road projects in the national transport plan, as far as I have found out, which are profitable according to the calculations. Or is there any other thing the council could think would have been better after four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1000	Who's counting the lost battles on the winner's day? – I must be allowed to remind the representative. No, I'm not very disappointed, but I'm impatient to move on. We have – contrary to Right, when they joined the government – started a trade lift. But it's clear that when you start with a railway system that was as depressed as what we have in Norway, it takes more time than I would like to, to get it into full standard. And it's not just about money, because we've allowed the funds that the Swedish Railway Agency has wanted for that upgrade, not least here in the Oslo area, which has its own program. But it actually has to be done, and it has to be done at the same time as the traffic is supposed to go. So it's a huge challenge. But we're in full swing. And getting to stand here today and deliver such a message and get her debated in the Storting, I have to say is great fun, because here we lay the basis for something that will have positive consequences for people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1007	There is absolutely reason to congratulate each other on today, for in the next four years and ten years there will be an incredible amount of success on the road. As regards the increase in the 45 pst frame. who came, the Christian People's Party has been out and said it was very good. But I noticed that the minister now in his post said nothing about highway no. 1, Hurtigruta, but when Councillor Navarsete was in the north a few days ago, she was very offensive and said that here the tender criteria should be put in place quickly, Hurtigruta will get a sailing pattern as well as what we have today. But the problem is that the time runs out in relation to the Storting, because the promise was that the Storting should join in and debate the tender criteria. Does this mean that the matter is now being postponed? I assume that nothing will be presented during the summer, and that it will be the next government that will decide on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1014	There is no doubt that the work on the new offer for the high-speed bus has taken more time than I would have wanted as an impatient minister. It has several reasons. Not least it is in relation to competition law, the EEA Agreement and ESA, which we must stick to and anchor in that system, but of course it also applies to the review and dialogue one must have with regional and local authorities, to which I have longed to listen and have always said that I should listen. As time has passed, it is not possible to get that matter up to debate in the Storting in ours, so I must be allowed to come back to the committee, possibly in writing, to the extent that it is possible to get this in place before the Storing leaves each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1019	I get to start by taking up the suggestions, which I did not have time to make during my post. I have two questions for the Minister of Transport. One thing is that I'm not quite sure what the Center Party thinks about betting on the railway. In the railway station, the centre party is asked about their plans for the railway, where they say, ‘restate existing railway network to withstand speeds up to 200 km/h’. Here the Minister of Transport talks about the intercity triangle, but does not set any clear goals for when it's going to be up to date. The second concerns the reward scheme. As I said in my post, I feel that Oslo and Akershus have come out very badly. We pay 40 kroner in the bombing in from the west region. What more can we do in Oslo and Akershus to get better payoff from the reward scheme? Do you want to raise to $100? What is the goal of the Minister of Transport for Oslo and Akershus to get more from the reward scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1030	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1033	When this is the case, Oslo and Akershus get a large part of the funds. It's not that they're in any way down priorities, far from it. It should also be lacking – Oslo and Akershus do a lot of good before collective action and will do a lot of good insofar as a thing to decorate Oslopackakt 3 as it is in the lead when step 1 has been treated in the Storting, and collective action becomes the important part that it should be there. Now, when we have a double set-up this year, and we're going to double it again, it's clear that Oslo and Akershus are going to have a larger share of the funds. When it comes to rail bets, I believe the representative Tenden must agree with me that with the Central Party in the Ministerial chair we have got to separate more on the railway than the left did in the same chair, and there will be intercity trains in other major cities and the country in total benefit. I have great ambitions on behalf of the railways in Norway, because it's important, not least for the most popular areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1040	It is clear that the lightning process within the government parties is difficult. I noted that the Council of State said clearly that it was not appropriate to build lightning trains during this period, i.e. until 2019. On a line from the representative of Sortevik, the Council of State answers: Yes, it may be built lynch trains, but the decision will be taken during the rolling of the National Transport Plan in four years. It would have been interesting to know what is happening in relation to the desire to build lightning trains. I have almost been called a bluffmaker today by the representative Klinge because I claimed that the new county roads do not get the necessary resources. In this context, the representative Klinge came up with a calculation that said that the new county roads get 34 pst. increase. Such an approach has not been within the Committee's reach. But if it is that free income, framework transfers to the county council, racial insurance funds, interest compensation and ferry operations are included in all of this, I understand that a different number has been arrived at.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1047	First of all, in relation to the lightning train, what I said was that the government in this message did not suggest starting construction of separate high-speed trains in Norway in this transport plan. This does not mean, of course, that the Government – no matter who had to sit here in the Grand Duchy in four years’ time – cannot make another decision. Of course, it does not exclude lightning during the ten-year period. But we haven't made any suggestions about it now, because we don't have a good enough professional basis to do it. I'm busy with the proposals we're making for the Storting, and the decisions we're making are based on professional, good terms. When it comes to the county roads, Jenny Klinge said what is right: the framework is now in the municipal proposition – and the answer given to the Stortinget on question 155 was given before the municipal proposition was made, and was based on the transport plan. Now, what's a little bit of a problem here is that in the municipal proposition, we've increased the frames by 1 billion. Of course, we have to include the interest compensation scheme and the racial insurance funds, because it definitely goes to the county roads, and then the number is 34 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1054	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1058	I'm mainly going to talk about Oslopackak 3. But I must also be allowed to say that I am very proud to be part of the parliamentary basis of a government that has kept what they have promised in relation to transport in the last four years, and which is now presenting a historic, visionary and ambitious plan for the construction of infrastructure in Norway over the next ten years. An increase of DKK 100 billion in the planning period is ambitious, but I believe that, through what we have done in the last four years, we have the ability to prioritise transport and to implement those developments. One of the big, important expansions that come is Oslo–Ski to over 11 billion kroner – a railway project that will allow you to travel from Holmlia in Oslo every five minutes to the city and spend 10 minutes, and that you can travel from Ski, two miles further out, to Oslo in 10 minutes. This is an insanely good enlargement of the capital region and also answers some of the questions raised earlier by the representative Tenden. At the end of today's meeting, we want a large and solid majority behind the Government's announcement of Oslopackak 3 here at Stortinget. Oslopackak 3 step 1, and now with step 2, is supposed to provide the answers to Oslo and Akershus' transport challenges over the next 20 years. That is why all the parties, from SV to Right, now stand behind Oslopackak 3. Thus, the progressing party is fully on the sideline when dealing with the package in Stortinget. That's regrettable, because this message had deserved as much support here on the Stortinget as it has in Oslo. There is also the Progress Party to support the package. Oslopackak 3 is a toll project that has large local political connections, and is therefore also robust in view of fluctuations in this 20-year period that it is intended to handle. In step 1, we set up the financing system for the package, and we were able to start the collection already in 2008. This includes, among other things: Oslo was able to start with a seven-and-a-half-minute route on the Grorudban, which has led to a dramatic increase in the number of travelers. Projects such as Ulven-Sinsen and Kolsåsbanen could also start earlier than if the package were adopted as a whole, and not in two steps. At the previous treatment of Oslopackak 3 all parties, except the Advance Party, were included in a note where we said: ‘The majority are pleased that, through the treatment of Oslopackak 3 in two phases, transfers to the operation of public transport are now being started much earlier than if the package had been dealt with collectively.’ And on the other hand, ‘The majority are also pleased to see that important investment projects such as Ulven-Sinsen and Kolsåsbanen are also being launched again.’ It is therefore a little surprising to see that several of the parties now go away from this and write comments that may give the impression that Ulven–Sinsen is no longer part of Oslopackakt 3, despite the fact that the project is described in the agreement of the parties in Oslo and Akershus. Oslopackak 3 step 2 is a message to Stortinget about the management system of the package and a description of the contents of the package. Because the package is based on broad local agreement, it is important that the further work on the package is done through broad local anchoring between the parties that were part of the Oslopacket 3 compromise. Although local representatives are given the opportunity to follow the package through the treatment of various projects in Akershus County or Oslo City Council, the majority here in Stortinget believe that the local parties in the steering group must actively anchor against the parties and representatives in their respective local bodies. Yesterday there was a press release from the management group for Oslopackakt 3, where they described which projects they thought it would be invested in the next few years. Based on the reactions that have come on the phone and in the press, it must be said that this hardly had a wide lashing. This means that the undersigned now believe that the ministry should review this model, and at least ensure that the opposition is better represented, and ensure that we get the broad anchoring that all the parties have always agreed that we should have in the package. In consultation here at Stortinget, it has just been pointed out by the parties that this compromise has been reached and that it requires a broad local anchoring. The reactions to yesterday's press release indicate that this has not been the case. Opinions from the City Council for the Environment and Transport of the Baltic Sea region in Oslo also indicate that the comments made by a cross-political majority in the Grand Duchy have not been taken seriously, which says that there should be a balance between road and public transport and that the reduction of climate emissions should govern the work of the group. We have to make sure that we have a system that ensures that the parties that are part of that compromise are kept under constant review in the processes that will run for the next 20 years. This is the only way we can be sure to have a package that will survive changing majority constellations both locally and here at Stortinget in the next 20 years. Oslo does not deserve that we politicians now turn to what should have been meant to solve Oslo's future transport challenges and climate challenges, and also ensure a reduction in climate emissions, which is strongly highlighted by the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV in the joint comments on the Communication. It is therefore a broad majority that determines that consideration for the reduction of climate emissions must be the guiding force for the further development of Oslopackak 3. I believe that we are now ensuring the commitment to public transport through what we are doing here on the Stortinget, when a cross-political majority decides that any budgetary impact on large investment projects should not be at the expense of the effort we have on the operation of public transport. When this package is to be rolled every four years, it is important that those who run the package at all times are faithful to the agreement and the leaders we have put here on the Stortinget, and do not try to pursue party politics at the expense of it. The reward scheme for public transport is part of the NTP, but it is not part of the Oslo package 3. Despite this, the money from the reward scheme can help us achieve the objectives of reducing climate emissions from the transport sector. Therefore, it is also disappointing that urban councils for the environment and transport in Oslo have done nothing more to get out of the reward scheme for public transport. It is disappointing that the Progress Party is more concerned with political games than with gatherings for Oslo and Akershus. They are applying to the Ministry of Transport to create a toll package for Oslo and Akershus, but when it comes to Stortinget, they do not stand behind it. We also see the same duality with regard to the reward scheme. The Progress Party Agency complains that Oslo does not receive enough money from the reward scheme, but refuses to engage in dialogue with the Ministry on what measures can be taken to take more of the money agreed by the majority here on Stortinget in the climate agreement, would be given to the urban areas that were willing to enter into binding, long-term agreements to reduce car traffic. There's the ball now, at the city council, and for Oslo's sake, I hope he'll take it further. The majority of the Committee has also chosen to clarify the possibility of shooting larger projects in the package. The notification points out that, in all likelihood, new capital will be required to implement all the projects in the portfolio. It is therefore positive that it could be possible to raise capital by, for example: private property developers or others contribute capital into the road projects in exchange for, for example: can be built on top of the lids built or built on top of the existing road, if installed in a tunnel. This kind of solution could provide an opportunity to get started a long time ago, or that we're at all able to implement the projects we've been aiming to do. Areas such as the E18 westwards, the E6 in the Groruddalen or the Mossevejen from the centre to the Wurvenbukta – if we manage to realize these projects – could appear as clean natural and open-air areas instead of mutilated road installations that plague the inhabitants in the vicinity with noise and dust. I am very happy that Oslopackak 3 is as wide as it gets. There's a lot of work on the road and public transport in Oslo. After that, public transport in Oslo will be rusted up to a modern level. We also want to contribute to the operation of public transport, which means that the people of Oslo can get a better offer than they would otherwise have. Otherwise, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for the cooperation we have had on this and many other issues over the four years that we have worked together. Thank you very much! Finally, I address the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1102	The representative of Truls Wickholm has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1107	We have registered the proposal that is distributed in the hall. For us who are waiting for the government to pay the bill even in the big cities, it is nevertheless interesting to follow up on whether the agreements that have been concluded are being fulfilled. A note from all lots, except the Advance Party, in Innst. S. No 301 regarding this case says the following: ‘The reduction of greenhouse gas emissions should enter as one of the verifiable objectives of the package and therefore the achievement of that objective should form the basis for the prioritisation of actions in Oslopackak 3.’» [[...]] When, on behalf of the government parties, the representative, Mr Wickholm, proposes proposal No. 3 today, I assume that it is to mitigate the turmoil, the uncertainty and the uncertainty about what the drivers are actually going to get when they are still going to pay tolls. Is it the case, as the proposal states, that the balance contained in the agreement must be respected? Or is it greenhouse gas emission reduction management, which is in the note, that will control the projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1119	The majority here at Stortinget, as the representative Arne Sortevik says, have taken the climate problem seriously and are concerned about reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. We know that the transport sector represents 30 pst. of the emissions, and here in the Oslo area it stands for as much as 60 pst. of the CO2 emissions. What should govern Oslopackakt 3 is, as the majority writes, that the compromise should be continued. However, there are no road projects within this package, which aim to increase greenhouse gas emissions. There has been an important prerequisite for many parties to be involved in this. In addition, the balance sheet considers that priority should be given to those projects that provide the greatest reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1129	It's amazing when local parties can agree on a package as large as Oslopackak 3. And when at the same time the same parties manage to act so quickly, there is reason for rejoicing in the Storting. The day before the Stortinget will deal with Oslopackak 3 step 2, Oslo, Akershus and Vegvesenet will present a plan on which projects will now be prioritised. It's Colsåsbanen, E18 West Corridor, it's E16 Sandvika–Wøyen, E6 Manglerudtunnelen and Rv. 22 The highway, which is the big one, and that there is a lot of focus on public transport. But then Wickholm promotes a proposal, which in our opinion is completely unproblematic, because it is opening an open door. But I'm wondering a little bit why he's suggesting it. Is it because the representative, Mr Wickholm, is afraid that the Stortinget will not have enough time to manage this package, because it sounded like this on his post? Or is it because he is afraid that the Workers' Party, which is in opposition both in Oslo and Akershus, will be played beyond the sideline?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1136	I fully agree with the representative of Helleland that it is fantastic that so many parties have agreed on a common package. What has been the goal of this process is to secure a framework that allows us to work together to deal with Oslopackak3 in the next 20 years. Then it will sometimes be the Right who sits in the driver's seat, sometimes the Working Party who sits in the driver's seat. The background for me to promote that proposal in the hall is a desire, as Greece says, to establish what we all really agree on, just to dampen the alarm of not being heard, as many locally feel. I also believe that the representative of Greece will agree that it is important that in the first year of the package there is no uncertainty, so that the parties start running from what they have been involved in, but that we still manage to bring together all the parties on this fantastic compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1143	I am very pleased that the representative Truls Wickholm is in favour of Oslopak 3 and we hope that we can keep together, so that there will be no spells and speculation in the election campaign. But there are two challenges. One is the Wolf split-Sinsen, which was far more expensive than foreseen at the start-up in 2005. This could affect public transport, which Wickholm's representative is also very concerned about. Does the representative share that concern with the Left? The second challenge is that the construction of urban railways is costly. In connection with the Bergen programme, the Bondevik II government actively participated in the expansion of the urban railway there. Does the representative of Wickholm Left share the view that this government should also be more active in the development of urban railways?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1152	After all, this government has made available very many hundreds of million dollars for the major urban areas through the reward scheme. Some of the thought behind it was e.g. the conclusion of binding agreements on the construction of public transport, like urban railways, but then one also has to enter into agreements, engage in dialogue with the department, come up with ideas on how to do so. So up until now, Oslo has not wanted to do that, because you don't want to do the things that the representative Tenden mentioned in his post, run a restrictive land and parking policy, for example. I agree that we should have a further commitment to public transport. But as I said, there's the ball in the agency's corner right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1159	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1162	Let me first address the proposals made by the Progress Party in case No. 2 and 3, which is also part of this debate. When the Minister of Transport on 13 March this year presented the Government's proposal for a new national transport plan for the period 2010–2019, she said it was a small step in the right direction. That's it. It is a small step in the right direction – but it is far from meeting the need. It is often the case in self-esteem that you prefer to look backwards, not in the future, and not to measure yourself with needs. This also applies to the self-measurement of the Government. The government's new NTP framework is larger than the current schedule. Anyone who followed the treatment of the transport plan for 2006-2016, in 2004, probably remembers that it was the Progress Party, which together with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party made sure that 22 billion kroner more were spent on transportation. It was a majority in the UK that raised the limits of today's national transport plan. Today's government is continuing. The Government gets praise from the Advance Party for increasing the framework once proposals for a new transport plan have been submitted. From the Progress Party, the government also gets criticism that it's getting too small. ‘A small step in the right direction’ is too small. Norway has no reason to wait with the major steps in transport. Norway continues to have one of Europe’s most immature road and rail networks. The need for investment is enormous. At the same time, large oil revenues have given Norway an economic force that most countries envy us. Norway – the state and the government on behalf of all of us – has money to reach a great deal. New NTPs also lack the willingness and ability to link financial wealth with investment in national infrastructure – investment not in Coca-Cola, but in E6, not in Coca-Cola, but in E18, not in Coca-Cola, but in E134, not in Coca-Cola, but in E39, to mention some of our national, important tribal pathways. The willingness and ability to make such a connection have been lacking in several previous governments, and it is also lacking in this government. Norway – the state and the government on behalf of all of us – has money to reach a great deal. Therefore, there is no reason — at all — to use toll financing to pay for the development of a modern, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road network in Norway. The Progress Party also criticises this government for a sharp increase in the use of tolls. Four years of red-green government has given 30 pst. increase in the use of tolls. In the proposal for a new NTP, there is more toll – an extra tax of DKK 75 billion linked to new road toll payments, to new collective actions and to the operation of collective action. Norway cannot afford to wait with the big steps. Our distance congestion is reinforced by increased operating costs due to poor roads, increased transport times due to poor roads and increased transport costs associated with passing more and more toll stations. If the EU does so, the cost of crossing will also be greatly increased because the EU wants the discount schemes we now have to be substantially reduced. During the Stoltenberg administration, maintenance workers on Norwegian roads have increased. By the end of 2009, the maintenance run on tribal and national roads will amount to a total of DKK 19 billion. The main task of the government is to downgrade 17 150 km of ‘other national roads’ to county roads from 2010. It exempts itself from the provisions of the Road Code that roads reclassified should be in good condition. Norway has an immature transport network that weakens — not strengthens — Norwegian competitiveness, thus preventing growth and value creation across the country. The so-called administrative reform is an accident for Vei-Norway. It doesn't give you any better roads. There will be no better roads even if the state transfers roads that it itself has not managed to maintain, to the county municipalities, with notice that now they get the jam to do the job! State disclaimer is called this — often a popular exercise by governments that are unable or unwilling to do, the job itself. Norway cannot afford to wait. Business and road users do not have to wait either. The party of progress won't wait. With the Progress Party's proposal for a new National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019, and also until 2034 – a 25-year perspective – Norway will take many and large steps in the future. A lot of big FrP-skrits must be done, not the small government. The progress of the party comes with 580 billion dollars at the top of the government's framework, along with a perspective and a framework that goes forward for 25 years. Together with the National Transport Plan, we are now also dealing with St.meld. No 17 for 2008-2009, dealing with Oslopackak 3 Step 2. Let me briefly say something about it, in addition to the replacement of the line with the case rapporteur. What was made clear in the hearing in the Committee on this matter was among other things. a clear opinion of the Chairman of the Transport and Environment Committee of Oslo, Rune Gerhardsen, who strongly encouraged the balance of the adopted programme. In our view, with the comment that lies in the setting of this case, there is more uncertainty within the agreement that has been concluded. It is uncertain what the drivers get, but it is certain that they will pay – a lot, a whole of 45 billion 2006 dollars for a package of 54 billion kroner. Without the Progress Party in government, the drivers could risk having to pay tolls in Oslo after 2028. We're actually dealing with three things in this round. The last of the three are Inner. S. No 201. It is a proposal for a representative of the undersigned and several other party representatives to receive their own notification of the strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure. In the treatment of the national transport plan, the main focus is on roads and rail. In today's debate, the main focus is on roads and railways, and this is understandable in many ways. The intention of NTP was better coordination between transport sectors. The Party notes that such coordination is not clearly present in any way, nor does it give the four transport sectors the necessary focus. We see a clear need to look at the objectives, strategies, instruments and financial framework for maritime transport and port structure in greater detail. We therefore want our own major message on maritime transport – not instead of the national transport plan, but as an important addition to the national transport plan. We want to look at the framework for maritime transport. We will look at public funding and the operation of infrastructure. We want to look at the root network, i.e. tribal networks and connections to other infrastructure. We will look into maritime-based public transport and sea-based freight transport, and we will look at preparedness, not least oil protection, but also fairway marking and rescue services. We will look at the state organisation, and we will look into the issue of state funding for ports, and investigate and clarify it. There is also a need to look at schemes for grants, loans or loan guarantees for different investment purposes in order to modernise and streamline Norwegian parent networks. There is, of course, a broad consensus in the UK about transferring more of the freight transport to sea-based transport, i.e. from land to sea. It is therefore strange that no more parties than the Progress Party will have their own big message on how we can achieve this in concrete terms. The same applies to the aviation area. My time, ten minutes, does not allow many comments on it, but in the view of the Progress Party, we have the same need there: a separate aviation message based on the strategy report on Norwegian aviation available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1204	The Government’s proposal for a national transport plan for the next 10 years is a key distinction between the alternative plan and alternative instruments. The main point is that the government is essentially continuing with the policy that has been shown for a long time not to work in raising the transport rate in Norway to the level that the Norwegian economy needs in the years to come, while the Right has put forward concrete proposals for other ways of organising, other ways of building, other ways of financing that allow us to achieve a significantly faster result that promises Norwegian transport in a new way. Let me invite the Storting to take some long-term perspectives. This is a long-term message that is about the next ten years. If you go to the end of this 10-year period, you get to 2020. In 2020, Norway will have approx. 100 billion more, every year, from the oil money. Every year, because of the rule of action, we can put NOK 100 billion more into our budgets. What we have done is say: how can we ensure what was the original intention behind the rule of action, that we should not only invest – to use the words of Sortevik – in Coca-Cola abroad, but also invest in infrastructure and growth capacity in Norway? It was the intention behind the rule of action when we introduced it. That's why the majority of people said we should use it for growth-enhancing tax incentives, we should use it for research, development, education and competence, and we should use it for infrastructure and transport. By 2020, we have 100 billion dollars more than what we're going to use this year according to the rule of action. If we look at what the government intends to use in the next ten years, it's just 15 pst. of the extra oil money that comes under the rule of action. That means you're going to use 85 pst. on completely different things. We've thought differently. We have thought that we could take a force sentence now and say that within the rule of action and the money that is, we need to spend more on the original measures. That's why we can say that over the next decade, we have to have a big journey promise. But it doesn't just keep giving more money, you also have to spend the money in a different way than what you do today. That is why we have chosen to put forward a number of budgeting and planning proposals, but we have also chosen to say that we need to have a power cap on Public Private Cooperation. Why? Well, it is so important to have roads built faster in Norway, mainly because better roads mean fewer deaths. To think, with open eyes, that it's okay to continue to work with piecewise and shared development in Norway is, in my opinion, the same thing as saying that it's okay that we don't take the promises that are needed to reduce traffic deaths in the years to come. But that also means that we're waiting for a period when it's more difficult to get to the stakes to tie up the money to build roads. Public Private Cooperation is not a way of making payments – it is building roads now; it is making sure that the costs of Norwegian business are reduced; it is making sure that people can get back to work faster. More growth rate faster actually means that you contribute to an investment for the future, not just a payoff. Investing in such a way that ordinary Norwegian business and labour have more money in ordinary tax revenues to promise future well-being. And the space for action after 2020 is smaller, because we're going to get both an ageing wave and not least a heavy pressure on the care of the elderly. We actually have ten years to come where we can take the promise for Norwegian competitiveness, and a key point in that promise is to get to a different investment in infrastructure and transport. Then someone says that we're not going to afford that. But we have suggested in the perspective statement that we take the 500 billion kroner that will be phased into the Norwegian economy over the next ten years, and then we make our own accounting so that we follow up the main priorities that were made when we were going to introduce the rule of action. It forces us to spend more money on infrastructure and careers, more money on research and more money on better framework conditions for Norwegian business. It is a strategy for the future, and I think it is sad that we have a government that does not have strategies for the future, but that primarily operates horse trading in a short-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1220	The first meeting of foreigners with Norway gives us many interesting and important reflections. Many of them are fascinating and impressive about the way we've been paving the way for the whole nation. There are ways up steep mountain sides and into the deepest fjords. There are bridges over healthy and ferries out to the islands. We have airpasses all over the country and fast route along the coast. In a new era, we've also rolled out broadband for the whole people. This is the modern version of how Norway was — and will be — brought together into one kingdom, a country that can afford to link people, towns, cities and regions together. In many ways, we have overcome the forces of nature and our own topography with technology and policy to bind the country together. New building blocks for the collection of Norway are the national transport plan. Over generations, we've made huge promises, but there's new promises ahead of us now. We need to maintain what is created, and we need to build more to create new values and to bind the country even more closely by investing both in cities and districts, and by building up under what is government's Northern Territory effort. That is why the historic decision of the Stortinget is to be made today. Every year we will see the results of the enormous priority transport given by the red-green government and the majority here in the Storting. Norway is an important and central coastal nation. Our strength and position is not just due to the fact that we have a long-distance coast from nature. It is also due to the willingness and effort to expand infrastructure along the coast. Therefore, I am very pleased that the national transport plan adds up to an increase of 77 pst. in the territory of the Coastal Works. Compared to NTP 2006-2015, the annual budget of the Swedish Coastal Agency will be strengthened by 471 million. kr per year. I would characterise that as a significant investment in maritime transport. It consolidates and strengthens the role of Norway as a coastal nation. Maritime transport also plays a key role in achieving overall objectives of transport policy. Maritime transport is more climate friendly than road transport. And more transport by sea leads to fewer vehicles on the road – and thus shorter cows and fewer road accidents. In this Communication, the Government presents a package of measures to strengthen the position of maritime transport in the market. We are in favour of reducing the fees and charges for maritime transport. Modern and forward-looking port and water legislation has been presented by this government in the past. We have increased investments and maintenance of the maritime route and the organisation of combined transport solutions. The Government proposes to reduce the payment of users for maritime transport by abolishing the coastal fee and the annual port security fee. This will mean an annual fee and tax relief for maritime transport of 115 million. kr per year. It will improve the competitive conditions of maritime transport in relation to road transport. The need for a reduction in the user payment of maritime transport has been strongly signalled from the maritime transport industry for a long time, and it is a signal that the Government has taken seriously. Losing is an important measure to avoid ground-breaking and collisions. This is a service that is 100 pst. user-funded. I record that maritime transport actors believe that the obligation to provide services contributes to a high cost to industry. It is therefore very important, in the interests of industry and legitimacy of the financial instrument, that the service is as cost-effective as possible. Seaborne transport shall not be subject to unnecessary costs. A review of the pilot service is therefore being carried out with a view to improving efficiency. The Government shall come back with proposals that make the use of evidence of fairway more attractive compared to the use of pilots by placing a greater proportion of the total payment on the actual use of pilots. In addition, we will consider measures to facilitate the obtaining of fairway documents, including: seagoing requirements will be reduced in favour of actual competence testing. We also want to look at the extension of non-obligatory entrance corridors. Proposals for changes to the unloading service and the fees and charges to the Coast Guard will be sent to the hearing during the year. As regards new port and water laws, it was adopted by the Stortinget in February of this year and is due to enter into force on 1 January 2010. The new law facilitates good propulsion, safe movement and proper use and management of waters. The law facilitates efficient and commercial port operations with a focus on cost control. This in turn will benefit users and maritime transport. Among other things, port charges with general price fixing for the port services provided are replaced in order to ensure a level playing field between maritime transport and other modes of transport. It will also be easier to establish appropriate port cooperation in order to make better use of the infrastructure. NTP makes a strong commitment to fairway improvements, which will provide safer and more efficient shipping along the coast. The government has prioritised 42 major and minor measures in key traffic controllers, and proposes that almost DKK 3 billion be spent for this purpose over the next ten years. Fairway improvements are an important part of the process of making the seaway safe and efficient. Fewer accidents and shorter sailing times will make maritime transport even more environmentally friendly and attractive as a transport option. The Coast Guard Station is responsible for a significant number of navigational guidance devices in the fairways – lighthouses, brands and other things. These facilities are central to the maintenance of safe and efficient maritime traffic. In recent years, the Coast Guard has been focusing specifically on navigation facilities to meet the needs of fast boats for safe and efficient navigational guidance. There is a significant maintenance run on navigation installations and the Government therefore proposes to strengthen the annual allocation. The government also proposes to earmark funds for new vessels for the Coastal Works. These are vessels such as: used for the operation and maintenance of the navigation installations, and new vessels will contribute to more maintenance of the money. The coastal works renewal plan for the fleet provides for a transition to fewer and multifunctional construction and maintenance vessels and oil protection vessels. The five coastal works’ traffic centres are established along the coast in areas where traffic represents a special risk to maritime safety and the environment. Initial investment and reinvestment of technical equipment at the traffic centres are urgently needed. In order to maintain good monitoring of traffic along the coast, the Government will increase the allocation of investment in new equipment at the traffic centres by about 25 million. kr annually. The Government continues to give priority to efforts to improve fishing ports. It's set at NOK 2 billion for this purpose over the next ten years. It will facilitate forward-looking activity and ‘husband light’ along the whole coast. Nearly half of the fishing port funds are prioritised to actions in the north to build up under the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government. National transport plan 2010–2019 focuses in particular on the link between modes of transport and the development of intermodal hubs. It is defined, inter alia, by: a number of main network ports connected to the maritime and land-based transport networks under the responsibility of the State and the Government makes a commitment to improving road links to some of the parent ports. I have noticed that the Progress Party wants its own big message on maritime transport, and of course I share their commitment to strengthening this mode of transport. However, I believe that the interaction between different modes of transport is essential in order to strengthen maritime transport, and that it is therefore not appropriate to have a separate notification on maritime transport. All modes of transport should be treated in aggregate and with an equal planning horizon, as NTP has just stated. Essentially, I believe that NTP 2010–2019 deals with the issues that the Progress Party wishes to discuss in its own big business message. I am therefore very pleased that the Government's proposal for a national transport plan for the next ten years was launched a course that will strengthen maritime transport as a safe, environmentally friendly and competitive mode of transport and facilitate viable coastal communities. By addressing both charging and legal framework conditions, and by increasing the allocation of maritime infrastructure, the Government is launching a comprehensive package of instruments to strengthen maritime transport. Our policy is to enable carriers and shipowners to now assess the maritime transport option with new eyes. I would like to stress that the feedback from the maritime transport industry is that these are good measures. Finally, let me comment on one of the main dividing lines of Norwegian transport policy. It goes between the Progress Party and the Red-Green Government. The Progress Party is constantly distributing billions of dollars, and we will soon be up in several ‘fantasillions’ at the rate at which they distribute money. However, Norwegian roads do not receive asphalt from ‘fantasillions’. At least they do not get the bit of the policy of the Progress Party when they themselves are in power. In the last growing period, the Progress Party and the Bondevik government cooperated on three state budgets. They increased the transfer rate by 451 million. kr. The red-green government has used more for national transport than any government in the past. We've granted what we promised plus a little bit more. So in sum, we're going to spend $12.2 billion more on the road and the track than the previous forward party-supported Bondevik government. It's okay to have it with you when the Progress Party here today is giving full gas in the transport debate. It's nice and big words, but when the party is tested, they don't deliver!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1269	It is also possible to understand that the framework for this plan that we are still living under, 2006–2015, has been abandoned, among other things. The party of progress. The 22 billion kroner came into place by helping and supporting and cooperating with the Progress Party. I don't have a question of funding and framework – we get to take it in other contexts and not in 1 minute – but about two fairway projects, which are important building blocks projects. One is mentioned, the other is not mentioned. What we're talking about is the City Ship Tunnel. The government has set a total of 200 million. kr in the second part of the planning period. How does the Council of State think this can ensure the construction of the project in the foreseeable future? So to a fairway project that's not mentioned and that we've been in dialogue on earlier, namely a new route to Bergen's inner harbour without altitude limitation. Why does the Government not want to prioritise this project, which was promised when Askøybrua was built? The bridge was completed in December 1992, so we still have a limited entrance to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1280	Firstly, I am pleased that the Progress Party participated in the creation of a majority for increased appropriations in the previous planning period. It's interesting after five years, which has passed since then, to notice that there had to be a red-green government to meet the ambitions. It could be very interesting if the Right Party and the Right Party here today could clarify what would be the policy in relation to the rule of action if the Advance Party and the Right Party were to form government together. Is it the Right Party or is it the Advance Party's use of money that will be taken into account? So for the two concrete projects: in the case of City Ship Tunnel, it is now subject to KS1 evaluation. It still has to be worked on. When it is completed, the government will come back to that matter. As far as the entrance to Bergen is concerned, it is clear that this is a priority issue and it has not reached this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1296	The NTP shows that 300 million. kr per. years shall be used for the marking of fairways. It was found at the hearing and also afterwards that substantial parts of this amount should be compensated for the loss of income, inter alia. from the coastal fees, which actually amount to 130 million. kr annually. The net amount shrinks dangerously. Sources in the Coastal Works believe that the real amount is as low as 30 million. kr per year – that's just 10 pst. of what it might look like in the NTP. Then I think the Council of State should respond specifically to how much she has committed to budgeting with each year for the re-marking of the fairways.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1301	The figures set aside in the NTP for the various purposes, for the labelling of fairways, for fishing ports, etc., are, of course, constant. The numbers that are in the NTP are the ones that apply. Then we've also within the NTP range set of 115 million. kr to liquidate the two fees, the port security fee and the coastal fee. The numbers in the NTP to be used for the marking of traffic controllers go directly to that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1308	Two things: first of all, I heard the answer when it came to the City Tunnel. Now we've heard for three years that it's working with KS1, and I can't see it as anything but a discharge that, in order not to make a decision in connection with our going to a election, you push it over to future governments. Secondly, the Minister was concerned that new equipment would be provided for the traffic centres. Now we see that the oil business is moving northwards, and we have a lot of equipment, but unfortunately that's not good enough. Oil lances today are a problem. They don't take more than two meters in height. So my specific question to the minister is: are research and development being helped in this area to get lenses adapted to North Norway in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1315	First to City Ship Tunnel: It's per. today a project that is cost-based at NOK 1.8 billion. It will be the largest maritime transport project ever in Norwegian history, and that is why we are going to do the basic assessments very carefully. We've put in 200 million. kr in the national transport plan in order that it is possible to launch the project if it is concluded by the Government. Then it is important that assessments show that it has societal benefits, and it will also be emphasised that others are willing to participate in and co-finance that project. So I thank you for the question of oil protection, because it has been an area that our government has prioritised very high. We have dealt with the Coastal Works' technical recommendations regarding the replacement of equipment, and have increased the appropriations only by 25 million. NOK and then added SEK 88 million. Add kr. Then, in the context of «New building blocks in the north», we have said that we are to build upon the competence of the Coastal Plant, especially in the field of Arctic oil protection, including ice, dark and wave height. So we must give priority to that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1322	Oil transport from Russia and down the Norwegian coast has risen dramatically in recent years. In 2002, some 4 million tonnes of oil were transported from Russia. The volume tripled over the following two years, and this year it is expected to increase further to about 15 million tonnes, according to experts following these transports. It is also during the establishment of a transport route for Russian oil along the Finnish coast. We have experienced on various occasions that larger ships from Russia have been close by wrecking in this area, which may have serious consequences for the environment and for fisheries in the north. Are the Councils of State concerned about increasing oil transport along the Finnish coast, and what action, if any, will the Government take to meet this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1329	First of all, I would say that I'm very happy for increased activity in the north, and I want even more of that. But it's clear that when we see increased traffic of oil tankers along the coast, we have to build up preparedness in line with that. The traffic centre in Vardø is a very important contribution to this, and we are doing everything we can to build around the environment in Vardø. We have put in place sailing corridors that get risk traffic further out – a very important preventive maritime safety measure – and, as I have already mentioned in the reply to the previous replicant, we have thus considerably strengthened oil protection. Further demands have been made in connection with the Goliath expansion. I also have great expectations of the competence to be built up in Vardø, under the direction of the Coastal Works, specifically directed towards Arctic oil protection, and which was thus announced in the «New building blocks in the North».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1335	It was interesting to hear the Council of State reflections on the meeting of foreigners with Norway. There are many non-residents who have at least been in contact with me, who are allowed to drive around on the poor Norwegian roads, and who ask when they get on the good motorway or on the European road. I have had to tell them that they have been driving on the European road for several hours, so they may not feel exactly as glamorous as the examples that the Council of State referred to. But I want to challenge the Council of State on what she said from the pulpit, that you didn't want to have your own notification about maritime transport because you don't want to go in and discuss a lot of oil protection, and you don't want to go in and discuss towboat preparedness, which is important to many of the ports along the coast of South Africa, where you don't have a satisfactory towboat preparedness. The question is: When does the Council intend to discuss these important issues when they will not be discussed in the national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1342	Firstly, to link maritime transport with the other infrastructure system in Norway, the national transport plan is the right tool to do so. If you're going to have your own policy on maritime transport, separately from the national transport plan, I think it'll get us wrong from farms. In the case of tugboats, the Government has strengthened the towing boat stand in the north and is to extend it to the next year. I have previously said here from the Chair of the Storting that the South is at stake, but that is something we have to get back to in the annual budgets. So I would say: Norway differs from many other countries that we have a settlement in the districts. This means that we have many more reasons to take than, for example, our neighbouring country Sweden. There is also a dividing line in Norwegian policy between the red-green government that will build a road in the districts as well, and the Progress Party where the leader has said that people should be built there, and that is in the East, not in North Norway and in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1351	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1354	It was good that I came right after the line was finished, because it is at least clear that the Minister for Fisheries has not read very carefully what the Progress Party has proposed in its alternative national transport plan and in its alternative budget proposals for the four years that have passed. It is very clear that the Progress Party wants to build the whole country, both in the north, in the south, in the east, in the west – ‘you name it’. The Progress Party's proposal for the National Transport Plan shows that we want to bet all over the country and want to build the whole country. I want to draw up a map from 1962. It is the national transport plan — or national road plan, as it used to call it, before the national transport plan arrived — that was adopted for the period from 1963 to 1980. When it was decided to build 785 km of a new motorway in Norway, it was to be completed in 1980. Today we are in 2009, and we have built 239 km of motorway. Then we've listened to all the posts that have been before me, where they've said that you kind of have ambitious goals, and that this is a bet. We're going to build 240 km of new highway in the next ten years! That means that it remains approximately. 300 km of motorway to meet the plan adopted in 1962, which was to be completed in 1980 – and that is when we are at the end of 2019. In fact, I don't think it's very ambitious when it comes to the construction of a motorway, which we know actually both reduces the number of hard damage and, not least, killed in traffic. North Westfold is one of the best examples, where before the new highway opened, unfortunately, many people lost their lives. There were several people every year, but after the road was opened in 2005, there is only one person who has lost his life there. For those who got VG last year, it said about the death routes in Norway, where all the accidents happen. I've got the map here. Some of these distances may not even be completed when we get to 2019. Many of them will not have started before the end of this four-year period. The Progress Party has received a lot of criticism because we say we want to bet. We want to build a motorway network with 2 1⁄2 thousand km of motorway, 2 300 km more than what we have per. today. Then we're kind of being joked about and ridiculed. Then I think it's actually interesting to see what other countries in Europe are doing. In Romania, for example, which may not have the same financial assumptions as Norway, to say the least, they should build 1798 km of motorway and 507 km of express road between 2007 and 2013. 800 km is already in progress. So the "ambisious" goal of the red-green government is 240 km in ten years. I don't think it's very ambitious. The same thing with Poland, which is going to build 636 km and 2,219 km of express road over the same period. The best example is perhaps Albania, one of Europe’s poorest countries, which will complete 759 km of motorway in 2009. So Norway has 239. So I want to say that today is actually quite special. It's special in many ways. It may be a happy day for many of those who have managed to get through the national transport plan. Then I think first of all about those who have been passed the first four years. I'm going to come back to what I mean about the years after the first four. But it is a day of disappointment for all those who have listened to promises from both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport and others who have promised tens of billions in a journey promise. I think a lot of them feel that it's not the tens of billions or maybe up to hundreds of billions you'd expect. It is also important to bear in mind that even if you have joined the national transport plan, it does not mean that you get any money. That just means you're allowed to be in the document. It is in the annual budgets that money is allocated, because the political majority does not want to act as the Progress Party and say that when we adopt the national transport plan today, we will adopt the framework for the next ten years. Then people would know what they had to deal with, and that the projects would actually be implemented. What's going to be exciting is whether the rise wants to follow up the national transport plan. Hopefully you get a new government from the harvest that will follow up far beyond what today's government has set up. I also have to go back a little bit, because there are a lot of representatives from the red-green parties who have been around and sold this in as if you are now really betting on transportation, and many got good promises. We know, among other things: that in Buskerud, one of the major workers' representatives was out there and sold in that they would get NOK 1 billion to build highway 36 in the first four years. In Telemark, where I come from, the red-green parties, with the Workers' Party at their head, promised 900 million. State crowns for the development of a project amounting to NOK 2.6 billion. There was no government funding in the first four years, but what happened when the committee dealt with the matter was that instead of having a cost framework of NOK 2.6 billion, the cost framework was increased to NOK 3 billion, and instead of the drivers getting a government funding of SEK 900 million. NOK 400 million, and not 900 million. kr, as suggested. So first, you're subtracted 500 million. And in addition, it's going to add up to 400 million. kr extra in tolls for the drivers. I don't think that's a lot of bet. It is the driving lists that are currently available in the national transport plan. I also think it is important to have the perspective that over 700 billion kroner will be taken from Norwegian drivers in the next ten years. And it's above NOK 220 billion that goes back to the road construction and operation of the State Road Administration. That means the drivers have to pay over 300 pst. of the roads we're going to build in the next ten years. I also want to say that this NTP is an election document from the government parties. It is rare that I have seen so many promises in a document that require so-called local initiative, local user initiative, i.e. a local user funding initiative, or user involvement – over 30 projects. As the Council of State has said many times in the pulpit, it is the local initiatives that this government is following. Now there are not very many local initiatives anymore – when the prerequisite for getting at all the opportunity to present the project is to get to the Stortinget with a request to take up some toll projects. So I want to say, when you keep claiming that it's NOK 100 billion the government is adding, that the government is really, really, plus NOK 74 billion in relation to the 2009 framework. But I realize that it's important to pretend that you spend a lot more money than you actually do. I also think that what is important, and what is a shame that we are not discussing in this matter, is: What are the needs out there? That is what the Progress Party has done in its proposal for a national transport plan: what are the needs, and what must we do to get a real, efficient, modern transport network both on the road and on the railways throughout the country? Unfortunately, the political majority has not shown the same will or seen the reasonableness of spending more money on infrastructure construction rather than on Coca-Cola and other foreign companies. I also think it is important to refer to Knut Boge, who has said that if you had spent NOK 100 billion correctly, you would have saved another NOK 62 billion annually, which could be spent on other important tasks in society. I would also like to point out that this with the middle parts has become a big discussion, but we do not have to make middle parts that do not make a call-out vehicle come forward. We have to make midpoints that make them come out, but that also prevent us from getting meeting accidents. Had it been spent 5,5 billion kroner – perhaps 6 to 7 billion kroner – the number of injuries had been reduced and killed in traffic by 80 to 100 each year. That means that this money would have been saved in three to four years if you had invested and spent money on it. Then I register that the government parties in a majority comment now suddenly say that they are engaged in the school bus transport, and that is what they say to the extent that they have been before as well. But instead of just talking and putting things into notes, you actually have to do something concrete, we have to make sure to get things into place. That is why we have today put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to impose a seat requirement on schoolchildren in school kisses by bus.’ I really hope that the majority will follow up the proposals of the Progress Party and go for it. We are also proposing to spend 15 billion kroner on the Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer routes, just to follow up what we think is important, namely to get a railway that can go up to 250 km/h, instead of talking about high-speed or high-speed trains. It would really mean something. So I really hope that the majority supports it, and we'll get a decent and modern railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1399	Unlike the previous speakers, I am very pleased today. It is the third national transport plan that I have been allowed to participate in, and what I can say is that the transport plan we are dealing with today is the very best one. Think so much money! There will also be more money for the county roads. In fact, it's 1 to 2 billion more per year. years in the coming ten-year period. Four years after the Bondevik II government went off, our government, we – the red-green – have implemented this decision and more than fulfilled the framework. We kept the promises we made. That's why it's a good day for us. I represent a state that is dependent on both road and track. It is my heart to bet on the railway, that we now get double tracks from Eidsvoll right up to the Hamar station, and that electrification of the Røros Railway and the Solørbahn can be assessed at the next rollover. The king-winged track shall be upgraded so as to satisfy more fully the requirements and wishes of the travellers. Kongsvingerbanen is an important freight train to Sweden. Coordination of transport measures between Norwegian and Swedish authorities is important. The industry in Hedmark is completely dependent on good roads. Without the truck stopping Norway, it is said, and this applies in particular to Hedmark. This is my last transport debate, but I don't feel angry. I am happy and proud that after 24 years I can sign out the road sections that have been on the priority list in Hedmark. For 18 years I have worked with Rv. 2, and now we might get a previous start there by saying that toll companies have the opportunity to raise loans and start up before. In this way, it contributes to the continuous development of the two projects. This will also apply to E6, which is a way of death. Too many accidents have occurred. E6 between Gardermoen and Lillehammer is the most dangerous road route in Norway — the one with the most fatal accidents. Development, which is now well under way, is an important contribution to bringing down the accidents. At the same time, I must remind you that we are behind the wheel of the car, which has the main responsibility to avoid road accidents. I believe it is important for the sake of the accident situation to facilitate the further development of the E6 northwards from Colomoen to Lillehammer as early as possible in the next period. NTP provides for the possibility for toll companies to advance funds for planning, design and land use. It is important for me to point out that the proposed road safety measures on the E6 north of Hamar are important, but these measures should not replace the planned development of the route Colomen-Lillehammer, which has been given a State framework of 430 million. kr from 2014 to 2019. I would also like to express my satisfaction at the improvements proposed on Rv. 3 through the Østerdalen. In NTP it is clarified that it is relevant to convert rv. 3 from Løten to Grundset, north of Elverum. The project will improve the regularity of business transport. Trysil is an important tourist municipality in Hedmark and is heavily busy during the tourist season. Now it's turned on in the NTP that rv. 25/rev. 3 remain national road and shall be maintained by the State. Now I can sign out all the enquiries I have received in the transport sector in my county. For a state that lies in the fish shadow and the oil shadow, it is absolutely necessary for business and housing that we have good communications. I will end by cheering from Stortinget's pulpit over this big initiative on transportation, as among others. will provide better and safer highways and highways. We get real speed on railway development and get more freight from road to track, which means safer and better access on our roads. It deserves Hedmark and the rest of the country. The representative Borghild Tenden said that the left in Hedmark and the left central priorities the railway ahead of the road. Yes, then it would look boisterous in Hedmark. Because we depend on both road and track, and that's how it is in many places in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1422	Government parties like to describe their transport policy as a change of pace; one is now moving, but especially faster is not. So let's think about the reality. Today we have heard the government parties boast that they are increasing the NTP framework by 40 pst. in relation to the applicable plan. Yes, that's probably true, and that's good, but not good enough, because the cost has also increased by 40 pst. It's this reality that the government is being very provoked by the fact that we're constantly taking up, that it's probably bigger financial resources in the sector nominally, but it's not being built more kilometers of road than under the Bondevik government. The right has completely different solutions and takes completely different steps from this government. We have presented a comprehensive strategic plan called the Right Transport Plan. Here we present solutions that will allow us to take advantage of the space available over the next 10–15 years, before other large and heavy societal tasks become effective. High oil revenues are likely to give us at least 500 billion dollars more to travel with the next ten years than we would have had with today's level. Right-wing believes it is essential that we be able to discipline ourselves to use these resources to invest for the future over the next ten years. That is why the Right has come up with systems that oblige us to use oil revenues on just long-term investments. Because we in the Right have committed ourselves to prioritizing transportation, it will mean increasing direct appropriations for roads and railways, but also a number of other measures. We prioritise 31 billion more than the Government of Investment in Roads, which represents an increase in relation to the Government of 40 p.m. We will set up a maintenance fund of 50 billion kroner. But this is not enough. We just created our own national transport plan because we didn't think the Government's plan was suitable as a starting point for a strategic transport policy for the next period. We want our own transport plan when we go to government for the autumn. The right transport plan describes solutions to some of the main challenges related to transport in Norway, namely to re-establish the huge backlog of both investment and maintenance. Old medicine, as the government instructs, no longer helps, even if they increase the doses somewhat. It has unfortunately expired. There must be new instruments to that end. The right considers that the problems and shortcomings in the transport sector have become so serious and extensive that innovation and new solutions, which are now being launched on a large scale by the Right, are absolutely necessary. The clear right bet on OPS as a project form is a central element. Right-wing promote concrete proposals for OPS solutions of 23 sections and a total of 35 individual projects. We want to have OPS organisation introduced also in the railway sector and actually also cleared the OPS solution at sea, namely for the Stad tunnel. This means that the Right will launch three to five OPS projects each year in the 10-year period with an estimated annual investment volume of DKK 5 to 7 billion more than the Government, only in the road sector. This means twice as fast the realization of important sections of our highways as the Government adds, and in 15 years we will have a modern highway network in Norway with the Right model. To achieve this, the Right will introduce comprehensive reforms in the way we plan to carry out the missions. Right will change our transport modes from being bureaucratic, a little heavy and little dynamic to becoming more operational and action-oriented. They need to be flexible, focus on solutions and get a much more freer position than today. All supervisory tasks must be taken over by others, so that the base of competence that the agencies represent is reinvented, and believe me, with the model of the Right, important professionals like engineers and others in the road and orbit flow to the liberated companies, because here it's going to be fun to work. These agencies will specifically build Norway in the future. I'm not going to go through all the 23 action points in the Right Transport Plan, but I'm pointing out that the whole plan is based on three main pillars for what the Right believes is important. It is primarily a matter of personal freedom and quality of life, but of course it is also a matter of providing Norwegian companies with competitive transport solutions. As third arrows, we in the Right will develop solutions that point towards a greener society, with smarter, more modern solutions that play along with the environment. In this context, I need to highlight the Rightness of the high-speed rail investment in Norway. For many years this was seen as something a few curious people engaged in. It was only when the Right took up the matter in 2006, in the form of a Document No. Eight proposals that the theme really came on the agenda. Honor be the enthusiastic ones who endured. SV has been clear. Then we get to believe that the whole – the whole – working party is gradually gathering about this. The State Secretary of the last government party will probably find his or her place in the fold. For the Right, a modern high-speed railway, excellent comfort, flexibility and environmental excellence fit perfectly as a bet area related to the three main pillars I mentioned that the Right has laid down. On the right, there is simply a belief in the concept of combined lightning trains with regional trains that this function is on the same network and in corridors where nutrient structures and population concentrations have grown for generations. In this country, we fly ten times more domestic flights than ashore, for example. Germany and France. Many are not aware that this represents a high traffic potential for high-speed trains in Norway. This wants the Right to grab hold of. We go in to build high-speed trains where the operation of trains is profitable, so we don't build something that will be an operating subsidy shutdown in the future. Society must take responsibility for investments in rail and overhead line, but the commercial operation on top of the lines must be profitable. I would like to see the red-green parties join the proposals of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party here today; it would clear up any doubt. I am pleased that the opposition is united in a joint proposal for OPS solutions on E39, or the Coastal Road between Kristiansand and Trondheim, the very export route in Norway. It passes through industrial and industrial areas with a very large population and affects the export income and value creation of the nation. Here are a number of sections suitable for OPS financing. I mention the four-field road between Bergen and Os, it lies pottery in the department, but also the Nyborg tunnel north of Bergen is important for traffic northwards towards Sogn and Fjordane. But it is the holiday relief projects, Rogfast, Hordfast and Møreaksen that really represent the revolution in the part of the country, because with those projects you get a ferry-free coastal line between Stavanger and Bergen – where there are one million people – and they better bind More and Romsdal together. An almost ferry-free coastal route, which we then receive, will contribute to colossal regional development and value creation. A recent report by Econ Pöyry shows great savings for society by building ferry-free. The discounted present value is set at NOK 2.7 billion. The report concludes that the strengthening of regional business in the West benefits the entire nation, because here we are talking about important export industries for the country. Unfortunately, neither the Government nor the Government have mentioned in their document either a free coastal route or, for example, a free coastal route. Hordfast in Hordaland. I hope it's a forgetfulness, and that at the next crossroads they can support the opposition's proposal. Government parties refer only to the many comments and wish to realise a free coastal line, which was produced in the hearings. But even they just mention that it's important that ferry connections get frequent route frequencies throughout the route. Right wants the suspensions to go away. We want a ferry-free coastal line as soon as possible. It is a pity that the government parties do not agree with this. Here's no time to lose. The right will initiate these OPS sections as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1467	In March, the government presented its proposal for a national transport plan, a proposal that took the breath of most, including the opposition parties. Now they have been breathed again, and have contributed to an attitude of the transport committee on 300 pages. Prior to this, there has been a broad and long process that started about when the previous transport plan was adopted four years ago and has been in progress in the transport modes of municipalities and counties, in the political parties, in organisations and actions – a comprehensive and thorough process in which everyone has been given their opinion for several rounds. I believe it is essential that NTP is an overall strategy plan that sets out the direction of transport policy and its place in social development and also discusses new approaches, as the Government's proposal for NTP does. However, the process should be curtailed, and the plan could be made less comprehensive than it is today, and also considered to provide wider expertise in the work on e.g. Societal planning and analysis in the next round. Transport engages – I have noticed that in this period. It may not be so strange in relation to people travelling more domestically, and high economic activity with increased purchasing power has given more goods by road, rail and sea and increased traffic. There is therefore a great need for an efficient, accessible, sustainable and secure transport system in this country. The transport plan available provides a good basis for a long way forward towards this transport target over the next ten years, with many small and large-scale projects in road, rail, ports and fairways. In my home state, Eastfold, they have a new brand day, namely March 13. Then the government put forward proposals to the NTP, where we finally got an impact on local projects it has been fighting for for many years, such as the further development of the double track through Moss to Sostad, new double track Oslo-Ski, with the connection of the eastern line, the further continuous expansion of E18, the improvement of fairways and Moss and Borg ports as tribal networks. And today it's adopted. I'm not saying that we're in the goal, but we're on our way to the goal of, among other things. double tracks through the cities of Halden and the Swedish border and continuous expansion of E18 from the border with Oslo – well beyond the previous government. We're happy with that. Increased rail deployment in response to climate and transport challenges, and as an important premise for societal development, is one of the strategies in the plan. The working party believes it is a right and important act. With the problems that have been on the railways, especially in the East, last year, due to years of down-priority of maintenance of the network, operations and maintenance have priority for us in the first planning period. People must be able to trust that the train is coming and going when it needs to. That is why we prioritise more money for maintenance, and this work is all going on, among other things. in the Oslo tunnel. The Government’s strategy for the development of the rail network, with the development of double tracks in the intercity triangle Oslo-Lillehammer, Oslo-Skien, Oslo-Halden and between the major cities, is also important and correct. The speed of the railway has been a livelyly debated theme throughout the period and is one of the new approaches included in the plan. A trick in this debate is that we don't have the same speed debate on roads. But it might come, because while the Progress Party will have six-field highways, for example. on the E6 between Svinesund and Oslo, we will have high-speed trains built for a minimum speed of 250 km/h on the same route. All over Europe, there is an offensive commitment to the development of the rail network and high-speed solutions. This will move the transport of goods and persons from aircraft and road to rail, and will contribute to more efficient, safe and sustainable transport. Norway is the country with the largest share of domestic air traffic compared to other European countries. The reason is that we don't have alternatives that give almost the same travel time as with airplanes. High-speed rails may be such an alternative. The government has launched several high-speed rail investigations in the period and has had a broad and good process. I am now recording that the Right is trying to take credit for this, but it is important to note that this work has the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, cross-politically supported about and been the drivers of, through our decisions on the need for more knowledge about the effects of such a transport option could provide. The conclusions of these investigations are not unambiguous, while investigations from other environments show that there is a market base for profitable high-speed rails in Norway. The majority of the Transport Committee has therefore emphasised in its opinion that further investigations must now be aimed at building and a decision-making basis must be available well in advance of the next roll-out of NTP. There must be no contrast between the deployment and upgrading of existing networks and the future deployment of high-speed rail systems, as some do. The railway we're building now, we're building for the next 100 years. We therefore need to know more about the transport needs and the possibilities a high-speed train could give us, not just for the next ten years, but far ahead. We have to set a competitive railway as a rail target for the next 100 years, so the speed will give itself. The question is not high-speed or not, but to combine speed requirements with our requirements for a double-track railway through the cities of the intercity sections. We get the answer at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1490	Four years ago, there were relatively few who had expectations of Storting's treatment of the national transport plan. The current railway director Steinar Killi actually stated that he considered the work of the public authorities on the transport plan to be a pain in the way, because changing governments still did not have the ability to follow up modest planning frameworks. Today, the situation is completely different. The government has not only fulfilled but over-filled the decision of the Storting from four years ago, and the transport plan has for the first time become a political governance tool, as it was supposed to be. But not only that: the government has lifted trade as a policy area and facilitated a non-parallel movement effort in recent times. So the expectations are much higher now. I think that the plan document we are dealing with today represents a separation of transport policy time, especially in the case of railways. The Bondevik II parties, which entered this ageing period with their tail between their legs, have also gradually regained their self-confidence. Obviously, the opposition has done them well, even though they fall into old ideological thinking goods and are in favour of a large-scale privatisation of both road and track. But it's got to wake up. I therefore think it is only positive that the lines of Norwegian transport policy are now being made visible. With the support of the bulk of the population, the Government will now raise its transport appropriations to a whole new level. It's pretty amazing when the effort increases by $10 billion a year. The funny thing is that parties that have previously prioritised tax relief over transport are now over – of course, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has in every respect declared itself out of economic reality. Then we're going to use the election campaign to explain to the voters that this policy is just a matter of time, and that it will never apply. The transport plan is now such an ambitious document that the heaviest modes of transport can have problems following it up. It's not because they're going to lack appropriations, rather the opposite, but I think the planning capacity can become a bottleneck when the transport plan is going to be implemented, also because it coincides with a generation of competent planners leaving the traffic operations and moving into the pensioners' range over the next few years. The lack of recruitment gives cause for concern. NTNU has not been applicants for railway and road technical subjects in the last two years at all. We're now on the threshold of railway clean-up here in the country. The next 10 years will be the realization of major railway projects. I am pleased that the so-called intercity triangle is now a priority. The development of double tracks on the Westfold Railway is, in fact, a transport revolution that not only shortens the journey time between the westfold cities and Oslo, but also provides the basis for a whole new economic development on the west side of the Oslofjorden. In all this debate on high-speed trains – and I do not disagree that this possibility should be explored – it may be difficult to keep focus. It's easy to narrow down speeds of more than 250 km/h. But for me, who since the turn of the year 1982/1983 has been commuting on the Vestfold track, and who in total have spent a few years on the train – and I also include the delays – the dream is to be able to double the average speed from today's 65 km/h. For me, it will be something in the direction of a moon landing if we could provide a new turnaround and a new signalling system at Skøen station, so that we can rely with a reasonable degree of certainty on the train going and coming when it is going to. The task will now be to advance the further planning of double tracks through Vestfold and Telemark with an extension to Sørlandsbanen, including a combination of a new station and an aerodrome terminal at Torp. I have no objection that it is planned to equip trains at speeds above 250 km/h, provided it does not distort existing plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1507	National transport plan is a major boost for the country and for Uppland. Many good and necessary projects have been put in place, and I am very pleased that the Stortinget is now betting so much on both road and rail. A workman’s song has the text ‘We build the country’. Yes, we are doing well, and with NTP it becomes even more ‘We build the country’. In Hadeland, there are many different transport themes that we are concerned with: Gjøvik, rv. 4, Randsfjordferga and not least rv. Thirty-five. It is important that the Gjøvik track is defined as part of intercity traffic. I think it is now in place that the Oslo-Gjøvik train offer has the same status as other comparable train services for cities in the East. In the case of the two projects on R & D. 4, they must be able to merge, so that the propulsion does not stop. Rv. 35 should be expanded with start-up as early as possible during the period after the setting. In the opinion of me and many others, rv. 35 on the route Henefoss-Jessheim is reclassified to become part of a future E16. It is important that Stortinget understands that rv. 35 through Akershus, Uppland and Buskerud together with Rv. 2 constitutes a cross-link north of Oslo. This cross-link, together with the established cross-link south of Oslo, the Oslo connection, has been launched as an outer ring around the central Oslo area, and will be able to relieve Oslo – as a hub in the transport system, also called Ring 4. In national context, the cross-link is rv. 35 main connection to the Gardermoen for Inner Telemark, parts of Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, Numedal, Hallingdal, Valdres, parts of Lower Buskerud and West Upland. These areas are those areas of the country which have the longest way to aerodrome. Rv. 35 through Jevnaker has a daily traffic of about 9 000, i.e. a vehicle every 15 to 16 years. Seconds 24 hours a day. 600 to 700 heavy duty vehicles are delayed daily on rv. 35 and creates queues and dangerous traffic situations. There's one big truck coming through the Jevnaker Center every two minutes all day. Today's rv. 35 has a terrible standard, and in any case the construction of a new line on Rv. 35 the road must be upgraded because it is not designed for soft road users on large sections of the route. It's totally unacceptable that nothing can be done about this. Rv. 35 has an increase of 6-7 pst. and is a stuttering road so narrow that it doesn't even have a yellow centreline. That's why it's very important to rv. 35 obtains a rapid future solution where the toll guidelines provide for road maintenance. It's a majority of the committee that gives these signals, which I think is very good. Once the Gardermoen terminal 2 is built and finished, a new one will be added. 35 and Ring 4 provide the necessary growth impulses to business through a better transport standard and shorter distances to make the housing and labour market more accessible throughout Hadeland. NTP is a rise. It is an important infrastructure that needs to be developed further, and I think that with the decision the Stortinget is going to take today, we really see that we are building the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1528	Good transport services are essential for the functioning and production of large and small communities. Traffic is the very circulation of blood in our society. I often hear statements about why money should be spent on transportation in the districts – there are so few people living there. It counts heads, but not kilometers, and it's taken away from the huge value creation that's going on in District Norway. I am pleased that we now have a government and a great majority who have understood how important transport is for everyone, and that city and country must go hand in hand. I am particularly pleased with the Northern Region Strategy of the Government and that it is followed up in the National Transport Plan. By strengthening the infrastructure in the north, we create far greater opportunities for nutrient development and settlement in the north, on which the country as a whole will benefit. In this context, I am pleased that we also have an investigation into the future transport needs in the north, where the development of rail in the north will be included. The development of ports and fairways will increase coastal value creation and provide greater security for those to feed on fishing and maritime activities. Let me, for example, mention the municipality of Vannvåg in Karlsøy, which is a vitally small coastal community, but which without a better fishing port will have no development opportunities. The fast route is a very important transport service for the population and for tourism businesses along the coast. I am very pleased with the measures that this government has taken to ensure the future of the fast-moving route. Without the introduction of a net pay scheme and the provision of additional grants, the situation could have been totally hopeless for the fast route. This power of action from the Government has people along the coast noticed themselves, and I expect the future of the fast route to be assured. I don't think everyone understands how important racial protection is more places in our country. Think of all the schoolchildren, the workers and all the heavy transport that must travel along rascal roads every day. At present, products are required to enter the market quickly and efficiently, and this is particularly important for the products to be freshly placed on the market. We cannot have it so that racial danger and lack of ferry capacity are to cause the loss of money and the market to the business community in the districts. So this is going to do something about it. In a comment, the Committee referred to a very old case in Troms, which concerns the continental link with Bjarkøy. Here we are also talking about a vibrant community with incredible opportunities for increased value creation and unique travel opportunities, but hampered by a lack of accessibility. Here the inhabitants say that they would gladly have a municipal merger with Harstad if they got a mainland connection, and Harstad would have such a merger, but under the same condition. This clearly tells us how important transport is in order to achieve the most rational operation in our society. The Langsund link in Troms County is another example of the fact that a continental link will dramatically improve the development potential of the community, and that must definitely come before it is too late. The states know the conditions best and must themselves be the sovereigns in prioritising their projects, but with the promise that is now in the NTP, Troms will also be able to implement several important projects in a shorter time. Today’s government and the majority of the population have shown that they are able to provide annual appropriations for transport in line with the national transport plan. Therefore, the best guarantee to realise the content of the new transport plan is to keep the red-green majority even after the autumn's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1547	I will first comment on the Right Chief Speaker, Trond Helleland, who, in his contribution, referred to the rule of action when he criticized the Government that in his opinion there is not enough interest in transportation. Greece is entitled to take measures for improved infrastructure as one of the areas referred to in St.meld. No 29 for 2000–2001 — how to use the return on State pension funds. However, it will be very tempting to remind the representative of Greece when his own party was in government, for at that time the Right-dominated Bondevik government did not even achieve its own objectives in the national transport plan for 2001–05. Bets on transportation were not prioritised at the time. The question that hangs in the air is why the right did not prioritise transportation much higher when they had the opportunity, especially given that they were involved in such a use of oil money. This government is building the country with a solid commitment to transportation. That's good, because the chase's big. We build more, we maintain better and we strengthen the collective offering. It says when VG used to have a front page that showed which ways to avoid this summer because of extensive asphalting. It then tempts with a rewrite of a well-known saying: Never so good that it is not wrong for anything. I'm afraid we have to live with the disadvantage that comes with both the necessary maintenance and construction of new roads and railway tracks for a long time to come. It concerns the whole country, but I will now focus a little on the Oslo area, and in this connection come into Oslopack 3. In the Oslo area there is now considerable investment in infrastructure, and it is time. For the last four years, I have followed the development and construction of a new double track between Lysaker and Sandvika on a daily basis. Let me remind you this: When we arrived at the government in 2005, we were about to start dismantling the works there. There was no money in the last budget of the Bondevik government for this double track. For train commuters from the west, in Akershus, from Buskerud and from Westfold, it is an obvious difference as to who is in charge of this country. You can see that every day, because this government is not just talking about bets on trains, roads and lanes – we're giving money to it. The need for new E18 through Asker and Bærum has been great for a long time. Once again, commuters from the same regions have been affected by lack of political action for many years. The cows west of Oslo are probably the most stable queues in the whole country. They are there every morning, every afternoon – almost five days a week. In addition, they are there on Sunday afternoon and evening, when the lodgers are going home to Oslo from Hallingdal, Westfold coast or Telemark. There are thousands of people living along one of the biggest environmental sins in the municipalities of Asker and Bærum. The inhabitants are plagued by noise and air pollution. Environmental tunnel under Sandvika and Asker is lengthened. For the first time, the E18 is within the national transport plan. That's good. Both the investment on trains – as we have seen, and as we are now moving over the fjord to Oslo-Ski after the stretch on the west side is finished – and the road in this region will also have major socio-economic consequences and benefits. The reasons why we now have large infrastructure investments are a broad cross-political consensus. All the parties that are part of the Oslo Pact 3 compromise must be commended for that. As the representative of Truls Wickholm pointed out earlier in the debate, this is a failed compromise. It is up to all parties to respect the basic principles agreed upon. This means, among other things: that the distribution between public transport and road projects must remain stable and that the main priorities must not be changed. Those who now sit in the steering group, i.e. County rapporteur Igstad in Akershus and City Council Kallmyr in Oslo, have a special responsibility for anchoring. What's special is that a representative of the Progress Party, Kalldmyr, has a hand on the steering wheel of a matter his party is largely opposed. The opposition to Oslopackak 3 at the Progress Party can be characterized in many ways – at least it is not impressive. Uncritical use of oil money is instead the answer of the Progress Party. The problem with such a position is that it goes beyond something else. It's okay to use oil money in and off, but it has consequences. First of all, you get less money in the future for pensions and well-being, and transportation for that matter, because it won't stop building the country once and for all. Even if we spend too much money now, we might also have to increase the tax level later. Secondly, you gamble with the crown price, which nobody I have met in the Norwegian export industry, seems to be a good idea. This doesn't tell the party's representatives about when they spend money in the East and West. The right has found its sarep tack. They're, of course, taking a distance from the oil money usage to the Advance Party. But if the occasion comes, everything will be solved with the spell of OPS. We heard that in the linecode exchange a little earlier today. I think the representative of Wickholm is in on something when he claims that the Right now uses OPS in the same way that the Advance Party uses oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1567	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1570	I agree with the committee that this is an ambitious national transport plan for the next ten years. An increase of 45 pst. must be good. Then we are lucky to have completed the E39 High Cooling – Harangen. The fact that this pair remained standing once a major extension project was started in the area has been difficult to swallow and completely impossible to understand and accept for the population of the region. Now this gets into place. When I was rapporteur in Meldal, I worked actively to remedy a short but dangerous road and accident-capped road bill, rv. 700, the ringlets of the Orkdal municipality on the border with Meldal. This was a very important project, especially for the industry at Løkken Werk. Among other things, military ammunition and class weapons from many countries in the world are transported after this turn and steep road, before being destroyed under environmentally optimal conditions in the Loop Mine. I sincerely hope that the county council now prioritises this project for a quick realization. We in the south have the impression that for a long time we have received little of the transport investment. But I have to say I see points of light in this NTP. Firstly, it is now added to an overall upgrading and expansion of E6 and Rv. 3 from Upplands and Hedmark's border with Trondheim, and, similarly, it is seized in relation to the Trønderban. The coordinated approach taken by both municipalities, including the combined strengthening of collective provision, is truly both innovative and forward-looking. I record this initiative that the government and the committee are taking care of. The electrification of the Meråkerbahn is also a very important project, where there is great commitment from the Swedish and Finnish sides. I have noticed the new loan scheme put at the disposal of the county councils, which helps to make it possible to get a more comprehensive grip on the transport investments. In addition to more money directly, this provides new and better opportunities. I hope that the work on electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråkerbahn can now be speeded up, so that the NSB will not be able to thank the old wagon material when they will consider investing in new wagon material on the Tronderbahn in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1585	This is a day of joy. Finally, we have a transport plan with visions. We have a Council of State and a government that has lifted the transport sector. We have a government that sees that you have to use resources to tie the country together. People have noticed that there has been a new government and a new Minister of Transport in Norway. My home country, Hedmark, is a good example. It's a traffic jam. It has four different railways and three major highways, linking Norway and Sweden together. What's happened? Construction of new four-field E6 is in progress. This government showed political will and overthrew the Road Directorate. E6 is expanded from both sides – it is fully ‘driving’. Today's NTP provides for further expansion. That's very good. New double tracks on the Dovreban were raised in the action package. In today's NTP, it's being lifted further. Over $6 billion is in there. The measure package contained 30 million. kr in order to initiate design. That's a big victory. It will be a revolution for our area when the double-track railway between Gardermoen and Hamar is in place. Then to the Rørosbanen. In connection with the previous NTP, which was adopted five years ago, questions were asked about the future of the Rørosbanen. Should we still have passenger traffic on this track? Today no questions are asked about it. It has been full ‘driving’, it is full train. Today's red-green majority would rather raise this question: Should the Rørosbane be electrified – and also the Solørbane? In the previous NTP was rv. Three is completely out of the question. It only got a few small, ugly heads. In the last election campaign, the Center Party went out and promised 100 million. kr every year to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox We were partly ridiculed by everyone – the promise was called unprofessional – also by our good friends in the Workers' Party and SV. By decision of today's NTP, there will be 140 million. kr every one year to rv. 3 - 1,400 million. kr, which means that we get a solid lift. It is a great victory to bind Norway together, and it is a great victory to manage to reduce the number of road accidents on one of Norway’s most accident-affected roads. This is a great day for the county of Hedmark. All the major roadways have been given a big boost. We've got a big boost in the railway sector. We've got a big boost in the road sector. We've also got a raise for rv. 3, a promise that everyone was against five years ago, but which everyone is for today. This is the final funeral of the lottery. Now we take the whole state seriously, and it's really cool.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1598	In the political debate, it is often said that the road standard in Norway is too poorly compared to other countries. There's probably a lot of truth in that, and that's why there's a lot more money to be spent in the coming planning period. But it is also important to bear in mind that Norway really has a lot of roads. There are only 50 countries in the world that have more roads than Norway, despite the fact that there are over 60 countries that have more land than Norway and over 100 countries that have more inhabitants. When we discuss the road, it is also less relevant than often to refer to Norway as one of the richest countries in the world. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world per year. the population, and per We also have over twice as much as we do. Germany. But Norway is the richest country in the world in terms of area, and that is what creates the special challenges we have in transport. I'm not saying it in any way to suggest that the roads are good enough, but because that's an important explanation of why we have the challenges we have, as I see it. I am pleased that so many projects have been included in the national transport plan, and I am particularly pleased with the commitment made by the Government to environmental measures, including: in rail and maritime transport. I want to mention two specific projects in particular. The first is a new Sotra connection, which in NTP is granted 400 million. kr, who will associate my municipality of residence, Fjell, with Bergen. In the Labour Party locally, we have seen this as an environmental project, mainly because a new link provides room for action on public transport, pedestrian and bicycle paths and urban railways, which are the vision of the future, but of course also because traffic over today's dual-field bridge is too large, for example. clearly greater than that of the Svinesund. Something has to be done about the long queues in rush traffic. I would like to thank the Council of State for its contribution to keeping progress, so that we can establish the new connection as quickly as possible. There is still a lot of work to be done, but this is a big day for my municipality. The second thing I want to mention is City Ship Tunnel, which gets 200 million. kr. Skipsleia past City is a fearsome and weather-hard area. I grew up right within the hardy city and remember a lot of extreme weather, such as. New year's hurricane on 1 January 1992. In the local population, the possibility of a tunnel has been discussed for a long, long time. City ship tunnel is not just a project that one primarily needs locally, but a project that is important for safety along the whole coast. Therefore, I am pleased with the work done to anchor the project, such as, among other things. The representative of Glüsth has been involved. A ship's tunnel will not only create tourism and local ring-effects, but most of all provide a safer ship'slayer past West Cape. It's a national interest, and I'm looking forward to the tunnel being realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1611	Throughout the post-war period, the development of transport in Norway has been piece by piece and split. Even after oil revenues began to flow into the treasury, this trend has continued. Short budgets and eager district politicians helped to make road construction a patchwork. This was where all the states were to have their own. Conservative traffic forecasts provide low road standards. An example of this from my home country of West Agder is the E39 expansion in the Lister package. At the same time as the opening in 2006, the Vegvesen evaluation concluded that the road was already old-fashioned. Many of the previous road development problems can be attributed to the lack of local politicians to see the large lines in the transport sector. That a small municipality can stop a regulation plan, and thus also the project itself, does not belong in today's democracy. The implementation of these master plans must be the responsibility of the State. If necessary, it is necessary to amend the legal basis so that municipalities become only consultative bodies. The Progress Party calls on the Government to draw up comprehensive plans for the entire transport sector so that both national and local politicians can at any time be informed of well- detailed plans. Currently treated NTPs must be said to be very conservative, in particular in terms of progress. Drivers have to pay more and more of the road construction. During the NTP period, the drivers will pay approx. 500 billion more to the treasury than what they get left in the NTP. Toll expansion has become a growth industry for the Government. In 25 years, the Progress Party will develop the necessary tribal and national road networks. The Progress Party proposes to increase the overall framework to NTP by NOK 580 billion. This is a reasonable redistribution and a hedge of government funds from shares and funds to real values that are not cyclical. In West Agder, the Progress Party proposes to spend $20 billion on building four-field E39 from Kristiansand to Sandnes within the NTP period. The corresponding amount in the Government's NTP is SEK 3.49 billion, of which NOK 2 billion is tolls. The Progress Party further proposes to build a new upgraded Rv. 41 towards Kristiansand airport, Kjevik and to build a new four-field rv. 456 Wågsbygs– E39. The Progress Party proposes to spend SEK 1.6 billion between 2010 and 2019. The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal to build a new Varoddbru in the period. The Progress Party proposes to prioritize rv. 469 Hidra Landfast in the period. The Progress Party will expand Kristiansand Airport, Kjevik and Kristiansand Port. Without the big effort of the Progress Party, the transport sector will suffer from poor progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1632	When I travel around the North, there's always one policy area that creates a huge commitment, and it's transportation. I've been thinking a lot about why it's like this. I shall honestly admit that I have looked for the ideological divisions within this policy area. I found the answer. Everyone has a know-how job that they want to repair or build, and many in the districts feel that the transport effort has been in the central eastern region for years. This government will repair, maintain and build roads across the country. When it was possible for the normal man in the street to buy a car, it created freedom for people. One no longer depended on bus or train to transport himself and the family from place to place. Over the past 30 to 40 years, the car has become a matter of course in our society, and most people can afford to get it. Many have become dependent on the car. Many might think that this has gone too far. After four years in Oslo, I can agree with that. But in small villages, both north and south, people depend on the car to get to work, to transport the children to and from kindergarten and to leisure activities in the evening. That's probably why I meet a lot of commitment to roads in North Norway. But it's not just individuals who depend on good transportation solutions. It's also business. Therefore, not only do we build new and better roads so that private individuals can move in a safer and safer way, but we stimulate business to bet and further develop even in the districts. Hålogalandsbrua is a good example of the measures proposed in the National Transport Plan, which will stimulate industry in North Norway. North of Narvik, on the E6 between Narvik and Bjerkvik, most of the food transport is in North Norway. Hålogalandsbrua will allow business to create greater values in North Norway, and during the construction period, the Ofoten region will mark ring-effects and opportunities in the construction of the bridge. I see it as natural that the project is partly financed by tolls. The Narvik community has also agreed to shut down the airport at Framneslia when the bridge is over. I note that the Progress Party locally and here at Stortinget does not agree on this. The progress party has placed itself locally in a position as guarantor of the maintenance of the airport at Framneslia. Even the local representative Kenneth Svendsen was in the future Monday this week and guaranteed that the bridge will not be laid down as long as the passenger base remains at a relatively high level. In the comments in the settings we are dealing with today, the Progress Party writes that on the day Hålogalandsbrua is ready, ‘the Narvik short-haul aerodrome can be shut down’. Brua will create great opportunities for development for the whole region, including: this will result in a shortening of the journey time between Narvik and the aerodrome at Evenes. For 20 years this has been at the planning stage, and I'm very happy that it's now becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1647	Transportation is in the staging room. There's a good catch outside the staging room, too. Most people are concerned with bad roads, tolls, ferries and race protection. Let me repeat: the government of Stoltenberg shall have praise to focus on transportation. But let me also repeat that the government Stoltenberg gets criticism from the Progress Party that good focus is not translated into good transport policy. The need for modernisation is enormous. The effort must be measured against the need. The government's perspective is that it will continue to be 50 years before Norway has a modern, safe and environmentally friendly road network. In Norwegian transport policy, there are many paradoxes. In the Nordic context, Norway has long been the richest country. We have the worst road network. Our Nordic neighbours pay very little toll. In Norway, tolls are now a rule rather than an exception. One thing we should learn from our Nordic neighbours, who don't have oil and gas, is that road and rail development is considered a central part of business policy. They have built good roads without destroying the economy. I can't see that the road construction in Sweden, Denmark and Finland has destroyed the economy there. Nor can I see that the nations down in Europe that build roads at high speed have destroyed their economy – rather the opposite. They renew their infrastructure, their transport network and their transport networks to create new growth. Norway’s road network is in many places in decline. During the ten-year period covered by this plan, we need to carry out extensive modernisation and extensive upgrading, and the efforts of the Government will be too small to cope with it. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes substantial investments in the road network. Unfortunately, the network is in the same dire condition as the road network. We have to take a power cap to get speed on today's railway. The debate on lightning trains is characterized more by enthusiasm and imaginative calculations than by realism. If we were to take seriously that large parts of travellers were to be moved from plane to train between the big cities of South Norway, the economy of the few airports that today finance all the others. We hear little from the lyntogenic enthusiasts about how to finance the remaining domestic aviation, perhaps because they don't want domestic air services to be available when the lyntogens are built. The Progress Party sees the need for better state governance of planning and running interoperable solutions in the central cities, good solutions that connect road, rail, airport and port. The Progress Party will have State funding. It is included in the urban package of the Progress Party for Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1662	The NTP structure of the left is characterised by a large-scale effort on trains and a large-scale effort on public transport. The left is going to add NOK 30 billion more to the train than the government has in its arrangement, and we're going to put NOK 10 billion more into collective effort in the metropolitan areas. This is a priority that will satisfy. The result will be a reduction in travel time on many important sections and a collective lift in urban areas that the Government is not near to deliver. The left aligns its NTP priority as we do, because we take the climate and environmental challenges seriously. It was said by some in the environmental movement when the government presented its NTP scheme, that it smelled asphalt. The structure of the left-hand side smells like trains and public transport. It has a stake within realistic framework: we can deliver this. Policy is to prioritise, and the Left has done so in favour of trains and public transport. We've done this by adding more money than the government spends during the planning period, and by pushing on some road projects. I note that a majority wishes to move forward in the work on fast trains. That's good. However, one does not in any way provide the means necessary for such a bet to be made. With 30 billion more to train, the Left adds the basis for a quick and fast approach on central sections of Norway. The mismatch between the quick and fast ambitions and what one is actually able to achieve is well expressed when one not from the Government is proposing to carry out tunnel projects in the Drang valley in Rogaland. There is a distance where the train is now running for 20 km per hour. With the government's plans, one will continue to do it for another ten years, and then one will create some sort of expectation in people that one will get fast and in Norway. The left provides a proposal that paves the way for one to start working on this tunnel during the last planning period. The left has also contributed to a bet in metropolitan areas, which means that one should be able to provide state support for an urban railway project in the north of Europe. It is a very important project to get a well-functioning and environmentally friendly urban area. There is too weak a government party formulation in terms of state commitment to support this, and what is even worse, is that government parties do not set aside the means necessary to contribute to the development of a North-Jären urban railway. It does that to the Left through its billion bets in the metropolitan areas, and we look forward to getting in position to help start this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1682	It is a very rich and comprehensive transport plan for the next ten years that we are dealing with today. The working party and the invading sport of the red-green government have been that we should build up infrastructure in all parts of the country, either a living in the north, south, east or west. We want to bind the country together rather than put the different parts of the country up against each other. I see that the leader of the Progress Party has been on the south, more specifically on Nøtterøy, and was told clearly that she will not give priority to road development in the West and North Norway. Transport infrastructure needs to be expanded where the need is greater, and that is in the East, was the clear message. It's an ambitious transport plan that's now being addressed, where it's charged to spend 100 billion more on transportation during the planning period, when we keep it together with the current plan. In addition, increases are due to the fact that county councils from New Year will assume responsibility for county roads. If we look at Finnmark, there's a lot to enjoy when it comes to road appropriations in the different parts of the county. The same applies to fishing ports and ferries on the coast of Finnmark, where there has been a very strong increase. In the case of road projects, it is very positive that funds have now been put in to ensure that the E6 road west of Alta can be completed. There I would like to commend the Minister of Transport, for she has been in various contexts. Once it has stopped, she has tried to find the means to move on. That's what she's supposed to be for. The same applies to additional funds for wound-intrusive upgrading of rv. 94 Skaidi-Hammerfest. It must also be mentioned that there are already funds in the current year's budget to start upgrading RVs. 94 on the route around Seiseholmen Bru, which is very dangerous to traffic and where unfortunately traffic accidents have occurred. The E69 Skarvberg tunnel has, fortunately, also come along. In East Finland, funds are allocated to both E105 on the route Storskog-Hesseng and E6 Tana bridge. In addition, we know that there are many millions of bridge and road projects in the package of measures that came earlier this year, for example, 30 million. kr for remedial measures on rv. 98 Ifjord Mountain, which can be seen as a first step to reduce the distance between East Finland and West Finland all year round. There are also a number of coastal projects involved: fishing ports and fairways throughout the county. So I would like to comment on the question of the investigation of a coastal road in Finnmark to shorten the distance between East and West. I have worked for it as rapporteur in Hammerfest, I have worked for it in the staging position and I will do it when I'm back in Hammerfest. I understand that the majority in this round did not go into the minority's proposal for an investigation. The county council should first come in and give priority to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1701	If a district is to survive and flourish, the road network must be up-to-date. It's no use talking about district policy if you don't have good and safe roads for your people. Children are going to kindergarten, school and activities and adults are going to work and for other purposes. It can't be that people move and the alleys die out in the absence of a safe road. When you read in the paper that today’s pace will take 340 years before rv. 3 is repaired, people and business are not in line to move there. It goes without saying that the opposite will happen. Now this newspaper article was dated 19 December 2002, but it says a lot about how the road standard in Hedmark was and is. In Hamar Arbeiderblad on 4 June of this year, i.e. a week ago, we can read that rv. 25, the road to Trysil, is no longer good enough for the 90 km/h zone. It doesn't meet today's requirements. There are no midpoints, it is inconspicuous and not least worn out in many places. For tourism, among other things, the road is a bottleneck and gives negative signals. For the county of Hedmark, tourism is of the highest importance in terms of housing and business. The Directorate of Road understands that the speed limit has to go down, but wouldn't it have been more correct that you had given enough money so that you could have repaired the road and kept 90 km/h? Rv. 25 p.a. between Hamar and Elverum should undoubtedly become a four-field road. There is so much traffic here that there are still giant islands and accidents. There will be a win-win situation for everyone if it is repaired. In Hedmark, we can't get out of E6. It has to be repaired, and it has to be repaired at a continuous pace without stopping. The road is well known to everyone in terms of traffic volume and not least the number of fatal accidents. It's a disaster for everyone if it doesn't happen. The same applies to rv. 2: Enough money and no more postponements! The road is very important, and everyone serves a continuous expansion. Cranes about lines and protection interests must cease to exist in order to bring about the interests of the big community. I'm glad to see you. 3 seems to be getting funds. But if it had been up to me and the Advance Party, this had been solved earlier. Already in spring 2005, the Progress Party arranged for part of this road in the revised state budget, and 11 km of road was upgraded. I heard with great interest the post from Hedmark Centerpartis representative and his boasts, among others. rv 2. But if I remember correctly, it's probably the Center Party that has delayed the performance of this important road for, among other things. Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1714	This is a happy day for us who are from Follo. For many years we have been working for a new double track Oslo–Ski. Today it is agreed, the largest project in NTP. Already in the budget, we set aside funds for the pre-planning of the double track, and when the government presented the NTP in March, the double track was set in. There had to be another red-green government! In addition, it has been put in place as a project to have coherent and holistic development with a separate entry on the State budget. This is important to ensure optimal progress. I see that the opposition has put in a proposal for OPS and claims that then the project will be realized more quickly. But the planning has already started, and in 2011 is a ready to start the expansion of Oslo–Ski. Then one starts with the construction on Ski Station. In parallel with this, the planning programme and the regulatory work of the three municipalities are subject to hearings and decisions to be implemented, and a basis is to be taken. But may it be that the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party are not so concerned that the processes are going to be democratically separate? I ask you, should you not take into account your local authorities' work? It is quite clear that during Bondevik II, there was nothing happening with Follobana, neither the plan mediums for the Ski Station nor the double track was prioritised. So I understand that it is bitter for the Right, Left and Christian People's Party representatives, especially those from Akershus, that they must admit that there is a red-green government that gets it through. The social benefits of new double-track Oslo–Ski extend far beyond Follo’s borders. It will benefit very, very many. The double-track Oslo-Ski is in a region with a population of over 900,000 with 19 pst. by the population of Norway. According to the SSB, Oslo and Akershus can expect a population growth of 30 p.m. by 2025. Today, 150,000 people travel daily through the South Corridor. This shows the need and importance of the new track. Today we can celebrate. With a red-green government, we are sure to have a new double track Oslo-Ski, which will be a joy for all commuters, which will allow for more goods on the road, and which is the start of the high-speed path to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1726	In the Sogn and Fjordane, we have a road section known in the national media as one of the most dangerous and most miserable we have in the country. It is the tourist road towards the tourist magnets Stryn, Olden and Loen, the Olden-Innvik road section. This is one of the most dangerous and badest road sections that the state has exported to Sogn and Fjordane County, without having followed the necessary means. There is today a promise of 110 million. kr. The State Road Service has developed a proposal to build a tunnel in the most dangerous area and to use tunnel mass for further development of the road. But this will require an additional 20 million. kr. Based on the challenges and priorities of the majority of state politicians in Sogn and Fjordane, and with which the Council of State is well aware, several decades may elapse before this route can be satisfactorily remedied. In recent times, several travel companies have been aware that they are no longer willing to send their buses with tourists through this route. If the travel companies make serious efforts to boycott this travel area in the interior of North fjord, it could have major negative repercussions, both locally and centrally. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Transport in the revised to help with an extra 20 million. kr for upgrading the Olden-Innvik road section. So a few words about the City Tunnel. It is very gratifying that for the first time government funds have been earmarked for the construction of this ship's tunnel. I was the first president of a propelling company for this project that was created in 1984. Since then, I have worked with many other fireworks to realize this ship's tunnel. In all these years since 1984, City Ship Tunnel has been highlighted as a fantastic project that will have great positive value for the entire Western world. The State's trade union has developed a pilot project for the project, which concluded that the shipbuilding tunnel would lead to a positive social economy. At the 2005 elections, the tunnel was supported by all political parties in Sogn and Fjordane. However, it is not satisfactory what is in the NTP, where the government has set of 200 million. kr, and write that the project can thus start up at the end of the planning period, that is to say towards 2019. I am therefore very pleased that the Progress Party and the other opposition parties have, in their comments, submitted to a much earlier launch of this project that is so important to the entire Western world. Then, on 14 September, the elections will be decisive as to whether the tunnel will be realised during this planning period, or, if the current government is still to govern the country, it will not be possible to put the tunnel into operation until after 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1743	Today, the size deals with the transport plan of the times. The plan that is now being rolled was, as we all know, adopted under the previous government of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. But it wasn't their proposal that got a majority in 2004. The Labour Party's proposal of 22 billion kr more was supported by the Progress Party, the Coastal Party, SV and the Center Party. The chairperson of the right-wing committee claimed that the plans were never to be implemented. They did, but only when Navarsete took over. As the first ever, the red-green government has not only fulfilled but even over-filled the current transport plan. Now the effort is increased by a further DKK 100 billion. Many people have reason to be satisfied today, including us in Buskerud. Important projects are included: rv. 23, where the Oslo soil connection ends in a residential street through the Røken and Lier, E134 that's going out of Kongsberg center, and the new Ringerix railway, which comes because we double the appropriations for the railway. The municipality of Drammen can benefit from a strong escalation of the reward scheme for public transport, to mention something. But there's an even greater reason to be satisfied today. 45 pst. increasing the framework opens up completely new possibilities for universal design of transport systems. The Discrimination and Availability Act has been followed up in a new action plan with an ambitious objective: universally designed Norway by 2025. ‘All shall be included’ is the social vision which, in the context of the NTP, actually has a quite concrete meaning — everyone should be included, on the train, on the bus, on the ferry, on the road. Everything new is going to satisfy the requirements below, and it costs very little. It actually pays off. Punctuality increases because it becomes easy to walk off and on for everyone. Carrying baby carriages and heavy suitcases becomes a fairy tale. Wheelchair signs become superfluous. But it's a little bit ahead, because now the bill comes for old sins. All parties have a responsibility for it. The red-green government is adding a new gear, but not all of the pieces are on the move. The Right Party and the Progressive Party point out that the lack of transport offers is a major cause of discrimination. A large group of people are excluded from participation in society. The more incomprehensible it becomes that the same parties write in black and white that they don't want to spend tens of billions of dollars of taxpayers' money for a general upgrading of all holding positions. The husband of a cynical mind! And the make to spin! Exactly one year and a day ago, the Kenneth Svendsen Progress Party stood on this pulpit and proposed an absolute deadline for the universal design of all existing buildings, installations, open spaces, etc. by 2025. That's how long it lasted – one year and one day. It should be noted that the organisations of disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1754	For one who has driven a train on the Nordlandsbanen for approx. 30 years ago, when movements north of Grong both went sideways and in all other directions simultaneously – in other words, there was a lack of both pucks and sleepers – that has felt that we were for approx. 12 years ago, the route between Trondheim and Hell had to be closed because there was also a lack of pucks and sleepers, and that in its time had its full tenant to convince the Stortinge that buying Rolls-Royce on rails does not help, if you lack pucks and sleepers, it is good that there will be pucks and sleepers. But the left would like to highlight very strongly that we're not just for a vision of thinking a lot about railway, as many will, but we're also to bet money on it. That is why we are moving SEK 30 billion to strengthen the railway effort both at the intercity triangle in the East and also at the Oslo-Trondheim, Oslo-Bergen and Oslo-Kristiansand connections. It means, in practice and in clear terms, that where others are careful to investigate visions of the future, Left spends money on something that is necessary, while we wait for the investigations to come. Investigations are fine, but there is a need for money, and the money has to be invested where it is to be invested, and the railway needs it. I have grown up myself at a time when the vitrases were renewed evenly and well. I'm glad, but we know that the railroad tracks have not been renewed. We know that the Vestfold track follows a trajectory that is so old that it's a fascinating nature study to join it on parts of the distance. In the second part of the article, I want to take out my ‘cityfile’ leg — we are talking about the letter ‘y’ — and it's about investing in public transport in a proper way. I would like to remind the big hall that Oslo and Akershus together spend more money on collective services – approx. A total of NOK 2 billion – as the government spends on purchasing NSB services. There is a huge investment, and in that effort there is a collective willingness at local level to tax car traffic through Oslopacket 3, which is essentially – approx. half – goes to collective action and road safety measures. It's a formidable bet. I would like to say that I admire those who now live in Trondheim, the city where I grew up, both 5 kroner and 10 kroner in toll rates, but that is approx. 40 kr in Oslo/Akershus. I hope the state will not use it that there is a party bureau in Oslo, against the fact that Oslo, together with Akershus, is betting. We know that the bet counts. We know it's 12 pst. increase in public transport in this area, while motor vehicle traffic is falling. In other words, it is a political will to make that take-off. And then the nice news is that there's a electoral majority to do this in this part of the country, in Oslo and Akershus, because you deliver results. It's not like in other parts of the country, that if you try a bombing, you get a special party, because someone's responsible. The left marks strongly, in relation to the red-green, a railway bet, not only by having good words, but also strong reprioritisation will on crowns. We are strongly committed to rewarding public transport in the largest cities. That's important, and we're going to fight for that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1767	Our well-being and development of industries and jobs require a well-developed transport structure. My county, Hedmark, is a large and long-term group of scattered settlements, and a large part of the traffic to and from other counties must pass through the county. The train plays an important role for the central areas, but it cannot meet much of the county’s needs. Road is the central one. We're in arrears. Either that's Rv. 2 against Sweden, rv. 3 or E6 to Trondheim, the traffic load and the freight loads are too high in relation to the road standard we have. We can't wait 10, 15, or maybe 20 years. The loads, the fatal accidents and the tragedies are too many already, and then I have not mentioned the central roads as rv. Twenty-five to Trysil. Norway’s largest tourist destination will be hampered in its development without a better path. Therefore, I cannot understand the majority's opposition to OPS projects. The government has come up with no alternative to getting more speed on the development of the central trajectories in the country. I want to compare this with something most Norwegians know about – investment in housing. Hardly anyone in the North saves more money to buy the dwelling. Then you wanted to stay at home or in a low standard dwelling for a long time. No, we do the opposite: we get loans in the bank with future earnings and income as the limiting factor for the size of the loan. OPS gives us the same roadside capability. Hedmark will leave its low standard dwelling and enter a road standard that is able to handle the load that the county already has today. Hedmark cannot afford to wait for the Government's appropriations. I am driving on the innovation ‘small 4-field road’, as it is called, which was built between Klöfta and Nybakk on Rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox I cannot understand that roads with a traffic load of 7 000 to 8 000 vehicles in annual traffic can be planned with a lower standard than this, and I am pleased that the majority have joined with Right on such solutions instead of alternating lanes and 3 field solutions. Finally, the debate about high-speed trains amazes me a little. The fact that not the whole committee is behind a focus on a Nordic triangle and the connection to Stockholm is incomprehensible to me. This is probably the easiest way to expand. The Swedes have done a lot already, and that's where you compete for most passengers. The basis for good profitability should then be present, and therefore also focus on the development of the link with Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1780	For us in East Agder, it is gratifying that the new E18 Tvedestrand – Arendal has re-entered the transport plan, after it had previously fallen out. This is a stretch that is very unwell, due to very many detours, school road and generally poor standard. I also have to mention that the expansion of Rv. 9 through Seatesdal shoots speed, and that gives cause for optimism. As far as the Oslo–Stavanger route is concerned, I am pleased that the Government is now assessing double tracks in all or part of the Eidanger route. This is essential to get a connection between the South and Westfold Railways. For the whole of East Agder, and especially for my home municipality, Gjerstad, it is very important to realize this connection. Large areas that can also be attractive to, for example: housing, is set aside in view of the future railway network in my municipality. The commitment and impatience are great all over South Africa, and I now perceive that the visions and objectives are ready for the railway to become a fast and competitive alternative to the aircraft, bus and car from Oslo and perhaps as far as Stavanger. Another thing that matters to South Africa, which I have to take with me, is that it is very gratifying that we are now taking action on oil protection along the south coast. With the traffic in Skagerrak, there is no doubt that it is urgent to increase the towing boat capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1789	In ten years, in 2019, commuters to Eastfold and Akershus will be able to use the new double track Oslo–Ski. Ten years – yes, let's say up to ten years and not one day anymore. The Christian People's Party is impatient because the climate challenges make us impatient. This is why we want a new double-track Oslo-Ski to be explored as a cooperation between private and public actors. The representative, Mr. Eldegard, discussed this in his contribution and said that we did not want good processes when we could promote anything like this. This claim is without any coating. As commuter on this route and further on to the Eastern line, I am pleased that the Stortinget today agrees that the Eastern line should be connected to the new double track. This has not been a matter of course, although it should have been. But the Stortinget makes this a reality today. The east line is from 1882. We as commuters are happy in this line, and we are patient. It shows us the chart that NSB will be presenting to us next week. According to that, we're going to spend 6 minutes more per. trip when we're going out to drive trains. But then let's hope that the new timetable and the train will be a little bit more interconnected than they have been in the last few years. There are many who want to use the train, and therefore the Christian People's Party has proposed to increase the number of departures from and to Rakkestad, and also to determine whether we can get a connection between the East and the West. 20 pst. of all international freight services to and from Norway transported on E18 through Eastfold, and therefore it is important that this road route be completed – not only through Eastfold but all the way into Winterbridge. But before we can build the road, the plans have to be done. Unfortunately, they are missing on the E18 route from Retvedt to Winterbro. Therefore, it has been important for the Christian People's Party directly in the NTP setting to say to the State Road Service that they can prioritise planning resources on this important road section. Unfortunately, the government parties are not involved in this, which I strongly regret with regard to the progress on the E18 to Winter Bridge. The E18 is important for the Christian People's Party, for us in the Inner Eastfold and for all Easternfold states. I hope that even if you're not in this comment, the commitment and the will will be there for us to succeed, and for us to come to the Winter Bridge during this planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1804	I have listened to many articles today, and I get an experience that we live in a little different ways, even though we have the same document to stick to. Unlike some opposition speakers, I would like to commend the Minister of Transport and the Government for an offensive and good proposal in the National Transport Plan. Never before has a plan been presented that is as ambitious as the plan we are dealing with today. Although my colleague, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, does not enjoy himself equally, the national transport plan is very much opposed to Telemark – both by industry, trade unionism and the local environment around Telemark. I think Telemark has come to a great deal better in this national transport plan than in the previous ones, because now we have been able to achieve unity in the county, contrary to previous priorities. Now we are some about the priorities and about trasévala. I want to start with E18. I am pleased that a multi-annual will give priority to the development of the E18 Langangen-Dørdal. I have recorded that there is a desire for optimal progress in the planning of the development of this route. If there is local connection to toll financing – which I expect will go very well – the toll company can raise a loan of approximately 500 million. kr, so that start-up can take place in the last part of this first four-year period. Then we're on – that's what's important! This is very positive and a completely different offensive than the rhetoric of the Progress Party. They are most concerned about presenting this as a negative case. Another important and positive project for Telemark is the Århus-Gvammen tunnel on E134. The result is a great pleasure for all those who have worked for this project for many years. The planning has come so far that the spade can strike the earth tomorrow. New tunnels over Haukeli and the proposal for a new Haukeli tunnel to be implemented in the second part of the planning period are also a very happy signal. So a little bit about the railway -- new path Farriseidet-Porshund, or the Eidangger connection that we can call it in Telemark. The new route will provide a saving of 22 minutes in runtime between these two points, and there will be a new time for the rail supply between Grenland and Oslo. Since this connection was initially planned as a single-track route with crossing tracks, it is very positive and happy that it is now necessary to consider whether it is more appropriate to build the whole or part of the route as a double track – then in order to connect the Vestfoldbahnen and Sørlandsbanen. So a little heart rate at the end: it's rv. 36 and Rv. 41. If the two sections had been mentioned in the national transport plan, it would have been perfect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1825	Hålogalandsbrua north of Narvik is the largest transportation project in North Norway for the next ten years. SEK 2.2 billion will be used to build a bridge that will bind regions and communities together. We've fought this for too long in Narvik, and got with Hålogaland. It will reduce the driving time between Narvik, Evenes and Harstad by 18-20 minutes. It means saved fuel and reduced emissions. It will also increase the speed of betting on goods by rail to and from North Norway. The E6 north of Narvik has experienced an incredible growth in freight traffic over the last 10 to 15 years, as a result of the ARE train – freight transport by rail from Oslo to North Norway. Therefore, Narvik is today the largest hub for freight transport in the country. I am very pleased that the government has prioritised this, and that we can start building the bridge in the first four years. The municipality of Narvik has also accepted that the aerodrome can be shut down, because the bridge will shorten the driving time to Evenes to an acceptable level. As the financing of the bridge is described, there is some uncertainty as to how much toll will be. I assume that the government will assume that it will amount to 700 million. kr, that the toll rates will be at a moderate level – as described by the regional roadmap manager’s plan – and that the remaining 1.4 billion will be financed by the state, inter alia. at the time of saving funds from the aerodrome closure. We also assume that the aerodrome will last until the day of the opening of the Hålogaland Bridge. The public transport reward scheme has doubled from 2008 to 2009 and is to be further doubled over the four-year period – to 647 million. kr per year. Only the municipality of Tromsø in Northern Norway receives grants from this scheme. We've been working to get cities like Bodø into companies with environmental cities that can apply for money from the scheme, and we've had an impact. The red-green majority will give all cities with major environmental and traffic challenges the opportunity to apply for four-year public transport grant agreements. It requires cities to use instruments that consistently prioritize buses, railways and bicycles. Bodø is a city with 50,000 inhabitants. It has a very low collective share today. Car traffic accounts for about 60 pst. of all climate emissions. The municipality has stepped up its parking policy, and the municipality of Nordland is preparing its own plan to strengthen public transport in Bodø, which is the centre of a large region. We want to do a job to get more money for the Salt Pendant, the railway between Rognan and Bodø. So Bodø has to do its part of the job, make an offensive plan to strengthen public transport, reduce car traffic and climate emissions. Kristiansand municipality received 285 million. DKK over four years last week to bet on public transport and climate change. Bodø should have the ambition to have a formidable investment of several tens of millions of dollars in the years of thunder, bus and runway, climate and environment. Finally, the Hurtigruten has worn out financially over a long period of time. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport took action a year ago and added more money into the agreement, so that it is possible to maintain normal operation until a new tender. The Hurtigruten is very important for North Norway, and especially along the coast of North Norway, where, in addition to being important for travel life, it is very important for freight and passenger transport. I would ask the Council of State to submit the new tender in line with the very clear signals coming from Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1846	There is no doubt that today we are dealing with a very ambitious transport plan. From 2010, it will be even more interesting to join state policy. They are then given a great responsibility for the new roads to which they are now allocated their ownership. We're talking about almost 20,000 kilometers of former state road network. This measure will enable the county to better coordinate and make overall priorities between the road sector and other sectors. This is where I think the county council will have a better status as regional development actor. If land and transport planning has not been important before, it will at least now. A lot of people are happy to get to grips with this new problem. But I think it's going to be very exciting for a lot of people. Now it is the state politician who has to take this important responsibility. After all, the state politician knows best about the problem or the challenge, and then it would be natural that this politician should be held responsible. This is why it is very important for local politicians to keep their eyes on the right spot. The county council is transferred to the framework for investment in operation and maintenance of the county road network to the country in 2009, i.e. I'll give you $5 billion. In addition, a further DKK 1 billion is transferred. to county transport municipalities for 2010. In addition, it is planned to introduce an interest-rate compensation scheme for transport measures in the counties of DKK 2 billion per year. years. Large parts of the transport sector have been neglected by many governments. Trust in what was in the NTP has been very little. In the NTP, it was very good, but what was the point of it when appropriations to achieve the goals set were totally lacking? This determined the red-green government to do something with all from day one. Today's government has fulfilled the framework laid down in the previous NTP, in fact overfilling the framework by nearly NOK 2 billion, and in the context of the package of measures in these financial crisis times there was an additional DKK 3.8 billion. Many transport projects in Rogaland are important for housing, industrial development, road safety and public transport. For many years, there has been a focus on connecting Ryfylke with Ryfast. Now this can finally become a reality by the construction of the Eiganes tunnel. Getting the two large food clusters in Rogaland, namely the North Juice and Haugaland, closer together, can now become a reality through a tunnel under the Bokenfjord, the so-called Rogfast. But waiting for this route to be built, and the Haugaland T-connection finally started, there will be increased pressure on the Bokenfjord ferry connection. That's why I hope we can consider getting a third ferry on this route. E134 goes from Drammen to Haugesund, thus linking the West and the East. On this route there are many bottlenecks that are now being fixed, and I will mention specifically the tunnel in Stordalen, which has been a challenge for a long time. The railway will have a significant investment in this transport plan, which I am pleased to see, and I would like the Drangsdalen as a bottleneck to have its solution as soon as possible. It is an offensive transport plan that we are adopting today – a forward-looking transport effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1865	Today, I feel a great pleasure standing on the platform talking about transportation, talking about infrastructure. We experience a situation where we finally get to a real bet. I'll go as far as to say that this is a historic bet. What's the main thing here is being done as a handshake to business. It is business that in the years to come, really enjoys what is happening today, and it commits to a proper follow-up in retrospect. I would like to point out that a total collapse has been clear and clear that we are going to have a North Region bet. Now it's done. Most of the parties have recognised that the northern regions have the great economic resources that we are going to provide for future generations. In addition, we've got an area of 230,000 square kilometers that we're also going to take care of. NTP reflects that recognition. We've been on the railroad. We'll get a solution to the Gift Box, which means that we can make better use of the investments in the rail in the north than before. We have an increase in port investment of 77 pst. This is historic. We're getting an increase in investment in E6, the very lifeblood of our country, and we're doing something about the environment in my home country of Northern Ireland, because now we have the prospect of getting two gas ferries as a visible proof that we need it. In the case of the Nordic region, as a regional politician, I have seen the arrow pointing downwards, and investments in the road budget have come under 5 pst. We are approaching today almost 10 pst., in a state that has almost 11 pst. of the total road length of the country. Not since Johan J. Jakobsen was Minister of Transport, have we had such a level. What's nice is that almost all the parties on the Storting agree on this, in fact, despite the government's making the list so high, going over. This means that the chance of future investment in infrastructure is present. Let's hope that after the election we continue with a red-green government that really completes the race that they have now set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1878	As long as I've been in politics, I've been fighting for a modern railway operation, and that's why it's with great pleasure I can say today that we're about to do it. SV came into government, and it has certainly meant a difference, especially on the railway. Now we get a historical boost. We also have proposals for decisions in this position that point forward towards a truly modern, forward-looking railway policy. It also looks like all parties are going to compete for being good on the railway, and that actually makes me happy. But I'm probably a little bit in doubt, when it's carrying the heel, if everyone's on those railway priorities, if they have to prioritize between some major pedestals. There has been an SV clear, and perhaps the clearest part of it is that we prioritize the railway before the road. This is about climate, it's about road safety, it's about accessibility, and it's about comfort – it's not about knowing that in many places you also need other types of transport. But if we're going to get the promise that has to be made on the railway, we have to bet a lot, and that's what this government is about to do. Double tracks for Hamar are important. It is important that that double track reaches the point of Hamar, and I feel sure that the committee is now secure. For an overall good strategy, it is necessary to electrify the Solørbanen and the Rørosbanen. It is also mentioned in the setting. In addition, it is of course important to have middle parts and road safety on the roads we have that are dangerous. The high-speed bet is important. In fact, I agree with what the representative Gundersen from my home country said. I think the best route to start with in the case of high-speed trains should be the Oslo-Stockholm route. There is a short distance on the Norwegian side, a long distance on the Swedish side that is partly good, and one could get a cooperation with the Swedes, from which I think Norwegian railway development had benefited. Finally, a little bit about universal design. For the first time, large sums have been set aside to get a transport system that can be used by everyone. That's about. NOK 4.4 billion, and you might be able to discuss whether that's enough. We know that there must be a strong and strong commitment in the future. I will promise that I will raise the money like an eagle, so that no one who comes with good projects, and who wants to spend that money for something else, will be allowed to touch them. I also challenge my co-representatives and the state councils to that. That's not one penny too much. We now have to make sure that the investments we make can be used by everyone in an equivalent way. There we have a long way left in terms of both train, in terms of bus, in terms of aircraft, and in terms of availability. But also in that area, this new national transport plan signals a shift in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1890	We have now come to the posts where most say hello to some project that is either mentioned or to be realised. And that's important, because we all have some projects that we want to do during the time we're sitting on the Stortinget, and we're actually working for it. I don't need to say hello at home today, because when we're in a government party, the decision on the home state is still taken away, because it's about building the country like a stone on a rock – a building here, a bridge there, etc. So I kind of don't need to mention any special sections or something like that in Bergen or in the Bergen area or in Hordaland today. But I think it's in place to remind the opposition that this government has actually delivered what it has promised, and a little more. So we've got more and more to go to the railway, and I also know that the opposition comments and thinks it's good, because it gives credibility. The reason for the government’s success was that the Workers’ Party, SV and the Center’s party were able to gather around a level that was then supported by the Progress Party at the end of the previous ageing period. So we've been doing that over this period. So I'm going to think about what the opposition is doing right now. The left will like to increase by DKK 12 billion in relation to the government's proposal, the Christian People's Party will increase by DKK 15 billion, the Right by NOK 31 billion and the Progress Party – I understand – by NOK 580 billion more in the ten-year period that we have ahead of us. I find it strange to listen to the representative Halleraker who is talking about the Røre's journey plan that they are going to implement in the next period, and I ask myself, who are they going to implement it with? I know they agree on a number of proposals, etc., but who are they going to implement it with when it cracks like that in what to bet on, etc.? The right-hand side says that in the case of transport, they will have special funding to ensure that they do so in the future. They say it's so important above all other things that they're going to bet on it like that. Christian People's Party doesn't do that, they don't bet the same way. Neither does the progress party – they don't say that this is the only thing. So my question is – and I think this debate here reveals something about: What is going to happen – in a way – to the opposition parties in the next period? Who's going to do what? So that's not going to answer these parts at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1901	In their contributions, the right has praised Public Private Cooperation, OPS, in the development of road and rail – their main act of speeding up transport investments and building a modern Norway, as they call it in their alternative plan. They have praised privatisation and competitive outsourcing. Now they've talked enough, as they plan to do, now they're going to act – as if Norway's been quiet while the Right has been talking together for the last four years. I strongly react to the rhetoric that the Right uses to highlight its own transport policy and characterise the government parties. All the so-called new grips proposed by the Right are old and tried before. Two of the OPS projects currently under way or completed were promoted as pilot projects by the government of Stoltenberg I. We have evaluated these projects, and positive experience is that the projects are implemented more effectively because the projects have a predictable funding and can be planned predictably and coherently. Negatively, there's nothing cheaper -- on the contrary, it's out of stock, and we know it's more expensive. For the Workers' Party, it is important to give priority to transport and spend more money on it in the next few years, while at the same time using the funds effectively and making a coherent and comprehensive development of large-scale projects. We've shown through the NTP we've implemented, and the one that's adopted today, that we're open to using different solutions, including OPS, and that we're willing to spend a lot of money on transportation. However, based on the experience gained with OPS, we believe that we will get more money back by putting three major projects on our own budget, project funding, which will ensure what we all want, namely coherent and predictable development and funding. This is rejected and ridiculed by the Right, which is called ideology. I miss the fact that the Right is open to solutions other than the traditional and ideological solutions they come with in any context, namely privatisation and outsourcing. On the right, it consistently rejects the fact that the public can carry out the same tasks with the same quality and cost as private ones, even though experience from the outsourcing of e.g. Most show that money is not saved and is more efficient. It is Right that needs modernisation and open up new solutions, not the Workers' Party or the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1916	The center party and I are very busy with trains and not least lightning or high-speed rail, as it is also called. I will nevertheless use the very short, measured speaking time here to talk about the roads E16 and E6 through Uppland. I would like to start by saying that it is a pleasure both for the population and those who use these roads daily and for society, for the rest – because transit traffic is very high – that the government is now taking action to renovate these roads. The E16 through Valdres is the safest winter road between East and West, but the road is narrow and exposed to race on many of the routes. NTP for 2010-2019 provides a promise to ensure this important road between Oslo and Bergen. The government will spend 800 million dollars. kr on the southern route of E16 in Uppland, on the route Fønhus-Bagn-Bjørgo. This includes measures to ensure the road to race. It is said that for the people of Valdres this is of great importance. There will be safer and faster access to work, school and leisure activities. Good roads are better for business, and an important part of the business life in Valdres is travel. The government proposes to spend a total of DKK 1.7 billion on the distance north of Oppland, i.e. From Eye to Borlough over Mount File. It's this mountain crossing that makes this the safest and best winter road between Oslo and Bergen. So a little bit about E6. On the route Biri-Otta there are very many serious accidents. In fact, from 1994 to 2008, there have been 74 deaths on this route. Prosperity is poor due to high traffic and reduced speed on long distances. People are plagued by noise, etc. E6 Biri-Otta is part of the Oslo-Trondheim tribal route, which is part of the main north-south link in the country. A very large proportion of the country's export values are transported on this route. It's about to rust up. It is therefore gratifying to say that road safety is the top priority in the new plans. E6 Otta–Biri shall be designed in such a way that meeting accidents and other serious accidents cannot occur: pitfalls and passing-by areas shall be established. The road shall initially have levelled crossings in order to avoid road-hazardous situations during off-road and on-road use. The new road system shall reduce noise and pollution for those living along the current E6. The new road will therefore be bypassed, noise protection will be built, etc. This is a good entry for Uppland.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1935	I have so much respect for the thousands of trailer drivers who have their daily work on Norwegian roads. I would therefore like to make a recommendation to the State Road Administration and the Council of State to ensure that the rest areas and toilets along the roads are kept clean and proper. We owe it to all the drivers who make an honest effort in our society. I will also bring forward the taxi industry as an important complement to public transport. Drossens have a particularly important role to play in health transport, TT travel and in connecting and ordering traffic to and from public transport in the districts. I would like to highlight the importance of taxis being involved in the overall assessment of the development project for public transport in the districts. The dross account for a large part of the school-children’s drive in District Norway. A survey shows that 138 000 children in primary school have school kisses. 12,000 of these children have to be on the bus every day. When we know that 7,000 children are injured on the bus, so that they have to be home from school, it is now necessary to introduce seat belts for schoolchildren in school kissing. I know that the Minister of Transport is concerned with road safety, not least for our children, so I expect the Council of State to assess this issue. I would like to stress that children are road users with very special needs. Children have problems looking over hedges, parked cars and other obstacles to visibility, and they may be difficult to discover for other road users. Safe Traffic is making a great effort to provide children with driving skills. It is important for children to learn how to use their environment actively. It is therefore necessary to develop pedestrian and cycle routes so that both children and the elderly can experience safety in the local environment. We in the red-green fraction did not find it necessary to create the transport plan of your own children. We believe that children are part of the usual pulsating life, and they're to be integrated into everything we do, in everything we think, all the time, everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1950	For Troms and for North Norway is today a brand day. Never in North Norway have we been given as much priority in building the country as we are today. For us in North Norway, the big investment in a part of the country that has been down priorities in road budgets for far too many years means that we get a faith and an optimism for the future. The new initiative will bind the regions together. We'll get traffic-safe roads. Fishing ports will be set up. We get racial protection, and we'll get a lot more paths, which is a huge need. It has an enormous impact on business, and on living and living in the country. Hurtigruten, riksvej nr. 1 the world's most beautiful journey, is incredibly important for freight transport and commercial transport, for travellers and for tourists in North Norway, and it is very necessary and good that the Stortinget today says that it is the task of the state to ensure a good funding of the Hurtigruten. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in 2008 said that the growth of climate emissions must be reversed by 2015, and 85 pst must be cut. globally by 2050. The richest countries must go ahead. In 2009, the Central Statistical Agency said that road traffic climate emissions have increased by 33 pst. from 1990 to 2007. There is a clear signal in the Stortinget today from the red-green parties for an investigation into the Tromsbanen – an investigation that will show that it is necessary and necessary to get the Tromsbanen under way quickly. Tromsø County Municipality has already set aside 8.5 million. kr, and business and large parts of the country want to do so. It's no longer utopian with a drum track. It's time for the Tromsban. Norway and the world are facing a climate crisis that threatens our existence. The threat of global warming requires offensive policy responses, not least for transport areas where the growth of climate emissions is completely out of control. Trains, based on electric operation, are energy efficient and do not emit greenhouse gases. This is why more and more countries are spending considerable resources building environmentally friendly and attractive rail networks. Climate-friendly and efficient transport is building the country for the next 100 years. A new orbit is not a distant utopia, but a necessary part of creating green social development. On the other side of the border, Sweden set several tens of billions on the construction of a new railway northwards to Umeå and Luleå. The tram can become a Norwegian subway linking regions and communities, where, without contributing to global warming, we can commute comfortably to work, education or visit cultural services in the neighbouring municipality. It's time to jump for the Swedes. The tram will transfer thousands of vehicle trains from unsafe roads to environmentally friendly tracks. A new rail northwards will speed up the Northern Region policy, which is the Government's main foreign policy initiative. I look forward to the investigation and to the construction of the Troms Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1967	Today, the red-green politicians have almost no choice but to tell us what a happy day this is for Vei-Norway from north to south. And of course, it's a lot to enjoy. For each spade inserted in the ground, for each kilometre of road laid and for each line drawn for the train, there is reason to rejoice. But I notice that there is one point that the red-green politicians are not happy about, and that is the priority list that the Oslopack 3 Steering Group presented yesterday. On the contrary, it almost seems as if there has been some panic in the Workers' Party and SV over the fact that the steering group, with the Chairman of the Right Party in Akershus, Nils Aage Igstad, has presented a priority list of the Kolsåsbanen from Bekkestua to Kolsås, E18 West Corridor, E16 Sandvika, E6 Manglerudtunnel and Rv. 22 Footpath. Marianne Aasen from Akershus Arbeiderparti speaks of the fact that now it is important to ensure the anchoring of Oslopak 3. There are hardly any packages that are as well anchored, and that have had as broad support as this one. There is a proposal in the Chamber today, which is to be put up for voting, which is just to open doors, where the steering group is to be instructed to deal with the decision-making process. The management group of Oslopackak 3 is not the challenge in relation to the consensus that exists. It is the councillor of Navarsete and the government that is sitting there and that has been trying for many years to put chains in the wheels to realize, among other things. West corridor E18 westward. It is the red-green government that is the challenge when imposing on the steering group that over-costs related to government projects should be consumed by tolls that should have gone to locally adopted and priority projects. It's the red-green government, which is constantly trying to charge a rush-time charge, which is the problem for Oslopackak 3. The challenge is to postpone the realisation of the E18 until 2014–2019. When we are elected from Akershus, our voters in our eyes – voters who every day pay tolls, who are going to go to one concrete road – we cannot of course say that they have to wait six, seven, eight years before the spade is stabbed in the ground. On the contrary, we should be glad that we now have a priority list, which means that Oslopackak 3 will be realised, because of the consensus of the population and the parties behind Oslopackak 3. I also know from experience that you can't lean back and stay calm until the spade is stabbed in the ground, and we still believe that the E18 should be realized from 2012. It'll continue to fight for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1974	In its alternative transport plan, the right-hand side shows that we will take on new instruments – this in order to ensure Norway a more modern and safer transport sector more quickly. Individuals should have the freedom to live and work where they wish. Then we politicians must make sure that both people and goods arrive faster, while at the same time making sure that the individual comes home safely! As a nutritionist from More and Romesdal, I am very pleased that the Right in the Transport Plan has chosen to give priority to the business community of More and Romesdal. On the right, they point out that the E136 Ålesund – Uppland border export route is to be financed as a OPS project, which means the construction of long, continuous sections, which can be completed much faster than the one provided by the Government. It will also provide a much safer way for those who live along the road. Holiday cruises on the country’s most important ‘export route’ are currently a major disadvantage for rational logistics. It is also very distorting for Norwegian business. Therefore, the Free Coastal Route, E39, will have an enormous impact on industry along the coast. The right will give priority to the ferry-free coastal route, including the Moor axis in More and Romesdal, very high in the next planning period. In order to get started quickly — and quickly — the Right will also use OPS project funding here, by promoting appropriate single sections during the 2010–2019 planning period. In order to obtain more of the goods transport from road to rail and sea, the Right will also speed up the start-up of the City Ship Tunnel. The right is very disappointed with the Government, which has chosen to postpone the design of the ship's tunnel until the end of the planning period. I record that the representative Jenny Klinge of the Senterpartiet stated the following in Romsdals Budstikke on 3 June: ‘We in the Centre Party believe it is time to start building it earlier in the period, and will work for it.’ I hereby invite the representative Klinge and the rest of the Central Party to vote with the Right and the Opposition, who asks the Government to design the City Ship Tunnel as early as 2010. Or is it just empty talking here as well? Does the Center Party take another 180 degrees around, as they did in the matter of volunteerism? Word and action should be linked! There are many important projects on RV. 70 between Oppdal and Kristiansund, within the scope of the proposal for NTP for 2010–2019, inter alia: may be referred to as the highly rasable Racial Breeding Beach. On the right, all these projects will be provided as a OPS project, while we propose to include the completion of the Meisingset-Tingvoll route in the first part of the planning period. Bad roads do not only weaken the competitiveness of business. They also take daily life. Priority will be given to building safe roads so that we can all get there faster and safer home!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e1996	The railway operation in NTP is formidable and it is joyous and exciting to see the attention given to the railway as a means of transport now. High-speed trains are being launched as the future solution of all the lots, except for the Progress Party. This gives promises of an offensive railway operation in the future as well. As far as Bergensbanen is concerned, the construction of the Ringeriksbanen is gradually a safe replication of the transport policy. This will reduce the travel time between Oslo and all destinations west of Hønefoss by one hour. In Bergen, we believe there are many good arguments for starting construction of the Ringeriks railway in the first part of the period. In view of the project's history, it should have been completed now. The project is over-mature, but it's good after all, and we're glad that there's now money in the second part of the period, so that the project will actually be realized. Bergen–Oslo is one of Europe’s most trafficked air services, and there is enormous environmental potential in moving traffic from plane to runway on this route. Reduction in travel time, more frequent departures, more comfort and working opportunities on the train will make the train competitive. The measures implemented on Bergensbanen and Vosebanen during this NTP period will help to strengthen the railway on a very important route, in terms of both passengers and freight traffic. It is now being built in Bergen. It's a realization of an old vision of a whole new public transport system for the city. In the Bergen programme, we have gathered a broad political majority for the development of a decent road network around Bergen, combined with the construction of the urban railway. It is extremely important that the Bergen programme be continued, and that the city track be built – first to Flesland, next to the other parts of Bergen and, in the long term, to Sotra and Knarvik on Lindås. After moving other national roads to the county municipality, it is primarily the transfers in the municipal bill that are important for our ability to finance this in combination with forms of road transport charges. All the parties in Bergen's city government living in the real world have recognised that toll financing is necessary in order to generate large-scale transportation projects. We are pleased that this has the attention of the Government and the Committee on Transport, but I am of the opinion that without a clearer and stronger state commitment urban railway construction will go too slow in relation to the need. The special problems of metropolitan cities are described in detail in both the NTP and the Committee settings. The solutions lie in both car traffic reduction measures and increased public transport. If we are to do this, our local politicians must be farsighted and bold and have the courage to go for toll financing. No one likes to pay tolls, but we all know that it needs to be done to realize projects. However, as important as bold local politicians, it is clear from the state that local plans, decisions and funding will be followed up by state contributions. One can't do without the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2009	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is immediately over, and the President proposes that negotiations be interrupted and continued at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2065	It is not a secret that many people use this opportunity to health home – to mention the projects that we know are particularly important in our homes. I will do the same in this post, but I will limit myself to three projects. In More and Romesdal, there are three projects that, for different reasons, are of great importance. First, I want to name Tresfjordbrua and the tunnel between the Moon valley and the Wåge on the E136, which we can see gathering as one big project. The road standard in and around Tresfjorden is hopeless, and there have been many serious accidents on the route. Tresfjordbrua will be a great step forward. The new tunnel will release a raspberry, narrow and winding road along the mountain side, where it is known as a lucky hit every time two trailers meet and the one does not end up on the sea. Many years of targeted fighting for this bridge and tunnel project has been the crown of luck, and there is reason to congratulate the champions for a great day. Then there's another tribal road in the county that has two special challenges, and that's rv. 70. Most of them have been razed on the Uppölstranda in August last year, when a man was badly injured. This distance is defined as the deciduous most racially dangerous in Central Norway. The racet clearly puts on the agenda the need to put in place a tunnel solution here. The jubilee was therefore great when the government launched the project with 400 million. NOK in the first part of the plan period and the rest, 200 million. kr, next. This was and is one saying. But then there's still new rock jumping, and late last week a new breed of massive blocks. Therefore, I think you need to consider how to ensure that the tunnel work can be started as soon as the planning is completed, either by opening an advance or by making sure that all of the government's permissions are in place during the first part of the planning period. Finally, the route between Tingvoll and Meisingset, which has fallen into many stages before, and which was not directly mentioned in the national transport plan for the next period. This is precisely why I am pleased with the plural comment that points to the particularly poor standard that is on this par, and which further refers to the action plan for the State Road Administration. The floor receives a signal that the parcel can and should be involved from 2014. Today I am proud to sit on the Transport and Communications Committee, and I am pleased with the great lift that comes to transportation both in our county and in all other parts of the country for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2082	I noticed that the representative Alf Ivar Samuelsen was delighted that all the arrows are now pointing up to North Norway. I'm happy about that too. But I would also like to remind you that we have now had four years with the red-green government, we have had the bet of the times on transportation, and at the same time the reality is that the arrows throughout the period have pointed downwards for the three Northern Norwegian states. That is why, in my opinion, there is now every reason to enjoy what is happening in relation to the treatment of the national transport plan, and it is imperative that North Norway receives its fair share of the means of transport. I'm just going to be brief in some projects where the Christian People's Party and other parts of or the whole opposition are involved in bets in North Norway. First of all, I would like to point to the Nordic Railway, which is now being seen to be automated in the near future. So it turned out that a system of automation, Merkur, has been chosen, which unfortunately is not approved by the supervision, and we end up in a situation where the Nordlandsbane is set back many years. In addition, the Minister has taken 100 million. kr from the Nordlandsbanen and moves to the general purchase of equipment for the railway in total. It is strongly opposed to the Christian People's Party. In our proposal for a revised national budget, we bring back that money. Let's add up to $25 million. kr and will use the means for crossing tracks – when we do not get the automation we should get. Then I would also like to point out a matter that has been going on for a while, namely the helicopter route to the outside Helgeland, which the minister has said is that the government won't do anything about, because someone thinks it's too expensive. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have a common note and proposals for decisions, asking that we get an investigation on the helicopter route in 2010 to get it realized. I mention the Birkøy connection. There the committee is assembled, and I hope now that the Bjarkøy connection can get up, and that we get a municipal merger on the purchase. So just short of the ferry settlement in Westfjord. The Minister has promised two gas ferries. We are pleased about that and hope they will come in 2012. But I think there is a need for an impact assessment regarding the totality of ferry connections in the fjord, and the Right, Christian People's Party and Left ask that it be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2095	It is very important that the transport system is universally designed, as is the case with this speaker. Infrastructure must be designed and organised in such a way as to ensure the best possible mobility for all. For the Christian People's Party, the principle of universal design means that society facilitates everyone, not just for most. When new solutions and infrastructure are planned, there shall be a single main solution organised for all. We can't have one main solution that suits most people, and then add special solutions for groups with special needs. Disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility have the right to participate in society on an equal footing with other citizens. Too many today face obstacles in the form of poor organisation, physical barriers and man-made barriers. Unfortunately, the transport sector has major challenges in this area. For the Christian People's Party counts universal design and organization for all more than economic reasons and market requirements. Disabled passengers must be guaranteed access to assistance during the journey, especially at nodal points when moving on with another means of transport. Information must be provided in a format that is readable to all, and control panels must be capable of being used by all. Unfortunately, the big community is failing in these areas. The NSB has a significant responsibility for creating universally designed solutions. Therefore, the Government of the purchase agreement with the NSB should make more specific availability requirements. The purchase of new trains and the upgrading of existing materials must be subject to requirements. Both the Ministry and the NSB have a responsibility to make new and existing material available to disabled people. It is precisely when public contracts are to be concluded that concrete and obligatory requirements for better accessibility for people with disabilities can and must be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2108	The President of Oslopakt 3, Truls Wickholm, made a statement about it earlier today, so I will not repeat it. However, I have been following this package for several years, and looked closely at the good, but also the demanding work that has been done locally. I've seen how parties have had to take and give. Much has been painful, but it testifies to the fact that almost everyone, politically, in Oslo and Akershus, sees that it is necessary to stay together to achieve something and progress for the environment, the promotion and important collective projects in Norway's most populous territory. Now I hope no one can be tempted to use the election campaign for short-term solutions that could be harmful in the long term. So the representative, Mr Wickholm, promoted a proposal on behalf of the government parties. There are no problems for the Left to support, but what I would urge Wickholm to do is that he affects the Government to let the government take its share of the bill in the case of the Wolf Split – Sinsen. If there's something that can really go beyond public transport, which Wickholm was occupied with in his post, it's that the state doesn't take its share of responsibility. I would also encourage the representative of Wickholm to influence the government to transfer more of the rewards to just Oslo and Akershus, instead of to blame a travel agency from the Progress Party. He should rather praise that agency for his journey. It is not everyday to see people from the Progress Party go in so that tolls can be used for the operation of public transport. Finally, I want to add a little bit to the E18. The representative of Marianne Aasen spoke of the need for environmental tunnels in Asker and Sandvika. But the need is actually much bigger than that. I'm standing by that road every day, and I've been doing it for years, and now the collective field is blown up. We politicians have let the electric cars drive there, and I think that's right. But there is evidence that roads are also needed in cities, precisely because we want a zero-emission vehicle, and then we also have to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2119	For fun, I Googled the ‘National Transport Plan 2009’ and got almost 100,000 hits. It shows some of the enormous attention this case actually has. The oil wealth gives us incomes and opportunities other countries envy us. Nevertheless, we have come into a situation where many of our roads hold an unacceptable standard. Faster — safe home; right will invest significantly more than the Government of the National Transport Plan. It is necessary to take a larger shipper’s roof on the road, and the right considers that Norway has economic muscles to do so. Better and new roads, bridges and tunnels are essential for housing and for a profitable business in the north. If the Government is serious about its Northern Region Plan with a focus on business development and travel, this requires greater commitment to transport in the region. It's e.g. Remarkably, the government parties will not even be involved in exploring the coastal road in Finnmark. Anyone who has driven the E6 northwards to the Kirkenes knows that the road varies from fantastic to catastrophic. From Bodø, where the train stops, there is still 1,330 km of road to Kirkenes, where the road is the only alternative. Together with E6, the E10 and E8 connections to Sweden and Finland are the largest in the north. It's time for these roads to have a total standard that makes it both faster and safer to come up with. Therefore, the right-hand proposal to use OPS in order to speed up road work should also have been supported by Government Parties. Tromsø city is growing rapidly with the transport challenges it poses. Road systems in and around the city must be further developed and the remaining parts of E8 completed. For Harstad, the E10 parent road status is important for the urban port development. New Lofast has marked a road revolution in the most popular region in North Norway. The traffic on the road just increases, and the rest of the E10 has to get up to the same standard as the New Lofast. The stretch from Tjeldsund bridge to Gullesfjord is a bottleneck that requires prompt repair. Hålogalandsbrua at Narvik has been designated as one of the most socio-economically profitable projects in the transport plan. Narvik is a very important good hub. Brua will provide shorter roads, good environmental benefits and replace a racial and accident-affected road billing. It is therefore very important that this project can be implemented quickly. The fast route is indispensable as a freight transport operator for many coastal communities. Travel life product Hurtigruta is one of Norway's leading brands. The fast route is undoubtedly at a very critical stage, and therefore the government's move with new tendering conditions is regrettable. The company needs a rapid clarification of future framework conditions. Today, a milestone for the Bjarkøy compound is when an overall committee points out that increased use of holiday-settlement funds could make the project profitable. Many would then be able to arrange for three islands to be connected with the tunnels and the municipal merger with Harstad to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2140	It's interesting to listen to a rich debate on culture. The debate shows an opposition that cracks in all directions. When the existing national transport plan was established, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party built a bridge and gathered around priorities and ambitions that one should have implemented. And they've brought us through. If, after the fall of the autumn, another government is based on some constellation of the opposition party, no one can today get an idea of what kind of transport policy we have. The party of progress is in a class of its own, with money for everything and bets peculiar to the people's, at least not in the West and in North Norway. The other batches make payments and OPS. Greece did not respond to the size of the 23 projects in the post-2020 government budget. But an estimate that's made shows that it'll be around $8 to $10 billion per. years when the projects are completed around 2020 – at the time when the Right Party Leader, Solberg, said it is starting to tighten up. It is when no action room is available. It's now we have room for action, and then it's incomprehensible that a push payment for these road projects into a future where we know that there are other challenges that become clear. Several claim that costs in the transport sector have increased by 40 pst. It is not correct. What is right is that the renewal of the functional contracts that came after the separation of Mesta and the suspension of operations and maintenance have shown a cost increase of 40-50 pst. You will be asked how much money is left of the large savings that the Tendand Left pointed to. They probably disappear in the big glimmer that comes when competition is not so big, and one is supposed to renew the functional contracts – unfortunately. ‘Yes, they have money, but that’s all they have,’ said Greece in their contribution. It's also wrong. We have thousands of skilled professionals that we play with, and that we talk about with respect, who stand on every single day to convert all the extra funds that we add into new projects all around the country. When the representative Gundersen compares the purchase of a dwelling by OPS and by individuals, there is a big difference. While we, as individuals, usually have a relatively slumped wallet, there is a well-stocked state fund, good government finances, which means that there is no need to build roads on a payoff.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2153	A claim has been made several times today in this room that high-speed trains are environmentally friendly. Then I have to say that a very narrow interpretation of the concept of the environment is put on the table. So here, in theory, you have to build a line between Oslo and Trondheim – a line that needs to be protected by high fences and a line that is going to be a place between 70 and 100 meters. If you hit a moose for 70 km an hour – the Dovreban is still missing – the worst consequences for the elk. Hitting a moose for 300 km an hour will have quite different consequences. This is going to be a huge environmental intervention, with high fences, large power lines and a very broad trajectory, which, unlike the railways in the rest of the country, cannot follow the natural changes in the terrain, but which must go straight ahead – an operation that is much easier to achieve in Europe than in Norway. This is going to be the biggest intervention of Norway's history in some pristine nature in municipalities that the train is going to mainly run through for 300 km per hour. The argument for this gigantic intervention is climate. Emissions from Norwegian air traffic are declining from year to year. In 2020, Norwegian airlines expect emissions from air traffic to have decreased by 20 pst, despite a traffic increase of 4-5 pst. By 2050 Norwegian air traffic will be climate neutral. At best – or at worst – the high-speed rail is completed in 2030. Then we get an investment of NOK 350 billion, which at best is marginally climate positive for 20 years – NOK 350 billion. Today Oslo and Trondheim are bound together by infrastructure which together is 200 meters wide and two times 4 km long. 4 km long. It's called airfields. They work perfectly well. These airports do not depend on a single tax credit. This should bring with it to the right. We don't depend on a single tax dollars to connect these two cities. To believe that high-speed trains can become competitive, socio-economic or business-economic, against air traffic is absurd. When this assumption is based on investigations by people who have everything to gain from using 350 billion of mine and your tax dollars to build this, it just makes the matter even more hopeless. If you want to reduce the air traffic you want by 90 to 95 pst, you want to say goodbye to the Værnes airport, which today serves 300,000 people in Central Norway directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2162	This government has truly confirmed that the national transport plan is a value document. Road projects have been completed according to plans and the old national transport plan has been over-filled. I would like to use the entrance to my own town, Kragerø, as an example of it. The representatives of the Workers' Party in Telemark have expressed great dissatisfaction in many transport debates because we have felt that we have not been able to take advantage of important transport solutions in our country. In the national transport plan, we have now received evidence that we have really been right, and that our projects have been well justified. We have now had a good breakthrough in most of the telemarket cases – finally. I think we owe the Government and the Council of State, and also our fraction on the Transport Committee, thank you very much. Telemark is the county that has been giving top priority to rail for many years. We're very proud of that. We have waited patiently and held on to the fact that we must have an Eidanger tunnel, as it is called in the local language. It is not just a telecommunications project but a national railway project that is essential for the future of the railway in this part of the country and a prerequisite for the future interconnection of the South and Westfold railways. Now we finally think we'll see the light in this tunnel. We've noticed the last few days' drag help – if I can use that word – from the Railway Agency, which has shown great interest in this route. With regard to E18 through Bamble, it has come on the political agenda. It is now stated in the setting that the planning of this route should be speeded up. We're just happy for that. I refuse to let myself go down into the political plight valley together with the representative Bård Hoksrud in that matter. It's also a national project. It's a stretch on which there's a lot of traffic, which has a lot of accidents and ugly deaths. My party trap from Telemark, Oppebøen Hansen, has mentioned the tunnel between Århus and Gvammen in a previous post. He has also mentioned the Haukeli tunnels. There are also issues that confirm that we have had an impact in the Government for our projects, which are part of what connects city and country together also in Telemark. Then I would like to refer to page 70 of the vote and thank our members of the Transport Committee. It is a very important clarification they have made regarding the ferry routes on Randsfjorden and in the Kragerø archipelago.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2177	It has been interesting to follow the debate here and listen to the parties that will go to the elections to cast a red-green government. It must be incredibly sure that they will agree on a transport policy. I have to say that they have a good foundation for it when they have managed to put forward two different national transport plans and they are not even in government together. It's a good starting point for the voters to see that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not even working together when they're in opposition. We, the red-green parties, have at least managed to put forward a national transport plan together. The reason I took the floor was the climate agreement. I have the impression that all the parties involved in the climate agreement are quite proud of it. In the climate agreement, we double the reward scheme. There we say that the doubling we've been given should be reserved for the cities that enter into binding, long-term agreements on traffic reduction measures. So the representative from Dørum and the representative from Tenden come up here and they're disappointed that Oslo doesn't get any of this money. But it is actually not so strange, because the City Council for the Environment and Transport of Oslo, Mr. Kallmyr, has stated that he does not want to introduce traffic reduction measures. He doesn't think that's right. But both the representative Tenden and the representative Dørum said in their speeches that traffic reduction measures, land-use planning and parking restrictions were important. Is it that way to understand that as long as the Left says it's okay, one should somehow refrain from introducing the measures that the whole Biggest minus Progress Party agrees would be the basis for getting more money into the climate deal? As long as Goran Kalldmyr sits as city councillor in Oslo, Oslo only competes for half the pot of money. This has absolutely nothing to do with politics. Right-wing Kristiansand has been willing to enter into such an agreement, being creative, trying to find solutions that will give them more money – and they have received it, because they follow up the climate agreement. Oslo does not follow up on the climate agreement. The left says that they're one of the biggest proponents and are proud of the climate agreement. But just because the Left says it, is Oslo going to have to get more money – despite not having followed the main criteria, namely to conclude binding, long-term agreements on traffic reduction measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2184	There are few areas where it has our laws and laws more than when it applies to the area of trade. Rarely is the money looser than when Stortinget treats NTP. Both in 1997 and 2001, the opposition promised billion-dollar rises in traffic in the treatment of NTP. Both times there was a government change only months later, and the opposition took over government offices. But instead of the permits for transportation going up, they went down. Also in 2005, the opposition — at the time just another opposition — promised more money for transportation. In 2005, there was a change in government, but this time the rewards actually went up and not down, and for the first time, we can say that NTP has been followed up during the period. He's actually overcrowded. That is why today's government is historic. She's the first person to keep the promises of society. The NTP for the next period is also historical. Never before has it been suggested that there should be a similar lift in the laws of conduct. Once again, the opposition is trying to do the old trick with more money. But where is the trust? History has shown that promises are of little value when they are not implemented. Why should we today, for example? rely on the promises of the Right when history has shown that when they come into a situation where they have the ability to implement the promises, there is no culture that is given priority? Today’s long list of speakers shows that trafficking is important for all who live in this long - range country. Either we are going to work, school or visit friends and acquaintances, we are dependent on good and decent transport solutions. Next year, the airport celebrates its 25th anniversary. As a commuter between Stord and Oslo for 20 years, I have seen what this airport has meant. Especially for the local industry, which is highly exportable, it has been important to provide air services. The local willingness to set up the airport has been enormous, and both the local business community and the municipality have gone a long way to secure operations at the airport. All other comparable airports in Norway are state doctors. I'm very pleased that the state is now taking responsibility for the airport at Stord. Even if it happens through a crash and not by taking over the operation, the most important thing for users is that the airport is kept in operation. With an annual operating surplus, the airport at Stord ensures further operations, while at the same time exploiting the local potential for inexpensive and efficient operation. New road past Röldal on E134 is not just an important road project. A new path will reduce the runtime by 25 minutes, and it will reduce the rise and fall, thereby reducing the fuel consumption and thus releasing CO2 and NOx. It is important that this important environmental project be launched as soon as possible. Everyone who's concerned about transportation has reason to rejoice today, but I'm also worried: if there's a change of government, nobody knows what kind of policy we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2204	Road, track and ports have been neglected under changing governments. This government started its spin-off operation after the 2005 elections, and in order to meet the 2006-2009 planning framework, the red-green government has achieved far better results than previous governments; the action space in budgetary policy has been roughly the same under this government as under Bondevik II. Under this government, including the 2009 budget, about DKK 10.6 billion has been allocated to transport than under the previous government. The central party sees the shift in transport policy, where increased resources have been allocated to operations, maintenance and investment, as large. Nevertheless, much remains to be done. Yes, the maintenance lag has increased steadily, including on national and county roads in my country – i.e. lower road accessibility for all traffic. That's why NTP is positive. There is a need for effort, and it is necessary to consider in the future whether NTP should not become binding as a minimum, in order to allow it to enter into an impact-adjusted budget for governments. The economic situation makes it easier to secure such an investment. The Norwegian State is rich in contrast to the United States, Italy and the United Kingdom. We don't have to borrow money like them. The State need not lease roads through OPS. OPS is only expensive, but the financial industry that brokers and lends will serve more. The main point of the right must be to go ahead and put the bill in front of you – pure privatisation ideology, a loss-making society economy. I am glad that the Government is going for project finance, continuous planning and investment in longer distances. Yes, the government goes further in the positive direction. In order to achieve a more consistent and higher standard, longer distances on large sections of the low-traffic national road network should be considered in the context of planning and implementation of improvements. These improvements are important to see in the context of operation and maintenance. The Government considers that there is a need to move forward with new forms of contract combining operation, maintenance and development of the road standard. It is a type of contract which implies long-termity both for contract partners and for local communities. Yes, it is demanding to develop such forms of contract, especially because it does not have to be such that it can only be carried out by the major contractors. It gives too little competition. This work has the full support of the Centre Party and will completely eliminate all arguments for the Right Flagship, namely OPS, which I would call poorer financing as an alternative to a rich state. As a representative of the Buskerud Center Party, I am working systematically to shrink the distances in long-distance Norway. Supply-driven broadband fibre development, high level of investment in the Oslo area, high-time bombing charges to Oslo and road investment across the country, where not only are the cost-benefit assessments of the Progress Party, but the perspective of ‘building Norway’ is also central. There is a lot of positive for Buskerud in the setting. All of the county's top priorities have been included in the ten-year period, and funding for the Ringerix Railway and Railway Platforms hopes that we can get further reinforcements, so that it too can get even more involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2221	It was interesting to hear the previous talk about poor people's financing. I guess I'll say that tolls are in about the same category, at least if you see what it costs, and how much extra you have to pay with tolls. We know that the representative Lundtigen has voted against OPS in fines and buckets in this room only during this period – together with the representative Irene Johansen, who was occupied by exactly the same thing, that OPS is an expensive way of financing. I don't think exactly that tolls are any better way to finance. I think that everyone who pays tolls every day experiences that they pay a lot more than what they actually get back. The representative, Gunn Olsen, was concerned that the NTP was being met and referred to the entrance route to Kragerø. Now it is that the road to Kragerø should have been built too many, many years ago – long before this national transport plan. At least there is no doubt that much of the money has gone from the frames to the Telemark County Municipality, and it has gone at the expense of other national roads. But of course it's good that the road is in place. So I would have liked to have said that I am very happy that you have now made a note about the two ferry connections that are not allowed to be part of the national ferry service, or that are not part of the other national ferry service that is to be transferred to the county municipalities, but unfortunately we have experienced that these two ferry connections have been within notes earlier – and majority comments – without it having been followed up. So I'm actually looking forward to the continuation, and I expect it to now be followed up. For the representative, Gunn Olsen, together with his other colleagues on the telemarket bench, said in the past that they would actually support a proposal to provide full funding and for these ferry routes to enter the other national road link. Then I hear that the representative from the Workers' Party boasts violently of the E18 through Telemark. I don't think it's that much to brag about when you first go out and say that there's going to be 500 million states in the first part of the plan, and then it turns out this isn't right. Then you're going to give 400 million to the state in the final period, and then you're going to be allowed to take tolls in the first period, with 500 million tolls. kr. That means it's 900 million. NOK to finance a path that costs NOK 3 billion to finance. This means that the road Langangen-Dørdal will not be completed during the current national transport planning period. This is really just to keep the voters fooled — not least those who are going on the road — if there is no follow-up with additional appropriations. So far there is nothing in this submitted to the national transport plan. Then I am glad that the Aarhus-Gvammen at E134 will be in place. That's great. But I want to say that I think it's a little sad – and I've heard a lot of people talk about the importance of road safety – that you have Rv. 36, which goes through Telemark, where there is one personal injury accident every week. So it's not set of a single cent to do anything with this path. I think it is shameful when you hear the debate and hear many talk about the importance of road safety. Here's a road where you could really have done something about road safety if you wanted to. If the majority wanted to, you could give money, but you don't want to do that, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2234	Today we are witnessing a historic national transport plan. He also shows a historic bet on the coast, with an increase in the frame of nearly 80 pst. The next ten years. For me, as a man of the coast, it's nice to read about the tribal leadership, which goes from the Churches to the Swedish border, and about the tribal ports that are now to be increased from ten central ports to 31 tribal ports. We also know that all of these tribal ports will be connected to one tribal road. In addition, we know that it is planned to upgrade the road network, north-south, along the coast. This, together with the parent road links, will ensure a safe way for business to get to the main network port and to the main route, with goods in and out. Road-to-sea goods are now much more likely to become a reality. We must never forget that there are possibilities on the coast. More and Romsdal came out well in relation to the tribal roads. In this context, I would like to mention Tresfjordbrua–Wågettunnel and racial protection on the Uppölstrand. Both of these projects are within the first part of the planning period. The Tresfjordbrua–Wågettunnel project will eliminate 20 km by road, where we have had many, many fatal accidents until now. The project will also provide faster and cheaper transport for the large business community in the north-west, and this project has elements that can be expected in relation to a good tribal road. Here's racial protection, we have curtailment, here's traffic security, and not least this is an environmental project. Racial protection of the Breeding Beach will provide a safe way to work and school for 2,000 people. I will end by saying that for all those who have been on these projects over time, this is a historic day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2245	This has been a long and important debate on a comprehensive and important plan. In one of his previous posts, Mr. Bård Hoksrud of the Progress Party took a trip to Albania to find support for his policy. I'd rather face challenges and opportunities between our neighboring countries. But first it is in place to give praise to the Minister of Transport and the Government for the best national transport plan of the time. In the national transport plans in Norway and Sweden, the infrastructure of border regions is generally considered to be borderline. However, this can be infrastructure through areas which together have good cross-border communication on the Norwegian and Swedish sides, and which together have large population concentrations. In the interior of Scandinavia, with large parts of Hedmark, Akershus, Värmland and Dalarna, it lives approx. One million people. The intersection of these areas lies in Kongswinger and is called the Scandinavia Cross. The crossing unites two north-south connections on the Norwegian and Swedish sides. In the north direction, the link goes towards the central and northern Sweden, and southwards from Karlstad the link goes together through Sweden towards Gothenburg, Malmö, Øresund and the continent. The fastest route from Oslo and Gardermoen to Stockholm is also through Kongsvinger – east-west axis, Bergen-Gardermoen – Gävle the same. Both Rv. So 2 and the Kongswingerban are going through this. Rv. 2 is Norway’s main intermediate link after E6 over Svinesund. It is important that this particular link becomes part of the work of the majority of the Committee, all of whom are not members of the Progress Party, pointed out in their comments. The Commentary asks: ‘The Government to follow up Nordic cooperation on the development of rail and climate-friendly transport solutions across countries’. Nordic cooperation can be given a boost when it is seriously put on the agenda. A coordinated transport network towards Sweden and the continent could be achieved. It will relieve the Oslo area, provide environmental benefits and growth incentives for the whole of the country. All of this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2259	All first I have a desire to take us four years back in time. In 2005, the Finnish Labour Party went to elections with the motto: ‘There will be light in the house.’ It has never been as dark on the Finnish coast as it is today. It's sad. Why is it dark on the Finnland coast? One of the main reasons is that we lack efficient infrastructure, and especially the road. It is not possible to deal with a road system in Finnmark where you have to drive 18, 20 and 30 miles to get out with goods and to transport your own population. If you live in Vardø and want to go to Båtsfjord, you have to sit in the car and drive almost 30 miles. But if you want to figure out and build a coastal road, the distance isn't more than 30 kilometers. This is why the Advance Party wants to set up a coastal road in Finnmark. This will strengthen the needs of the coastal economy for both fisheries and, in particular, the industry that is growing most, tourism. It is important to put in place a national road that links the coast in a much better way than it is today. What about E6? Today, we have a distance between Alta and Kirkenes, which is 570 kilometers. I very much agree with the representative Lundtigen who is concerned with shrinking distances. Well, if you want to shrink the distance of E6 in Finnmark, you can make a new trajectory for Lakselv from Alta. Then you've shrinked the distance by approx. Ninety kilometers. If you look further at a road alternative to the Tanadalen from the municipality of Porsanger, you've narrowed the distance by 80 kilometers. That is, you can shorten the distance between Alta and Kirkenes by a place between 170 and 180 kilometers. That's good shrinking. But is there any political will in this Chamber to put in place an effective structure to meet the needs of Finnmark? Unfortunately, it doesn't. I must say that I am very afraid that the lights we saw in the houses will disappear for many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2268	It is interesting to hear the Red-Green politicians talk about OPS funding as if this was just a funding model and not a deployment model. Not least, it is fascinating to listen to the representative Lundteg, who has obviously become a new-born tall-magic. He presents his theories. It's the theories in the Ministry of Finance that we all know so well, and that Lundtägen used to be a strong opponent of, but he's now become a newly saved adherent of. Let me take an example of that in connection with a road project that could be realized faster, cheaper and safer by using a OPS solution. Rogfast is a ferry-free connection between Stavanger and Bergen. It is perhaps one of the largest regional development projects that this country can launch in order to create a region of growth that has enough power in itself to be a counterpart and competitor to the capital area. If that project is started with an OPS solution, the project could be started earlier, so that you do not spend money building two new holiday rentals and investing in a new ferry, which you will have to use if you use the progress made by the government parties in the project. You'll get a continuous expansion. In particular, the challenge of such a large project will be put at risk on private hands rather than risking public hands. This in total shows that OPS is not just a method of financing, but a method of development that enables us to build the country in a faster and better way than the government parties provide. Another project mentioned in the proposal is the need for public transport in cities, i.e. urban development. I must say that I am disappointed that the representative of Hallgeir Langeland in the Committee has not been able to grasp the great idea of a state co-financing of a North-Jear Railway. The only parties left with this position are the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left. So without the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in power after the election, it won't be possible to realize an urban railway project on the North Jury, as the representative Langeland calls his own baby. His own party traps and co-operative partners in the county have failed him. His own governmentmates in Stortinget have failed him. He has to rely on a civil victory at the 2009 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2277	In the South-Trøndelag there was not exactly a storming jubilee that day the government presented its proposal for a national transport plan. Even the county rapporteur from the Workers' Party, Tore O. Sandvik, went out and did not hide his disappointment. His only comfort was that he should be consulted in Stortinget. He was supposed to go down to the Storting and to the Transport Committee. He was supposed to make sure that the government parties really needed to strengthen the road effort for the drones. They were so dissatisfied that they even completed the comments they made and presented to the Transport Committee. The drones had great expectations. Unfortunately, this is a day of disappointment for the South. Many thought that the government parties would follow the suggestions of their own, that they would follow up on what their own came and told about, the great disappointment that was now. However, the government parties have not mentioned either the salmon road, the Fosenvegen or the road from ‘fjord to mountain’ in a single word. E6 Trondheimswegen, which links Norway, has also not been committed by the majority to follow-up as requested by Trondheimswegen. But fortunately, the rapporteur has been heard. The right has taken him by the word. A great many of the recordings that Trendelag has put together, the Right has also regrouped in this setting. I'm glad that I represent a party that's capable of thinking new, a party that's not afraid to find new solutions for the good of the whole country. This is precisely why the Right Trondheimswegen, the gateway to Norway’s third largest city, which today has a very critical standard in terms of road safety, accessibility and business needs. The Trondheim to Uppland border is the main project for South-Trøndelag. The right priority is an overall expansion of the entire route. Unlike the Government, which climbs a little bit here and there, the Right will upgrade it by expanding all the way out one at a time. I am concerned that the government's failure to give priority to expanding this route will delay this project for many years to come. If you drive the coast to the South Trøndelag, you can see that there are great roads. The first route, beyond Hurricane, is the first OPS route in the country, which is highlighted as being particularly successful in the report. I like to call it the blue road, initiated, completed and completed under a Right-led government. The rest of the roads in the South Trendelag we call the red-green road. They're not upgraded, they're not completed, and there's a great disappointment in Trundellag that the government unfortunately doesn't deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2290	No one can doubt that the Swedish Government has helped to get Norwegian railways back on track, after many years of neglect under various governments. After we took over for the citizens, we have managed to triple the railway investments. We've also been given a quadrupling of the state's commitment to climate-friendly public transport in the Drammen and in the other major cities. I am comfortable with that my hometown, the Right-steered Drammen, follows up the environmental agreement and is one of the three best cities in terms of willingness to bet on the track, bus and bike – and reduce car traffic. SV and the Government have launched a railway operation of major importance for the region west of the metropolitan area. Over a few years, we're investing 20 billion kroner on the rail between Lysaker and Porsground. It means a radical improvement in train provision between Drammen and Oslo. This means that Grenland and the westfold cities are becoming ever closer to Buskerud. For a long time, the Ringeriksban has been a major concern for Buskerud SV – and for SV. The project is part of the Government Transport Plan of 577 million. kr towards the end of the decade. We're not quite satisfied with that. That's why we're working to speed up the project. We have received drag help from SV's national meeting. In the next period, SV will both step up the railway effort further and bring about new financial instruments, and we will use more oil money to expand the railway. That's how we're going to get the ring-icing train on the track. We need to look at the modernisation of other sections of our region. The Ringerix track alone will cut the journey time between Oslo and Bergen by almost 1 hour. It will also mean enormous improvements for the 50 000 inhabitants of the Ring Kingdom and Hallingdal. The Ringerix Railway will hijack about 1 million new train passengers, showing the calculations. Railways and public transport are much more than local policies. It is about creating efficient and forward-looking transport solutions across both municipalities and county borders. It's about connecting the parts of the country with fast and climate-friendly railways. Me and SV will therefore make it a major step forward for the Ringeriksbanen. Then we need a strong SV in a new red-green government. With government SV, people know what they get in the field of transport: a major effort on the railways and on the climate solutions of the future. It will serve our region, and it will serve the climate. The drama will be a hub for passenger traffic and a hub for freight transport in Norway, including: port development is combined with the development of modern train lines in all directions. Such a vision requires not only good solutions for the Drammen, but a functioning rail system across the region and nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2310	It has been so far interesting to hear the debate today. It is clear that it is the evening of the parties – we have heard a number of speeches from the government parties here. Listening to the debate also reminds me of Lillebjørn Nilsen's vision of 'Ola Tveiden'. I quote the beginning of the second last verse, which reads as follows: 'And soon the road will open in many big words, so we'll see a cookie that can cut off a string. And the fool is smiling – we've seen it so often before – and good luck saying thank you for the proud contractor." I'm afraid that's probably a number of contractors who won't be so proud of this national transport plan. I think the government's parties are engaged in many string cutter speeches – which are not going to happen, because this national transport plan is not a lift, it means a stagnation. If we look at the tranny roads, we see that even this so-called historic investment from the Government will mean that the road capital will deteriorate. Then the government parties boast, I notice, that they have prioritised the Værnes – Kvithammar in the North Trøndelag to become a motorway. It's 5 kilometers. Who's going to pay the bill? Well, it's the drivers, through tolls. It's the Norwegian drivers who get the bill. This is, at my discretion, in many ways like inviting you to a party, and then you ask the party participants to pay for both the food, the music and the entertainment at the party. I also register that in the case of Rv. 17, which has been an important matter in the Nord-Trøndelag, the Government does the same thing. It is to be transferred to the county councils without any money. In addition, it is the drivers who – also here through toll financing – have to pay the amount. As far as the railway is concerned, I am very disappointed with the sitting government and the government parties. I understand that the government is going in to spend 350 billion kroner on lightning trains south of Trondheim, which at least won't please the drones in particular. What we're concerned about is electrifying the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway, and investing in what has been the big project, and which the Workers' Party in our home country has promised in three election campaigns – one hour travel time between Trondheim and Steinkjær. It looks like you have to look a long way to go. It's still just electionlifts and party speeches in that area as well. I've registered the huge bet on the lightning train. If you are to follow the rhetoric that has been in the Chamber today and all the claims that have come from the government parties, you must say thank you and goodbye to the Værnes Airport that its time is over. I do not believe and hope, of course, but I note that it is only the Progress Party that is betting on roads, railways and airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2336	The debate today highlights the importance of the transport policy area. It is really so important that it is a little strange that this sector has been down-prioritized for so many years. I didn't mention a single concrete project in my physical article. However, the various projects around the different corridors have received a thorough report – from various representatives, of course, expecting representatives to be involved in the projects in their counties and in the local and regional environments around them. Elles said the previous speaker, Robert Eriksson, that the government party has engaged. Yes, I wonder who has engaged in this room. For what is stated is that the Advance Party will spend NOK 900 billion on the road – or perhaps NOK 1000 billion, which I referred to from the Official Journal of Drammen. But it remains to be seen what possibilities the Progress Party has to realize those promises. The only chance for the Progress Party to get into government position is in cooperation with the Right. But both Per-Kristian Foss and Jan Tore Sanner say that it is totally out of date to go into the Progress Party's economic policy. I have a newspaper clip from Dagblade here. Jan Tore Sanner says: "My message to Siv Jensen is ready. The right doesn't get involved in any economic experiments. People's security is the most important thing. We would like to cooperate with Frp, but economic policy should be governed by the Right." The right-hand side has a seat in the position, but then they never gave priority to transportation. In the opposition, they once again express that this is going to be a different turn. Everything shall be resolved through OPS. I record that they are out and ‘sel’ OPS project throughout the country. The right-hand side also has no answer to what bindings this can lead to. The councils were inside. Right has been challenged several times. So we're talking about 22 points in the option – 35 OPS project. An estimate – with the right saying that they will spend $57 billion a year – shows that it will quickly turn into $90 billion. Then it will quickly burden the Treasury with between 8 and 10 billion dollars a year. So the Right says that it's important that we invest now, because in a few years' time the big pension costs will come, and the oil revenue will go down. Why does the Right not suggest that the State should simply finance this by allowing money now, instead of pushing the expenditure to the Treasury 20 years in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2353	The left will build a forward-looking railway – also on Sørlande. Transport growth in and between the largest cities should take place via rail and public transport. In addition, the left has a target of doubling rail freight and passenger transport by 2020. Then we have to expand and upgrade the railway, with the creation of curves and double tracks for higher speed. The environment, zero emissions, mobility and value creation are important keywords here. To bet on trains is actually to take the climate challenges seriously. That is why I am very pleased that the left has a significant increase in the bet on trains. A train trip between Kristiansand and Oslo in three hours is our clear goal. It is a clear alternative to the flight and a much better environmental option. The left's option goes beyond the proposals of the government parties, namely to ensure a connection between the Westfold Railway and the Southern Railway, more specifically what we call the Border Railway, or, as someone calls it, the Southwest Railway. This is really forward-looking and can be on the trail of a high-speed path. It is also very important that the Southern Railway in South Rogaland, more specifically in the Drangsdalen, is once again on the agenda as a proposal this evening. It is strange that today's government is now signalling high-speed trains, while the train on this route today is running at a speed of 20 km/h! An up-to-date Safety and Tunnel Plan/Cost Report is now needed on the route and start-up must take place during this planning period. In addition, the Left has an important note on the E39 in West Agder, from the Search to the Rogaland border. It is very important to put in place impact calculations and impact assessment for a low-standard and significant increase in traffic. Goods from all over Western and South Norway are actually going to the continent from here. It's very important to put in place a plane for the whole line, not just a 3.5 km block extension. Finally, the left will greatly increase the reward system, precisely to promote better public transport in large cities, including: in Kristiansand. Providing economic rewards to cities, counties and transport centres that meet their environmental objectives will give freedom to use active means of transport by bus and rail, to the delight of many citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2368	The backbone, the Fjordvegen, or rv. 13, is one and the same way, and it's a very important way, an inner pathway. It's per cent. Today from Jären in the south, through Ryfylke and Hardanger and goes all the way to Förde in Sunnfjord. As everyone understands, this road connects municipalities and businesses in the interior. We know from reports that have been prepared that the improvement of this road section has an incredibly high value for the municipalities connected to the road. Of course, it means a lot to business, which in turn means a lot to housing, because precisely these elements, distance and security, will provide a better basis for commuting. If we think about it, we see that there are very many important food clusters in the interior of Rogaland, both in food, tourism and melting plants – to name a few. For all this industry, communication is important, not only to get closer to the markets, but also to communication between municipalities in the internal strata. Let me do an example. In the mechanical industry, which has specialised itself in the melting industry, it will be very important whether there are short distances between the works. Then it is a little unwise for the employees of these businesses to drive off to the coast before they have to swing back in order to get to the next melting plant. Of course, there are more examples. Safe and safe roads are the cloud for further development of this part of the country. The goods-producing business is located throughout the country, and then it says itself that this production generates transport. We know that the essential part of the transport is on the road, and about 70 pst. the freight volumes are carried less than three miles. This means that road is important and perhaps the only option in many places. At the same time, we see that the storage capacity of several businesses is soon non-existent. The warehouse is now inside some trailer on its way from one location to another. Road is important. The inner districts of Rogaland chose to support the gigantic projects in outer areas, because they are also important for inner strokes. The municipalities in the outer struts have supported the smaller projects in the inner struts, because they are important for the outer struts. I would particularly like to mention two projects in the interior that are important. One is brown over the Sandsfjord. This bridge will replace a ferry section between Sand and Ropeid and connect the municipalities of Suldal, Vindafjord and Sauda closer together. The second project is a tunnel between Sauda and Etne. It is no longer than 11 km, and almost does no interference in nature beyond the tunnel itself. Given that the two major road projects in Rogaland, Ryfast and Rogfast, can now become a reality over the next ten years, one will necessarily need to have a much greater focus on the road projects in the interior. Here it lies both a state and a county responsibility. I have heard that a good part of the debate today is about high-speed trains. Then I can tell you that the municipality of Sauda has already inserted the high-speed street into its spatial plan, and has the site of a station ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2385	In my little post I will now mention the E6 and the distance the Colomen in Stange in Hedmark to Lillehammer. Here is the proposed mid-driving work. This is a stretch that has had a lot of accidents, just like the rest of the E6, which is also called the Way of Death. Substations may be correct on some sections, but they also do so, for example: pass-bys become very difficult. This is less fortunate when e.g. an emergency exit vehicle shall be brought forward rapidly. The reason why I'm referring to the pitfalls is that if it gets there on that section, then you have to wait to make the road into a quadruple road. This is announced by Project Manager Stein Fyksen in the State Road Administration of Hamar Arbeiderblad on 9 June this year. He recommends mid-tracking because it is ‘an efficient and relatively inexpensive solution’. I certainly believe that the E6 must be a four-field road. This is the path that without comparison has most accidents and most deaths. It is very busy, and there is no indication that there will be fewer road users in the future. The area has a relatively high population density and a rich business. In addition, four-field roads are already being built in some places today, and it becomes less sensible and traffic-proof with a transition from four-field roads to two-field roads and back to four-field roads. It is also cheaper in the long term to complete the development in one phase. Expanding later costs more than if we do it now. This is estimated at an extra cost of NOK 1 billion – if we wait – plus planning costs and not least time extension. Therefore, as the Progress Party wishes, we should extend E6 to the four-field road on this route as well. This is also agreed by all the politicians in the municipalities concerned, with the rapporteurs at the head. They include: created a brochure about this, where the title is: E6 4-field motorway now, it must all understand!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2398	I have had several times the pleasure of attending and dealing with and not least following the debates related to the national transport plan. Today's debate has also been almost a walk in the NAF Road Book, from north to south, inward fjords and beyond the fjords, along the coast and inland. You hear an incredible amount of good wishes, and you hear about all the projects that we are now going to make happen. And that's very good. But after following almost the same debate up to several times in this Chamber, I ask myself the question: how do we manage to ask ourselves in such a situation that today’s road network in Norway is among the worst in Western Europe – yes, not just in Western Europe, but throughout Europe? Out along the coast and in my part of Norway you actually drive a car, because you're afraid that the kids in the school bus will be taken by race. We're talking about one of the richest countries in the world. The representative Klinge was in one of his posts here today on this very topic, in the case of the Raising Beach. There's just a race going on again, just after you've started driving school students on buses again. And then the representative, who also sits on the Transport Committee, says that it's important to try to find a solution so that we can get started faster. Yeah, I totally agree. It would just be missing if we couldn't make sure to get some money, so that at least our children who are going to school can travel safely! And the only way to do it on that stretch is to put a tunnel in place. You have the opportunity, there is actually a proposal on the table today. It is entirely possible to agree to proposal No. 116. The centre party is more than welcome to end up on this proposal, create a majority, so Jenny Klinge can come back to his part of More and Romesdal and tell you: Yes, I took you seriously – yes, I made sure that the proposals of the Progress Party got a majority in the Stortinget. It should just be missing – because you're as much worth as anyone else in this country. There are also a number of other good projects: Tresfjordbrua, Måndal–Wåge has been mentioned. In fact, Mondal–Wåge is also a racial protection project. We have a lot of good measures, and you need money. What we don't need is more of the highway robbery that we see around, where it pop up toll station at the toll station. Norway can afford to turn some of its financial assets into assets and make sure that people can travel well and safely on the roads in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2413	The President would point out that ‘land-road robbery’ is not a parliamentary expression of the decision taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2416	I take the floor for the second time in this debate as an answer to Mr Sanner's intervention earlier today. He spent half his post questioning the Government's interest, intention and willingness to do his part of the job in relation to the new E18. I have to say, I think it's a little strange, simply because it's the first government that has managed to get E18 through Asker and Bærum into the national transport plan, for example. in contrast to the previous government, where the Right was set. I believe that this is not a day for murmuring or blackpainting, when we have just got it in place. The second reason why I want to comment on Mr. Sanner's comments is that he had a little bit of chatter about what I said about the fact that it is up to all parties in Oslopack 3 to respect the basic principles that are agreed on, in particular that of the steering group, that is. Deputy rapporteur Igstad in Akershus and City Councillor Kallmyr in Oslo. They have a special responsibility for anchoring. I don't think it's a problem to stress it, but instead, the representative Sanner should have done the same thing himself. He also has a responsibility that we, all parties, should continue to cooperate. The fact that Oslo and Akershus have previously struggled to get projects into the national transport plan is that we have cooperated too poorly across party boundaries. We have a lot to learn from many other states in that way. That's why I'm sorry that tone came in with Oslopackak 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2423	The centre batch has found a new rhetoric today on OPS: Way of payment. It's funny, by the way, that it comes from the Center Party, which is really for OPS. They have voted in favour of this in the Chamber earlier. Weighing or borrowing financed? Well. Hospitals are financed by loans, schools are financed by loans, even Gardermoen is financed by loans. Business buildings are financed by loans, ships are financed by loans, machinery is financed by loans. I should not be surprised if the tractor for Lundtägen is also financed by loans. Why? – Yes, because the yield on the non-borrowed is much higher than the interest cost. In addition, we have a little bit of a problem that we're going to vote on here tonight, for example. four toll projects, and I think the percentage of toll financing, i.e. debt financing, is between 80 and 90 pst. in those projects. Did someone mention that they would not have a project on payment? The deployment of OPS is twice as fast. Everyone agrees – TØI, the Directorate of Road and the Railways. But it doesn't get any cheaper, says the Council of State and the Red-Greens. - Yeah, I guess. In fact, a KPMG report from England shows the opposite. But the interesting thing is, cheaper for who? For the state? - Well, maybe. But not for business, for most people or for those traffic victims who did not get the road four to five years earlier. This is important to the Right. That's why we've gone heavily into OPS. I noticed that the Council of State was not in the Chamber when I kept my post. But I actually said that one of the reasons we're going so badly for OPS as a project finance solution is that we want to commit ourselves and use oil revenues on long-term investments. Yeah, it'll give you bonds. Yes, it's privately funded, and – yes, it's a success. However, it is not the Government's promise of project financing. It's wrong when Lundtägen calls it a project, a separate post on the state budget, for project financing. With all due respect – he has not been involved in what project funding is. It might be tempting to ask what the representative Steinar Gullvåg of the Workers' Party and his combat traps, who had to put a formulation into the Workers' Party's program, says about Lundtigen's interpretation. He must also be very disappointed that this has not been included in the majority position. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2432	The number is over. The President allows himself to recall that we still have a significant agenda in front of us in Stortinget and then in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2437	The national transport plan is the document within the transport structure on which the Government of the period of planning is responsible for its work. But now the Storting must soon demand that the Council of State follow up decisions that have already been taken. I then intend to make decisions on overnight offers from Kristiansand to Oslo. Liv Signe Navarsete stated in Stortinget on 19 November 2008: ‘I strongly distance myself from all the insinuations that we do not comply with the Stortinge’s decisions.’ And she said, ‘We work to meet this and all the other major decisions in a clean and good way. We shall continue to do so.» She also said, ‘In my main response, I said that we are working on this matter, that the NSB is working on the matter, that we have had external consultants working on the matter, and that the promises that have been made available are in no way opaque for what this will cost. But when it's the Storting's priority, we also have to find room for the funds." If the Council of State still takes a strong distance from the insinuations that she does not follow up the decision to raise the stakes, I do not know, but at least it seems that way to me. I have been in contact with the department on this matter several times. When the answer from political management in the department is that it is not possible to get Norway’s fifth largest city a night offer, it sounds hollow and incredible. Today there are two sleeping cars from Stavanger, and the train stops in Kristiansand. That it is impossible to turn off one of the wagons in Kristiansand, I mean speaking for myself. NSB’s workshop at Stream shall build new sets of vehicles for the Fly train – a stand-alone company in which the train sets have much higher speed. The fact that the same do not have the competence to build a sleeping car also seems incredible to me. That a company in the Drammen called MiTrans could reconstruct and modernize vehicles for the Swedish railway, which the NSB would not have, in six months' time, is also a cross of thought. It was 'all power in this hall' that was pronounced, not all for this hall. Now the roll-up decision has to be followed up. I expect that, and the Storting should expect that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2461	When NTP was presented, there were strong reactions in the South. And as we heard from previous speakers, Southerners can be quite strong in their reactions. Apart from the reconstructed celebration scenes arranged for and by the red-greens, and the statements of Freddy de Ruiter, the representative of East-Agder, that this was Christmas Eve for the South, the rest of the country was marked by deep disappointment. Just under 500 million. NOK we were satisfied with during the planning period. It was even so bad that on the map on pages 277 and 278 of the NTP, you have even finished cutting out the southern point itself – you have not been able to get the whole of Southland on the map. During the Bondevik II period, we got a long-term project to Southern Sweden – 500 billion kroner helped to ensure that all the projects we are now seeing are completed. As a trouser who was visiting me said: I will never complain again about the E6 after moving on the road network down to you. Today we've been told that NODE is an NCE, the Norwegian Centres of Expertise, a business cluster that has really had incredible success and needs better infrastructure. We should be able to connect the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen with project funding. I see that there are good words, but getting the funds to get you started would be good. The highway must reflect that people live west of Kristiansand. We woke up to a jubilant centre party, which cheered that the road had now become a little more extended than what was in the NTP. It turned out that it was approx. 100 meters. If the council has a couple hundred meters left, I think we'll be able to take it. The Christian People's Party has created a road-safe transport plan. One of the things that's made me the most happy is that we've arranged to get a Barna's transport plan. Coping with traffic challenges and solutions with children's eyes and according to their needs was something we should do in many more fields, not just in traffic solutions. We have a motto: Southland – where you get profit to create. Everything that now happens in South Africa deserves us to get better infrastructure than it is in the planning period that is now ahead of us. I ask myself, what kind of Christmas is it that the red-greens have, when they can say that this is Christmas Eve for us? The only thing we've got is an offer of a sleeping car – but no, that's true, we haven't seen it, either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2477	In Oslopackakt 3 we aim for the future of traffic within the borders of Oslo and Akershus. Public transport is in focus, climate and environment must be governing. If the Left too could end its negligent admiration for the Progress Party Agency for the Environment and the efforts of society to bring about the climate agreement, perhaps we could also get an even stronger commitment to public transport. We can argue about the reward scheme, but if Oslopak 3 is the case, we have to stand together. There are many people who have been up here and underlined today, and I am pleased about that. It's a broken compromise, and we have little to fetch from each other to challenge each other on this in this room. We must also have public transport throughout the country. Then the high-speed train is a key. We have to be able to travel quickly from the Oslo package to the Bergen package, to say it like this. This is why the Government will also issue out-of-date high-speed trains, so that we have an opportunity to get design and construction started – perhaps already at the next roll of NTP. There is a large majority here in the Grand Duchy who agree. It's just the Progress Party that's on the side of this. But you have seen: In the Official Journal of Bergen on 8 June, in connection with the marking of the Bergensbanen, the chairman of the Progress Party in Bergen, Gunnar Bakke, strikes a blow for lightning. It is good that the Progress Party rapporteur shares our optimistic view of lightning, but the Progress Party rapporteur in Bergen is probably on a full collision course with the Progress Party on the Stortinget, as the Progress Party on the Stortinget is with its local team in a lot of cases. Here Sandberg and Sortevik have used Stortinget's pulpit to ridicule the red-green initiative for a thorough, positive investigation of lightning trains. Such visionary thoughts will not be heard by the party tops of the Progress Party – another example of the fact that the leading trust leaders in the Advance Party disagree with most people and the Progress Party in the country. Per Sandberg has previously stated here in the Chamber that FrPs who are in favour of tolls suffer from the Stockholm syndrome. Probably there are hostages who have to be rescued from themselves. It might be interesting to ask Sandberg if he believes that the rapporteur in Bergen, Gunnar Bakke, is also suffering from the Stockholm syndrome, since he is in favour of something that the Government is in favour of. Last time someone in Bergen went in for tolls, they had to intervene centrally and save them from themselves. Is the Progress Party also going to intervene to save Gunnar Bakke from the dangerous thoughts of fast trains between Oslo and Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2490	The President would point out that the term ‘laughing’ is on the verge of parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2493	The government refers to the administrative reform as a gift package to the states, but I have not seen or heard one county rapporteur or county councillor cheering to get the highways caught – on the contrary. The truth is, the government has sacrificed the highways on the altar of the states. Instead of being concerned with overall planning and efficient resource use, the Government will actively contribute to the opposite when 19 counties plan separately, piecewise and split. The government has done all the pedestals of the bear service. Today, Troms County has large unsolved county road tasks, and the Transport Councils of the Workers' Party have issued the following warning: Transfer of national roads from the state will further exacerbate the situation, because it does not provide enough money. The government adds up to a black player game with the states, which Right takes away from and will not be on. The right is opposed to transferring the highways to the states, because it will provide more fragmented and less efficient road development. The right wants more money, no more bureaucracy. We don't want any smaller roads, and we don't want a system that makes the inhabitants losers when transferring the highways was the real content the red-greens could give the administrative reform. So to Tromsbanen: Last Friday, Nordly's news brought all over the front page that Stortinget says yes to Tromsbanen, and SV-representative Lena Jensen also presented the train schedule and suggested construction start in 2014. In an article at the morning meeting today, Jensen continued to praise the idea of building the Tromsbanen Narvik-Tromsø. This is the eclectic deception of the times! Jensen's problem is, first of all, that her dream of starting construction at Tromsbanen in 2014 is duly crushed by the government partner Arbeiderpartiet, with Vice-Chairman Helga Pedersen at the head. Secondly, Jensen obviously has not studied the NTP numbers, because there is not one penny there to the railway she is going to build, or to the investigation of it. North Norway and Troms have road challenges as far as the tank is concerned, and large parts of the settlement are concentrated along the coast. The train will never be there, and Lena Jensen and other railway enthusiasts will have to take over soon. Therefore, it must be a sunny priority that the roads in the north – Europe roads, highways and highways – must be in a top-notch position before it can reach some railways. Secondly, we have a number of coastal municipalities screaming for better ports and safer fairways. Therefore, it is in the Right's view a solid derailment to bring in the Tromsbanen when other unresolved transport projects are in line. The proposal to explore the Tromsban is most evident as a desperate and unprofessional election campaign play – without funding and thus without any chance of being realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2510	The representative Halleraker expressed himself in such a way that it could sound as if debt financing were the cheapest, and to really underline that, he came up with KPMG's report from England to prove it. For me, it's just healthy farmland – loans are the most expensive. It's something a user when you can't afford to finance any sail, it's that simple. One doesn't have to go to England to experience it. So to Right Bent Höie, who wondered if Lundtigen had become a member of the Treasury's calculation models. No, there's still a good piece left for that. They are still quite incomplete, but my main point about OPS was – and I want to stress it – that OPS is poorer financing as an alternative to a rich state. The representative of the Right said that OPS is for the Right both the method of financing and the method of deployment. I referred to the Government's position on page 91 of the Storing Communication on new forms of contract, where a request to investigate new forms of contract that will also apply when planning and repairing longer distances, with low traffic on the road, i.e. where operation, maintenance and repair are put on tenders, which involve real competition. It's exemplary. Thus, the way in which it is developed will be in the best hands, while at the same time the way in which it is financed is in the best hands. The Progress Party and the Right have an ideological dogma in prioritising road investment. Those are cost-benefit assessments. «Global economy - How the rich became rich and the poor become poorer» is a current book on international economic policy by Professor Erik S. Reinert. This is also the result in the road sector if simple economic cost-benefit assessments are guiding principles. To put it the way, the book title becomes: why the good roads get better, and the bad roads get worse. This is how many communities feel about it in the districts. For the Central Party, it is important to use the power and financial resources of the State to counter the centralisation forces – shrinking the country, of which the Progress Party was a follower – fibre, supply driven by public investment, road and modern rail. Thus, we will avoid racing with increasing queue problems around our big cities, a race that all governments around the world are losing, regardless of democratic color. The representative Aspaker from the Right criticized the red-green government for missing appropriations to North Norway. Facts: With the Right-Registration, investments in North Norway were halved in the previous planning period, cf. the earlier period. Now there's a four-fold increase in the rate of expansion in the new NTP. This shows the red-green government, which in this area takes the slogan ‘By-and-land hand-in-hand’ more seriously than what has been done in the past. And thank you and thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2527	The representative Borghild Tende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2530	The representative of Truls Wickholm does not stop amazementing me. Unlike everyone else here tonight, he is speaking against his own constituency, namely Oslo. It's eye-catching, and it should actually be noticed by the voters. This is the reward scheme. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport: «The reward scheme is, in principle, a performance-based scheme intended to premise documented results». Throughout the evening he has been standing and talking about the climate agreement that we in opposition were actually a driver for. Then there is also the Ministry of Transport's page on how to deal with the reward scheme. The list of what Oslo has actually done, Truls Wickholm can get from me afterwards. I'm not going to say that in the short minute I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2544	Historically, it is sad to say that very much of what is planned in the field of transport in the second half of the planning period is never realized. We've seen that under a lot of governments. Unfortunately, very many of the road extensions planned in Finnmark are also in the second half of the planned period. For this reason, the Progress Party has lifted both the expansion of Skaidi-Hammerfest and the expansion of Tana Bru. We have raised the E105 Storskog – Hesseng into the first part of the plank, and we have also granted extra 100 million. kr to Storskog-Hesseng. I can't say much positively about the race protection that it is provided in the NTP for Finnmark's part. There's no big bet, as some representatives say it's here. But my main concern is perhaps that we see that the Center Party wants a formidable bet on lightning trains, with NOK 350 billion. It can be well and good for large parts of the country. At the same time, we know that we have very few airports with a profit, and the allocation that today's airports with an economic surplus give to the airports in Finnmark is actually vital for us to have regularity at our airports. At the same time, today's government rejects any kind of state operation of our airports. Is it so that the Center Party is calling for our airports to be shut down in Finnmark? There is no financing model for these in what is being presented to the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2557	If the Council of State Navarsete, Torstein Rudihagen, Irene Johansen, Rune J. Küllaaen, Marianne Aasen, Per Olaf Lundtegen and everyone else who has devoted the attention of the Right OPS proposal today are concerned that the Right should not be able to cover the expenditure in the future government budget, I must disappoint them. Yes, it will make larger commitments to OPS – yes, it will! At the same time, it will provide Norway with a decent road network during a much faster period than we have seen so far. We'll get long, continuous expansion sections. We won't have a aftermath, because the road has to be maintained for 25 years as part of the contract. Norway has enough money, they say red-green. Why, then, has the share of transport of GDP fallen every year, even under the red-green regime? Why are there many dozens of projects unrealized from the old transport plan – the one we are now in the middle of, and the red-green boasts of are overfilled? Why are there some twenty projects that haven't started up at all? Well, because the focus has always been on the heads and ears, not on the implementation of the projects. With OPS, one will have that opportunity, and that's why I'm going to fight for this. I am pleased that an overall opposition has seen it as the representative of Lundteg, the representative of Rudihagen, etc. has not seen, namely that OPS is a proper tool, used by many other countries. «OPS is poor finance», says Lundtigen. Loan financing is like poor man's financing. Smoking, Fredriksen and even my combination, Olav Thon, have financed most of what they do. Loan financing is an appropriate mechanism and debt financing is also provided by the State by using tolls in most projects. Take Buskerud as an example. Rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika is ready for expansion. Everything is clear, but the department wants it to come in 2013–2014. Let's get started right away. We can vote for this tonight. The representative of Lundtigen and others may vote for or oppose the launch of Sokna–Örgenvika. What about rv. Twenty-three? The Oslo Earth Tunnel was disbursed in 2013. Then the traffic will flow through Lier and Smoke, but there are no plans to start this up until early 2014–2015. The right will get started earlier. That's why we want to use untraditional funding, so we want a boost for transportation. It's serious, and we're going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2572	The representative Eirin Fallet has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2575	When we dealt with the previous transport plan here, it was a lift. Everyone agreed. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV received support from the Advance Party. Thanks to the Progress Party, we got more money for transportation. We were happy about that. Now the government grants even more money, and then people can make themselves say that there is so little money that it gets dark on the Finnish coast. But that's actually more money! I think it's a bit ridiculous – when we can see that there's an increase in budgets – that someone goes up here and makes it so black and gloomy that it's not just dark, but that someone must have actually stolen the entire fuselage!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2582	When the Party of Advancement in Case No. 2 here today is proposing its own major message on maritime transport, as a complement to NTP. I said that in my first post, and the debate here has shown that there is little focus on action and strategy to increase maritime transport. Part of this Communication must focus on reorganisation, on the funding base for urgent efforts to develop fairways and oil protection, and also on investing in port structures. It brings me to the financial framework. Then I think first I should help the representative Rudihagen clean up his confusion. If he starts by reading the settings on page 9, he might realize that there is a difference between a ten-year period and a 25-year period. It is clearly shown on page 9 that during the ten-year period there is an investment of DKK 580 billion, in addition to the Government's proposal, and throughout the period up to 2034 there is an investment of DKK 1015 billion – i.e. from a 25-year perspective. The Progress Party is then accused of acting economically irresponsible when we want to spend NOK 580 billion more than the Government. But the government parties and the other parties that want to have the lightning train say relatively clearly that they are willing to spend up to NOK 350 billion more than what is in the national transport plan for a rather unclear project, namely the lightning train. So they will go beyond what is within the framework of the plan that is now being adopted. That means that there is no discussion about whether you should spend more money or not, the discussion is about how much you should spend. We want to spend NOK 580 billion on the road and on today's railway. The government will use what is meant for the road and today's railway in this plan, and then they will spend up to NOK 350 billion more on a rather unclear project. Then you can assess who's irresponsible. Two government councils have provided incorrect information in this room on the priorities of the Progress Party on transport beyond the country. It is still wrong that we do not give priority to the West and do not give priority to North Norway. In fact, if you take all of the eight corridors into account, if you take racial protection, if you take care of the ferry effort, if you take care of the measurement to the other highways, we are well above what this government has proposed in this plan. How to make a worse priority is difficult to understand. Finally, when it comes to poor finance, there are 60 billion toll crowns in this plan – 60 billion kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2596	When the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen talks about dogmatism, you have to listen, because then there is an expert who speaks out. To the extent that the right is dogmatic, it is that we are dogmatic pragmatic. We want OPS projects, Public Private Cooperation, and something more pragmatic than cooperation between public and private is hard to imagine. The right is not concerned about whether the problem is solved by public or private, we are concerned about the construction of the roads, the construction of the railway, and then we want to find the solutions that give us the fastest and cheapest possible development. Lundtigen chooses to call OPS poverty finance. He'll call it what he wants. These are the realities that have to be determined. Whenever it is possible to speed up the construction of the roads through OPS, when through OPS you can build the roads at the agreed time and at the agreed amount, and when you can in addition trigger creativity through competition, this is an instrument that must be used. I record that several have tried to point out that perhaps the financial politicians in the Right will not be accompanied by what is in the Right Roadmap. Yes, right-wing fiscal politicians are strong supporters of the Right Transport Plan. We want to spend much of the oil money to be phased into the Norwegian economy, to build the country, to invest in roads, knowledge, research, good framework conditions for businesses and for environmental investment. So to the representative Marianne Aasen who obviously liked bad that I pointed out the lack of enthusiasm in the Workers' Party that the E18 west corridor is now accelerating. It reminds me that the Workers' Party and the State Council of Navarsete have been dragging their legs in relation to realising the E18 every year. At first, the construction of the E18 West Corridor was strongly opposed, and since agreement was reached, the construction of the E18 West Corridor has been questioned at regular intervals, especially by the Council of Ministers of Navarsete. I must be allowed to ask the Council of Ministers of Navarsete, who has the floor for me, and Marianne Aasen, too, whether it is that you disagree that the E18 West Corridor should be speeded up until 2013? That's an important question. I believe that it should just be missing, the drivers started to pay that way already in 2008. If it is true that the road is not to be realised until after 2014, then the drivers deliver, while we, as politicians, deliver poorly. It was just to be lacking that the project would not be accelerated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2609	When one listens to some of the posts in the hall today, I have to say that it is well done to produce a bet of 45 pst. in an increased framework in the national transport plan, which we well call ‘inkevetta’, and from a party which itself presented a national transport plan in which it reduced road investment. They increased operating correctly and kept on doing it a little bit, so they came out about zero growth. So we're going to put forward a national transport plan with 45 pst. growth, with 100 billion kr in growth, and then it's made as if there's nothing. Then the light on the Finnmark coast goes out. The representative Lundtägen has done well for the difference between this and the previous government's wagering just in North Norway. Blackvik suggests that today it is agreed to start construction of the high-speed train, and uses about 350 billion kroner as an example of it. It'll be wrong. What one has said in the hall today is that one should have a good professional basis, so that the Storting can make a decision in this big case. This shall be done before the next roll-over of the national transport plan and shall, of course, be followed up. When it comes to the distribution between parts of the country, we have to look at the Progress Party's willingness to make roadways across the country, of course look at their totality and distribute it as a percentage. So let's see how the big money from the Progress Party goes. The fact that, for the region alone, it's going to be larger than the government part -- well, well, when you're browsing an extra half a billion, it's just that you're not going to be able to outdo most of it. But it's the distribution between the different regions that you have to look at. It was a strong nightpost to Kristiansand. I just want to establish that I have great respect for the Storting, and follow up the Storting's decisions. The case is in the Government and will be decided in the Government. The representative who was so sharp, can talk to his party traps in the government and so be with and sympathize that the matter is settled as she should. But I follow up on what the Storting has ordered. When it comes to Oslopakt 3, we have very good cooperation with the regional powers that are Oslo and Akershus. I want to get E18 built out, but I also want to follow up on what's basic in Oslopackack 3, that's the balance between collective and road. That's the balance of the question mark, whether or not it's now being disrupted by the priorities that have been set. If so, you must go inside and look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2622	After working with Oslopackakt 3 for 11 years, approx. 3.5 years before the birth in order to prepare for the birth, and then 7.5 years after the birth in order to care for the child until it grows up, I can say the following: This is the sincere Norwegian fissure and hard work model. A Central Party Minister of Transport and everyone else should be happy. That's 80 pst. local car tax for the benefit of (a) collective 40 pst., (b) 10 pst. road safety, c) 50 pst. way. I think the Council of State should assume – as it is voted on later this evening – that that distribution is being held. I'll take that into account. But I took the word to underline one more thing. I want to let go that some red-greens want to take a Frp because that's what they love most in this world. I fight with Frp's when there's cause for it. But when a progress party bureau in Oslo sits in a city council and public transport increases by 12 p.m., car traffic decreases by 1 p.m., you must not be so eager to take someone because they have crazy party label, then you must keep to the fact that Oslopacket 3 is so solid in Oslo that there are all except Red with – the Progress Party is included. To distribute these rewards, we must not risk Oslo and Akershus having a 40pst. the crown rate in the bombardment, not being rewarded for it. You should really get the reward for that. I know the council is pretty good at taking these things to heart, but I need to say it. One should rather see it so that here in the central parts of the country you have taken the force to bet elsewhere where there is not so much to collect from tolls. In the case of collective funds, there is an incredible amount of work to be done, and the results should be proud of. One should study how public transport can increase by 12 pst, how car traffic can decrease by 1 pst, and then one should realize that paying 40 kroner, as you do then, is partly causing the investment in Stockholm to fade somewhat. This is a Norwegian result. There is a cooperation between the centre/right and the centre/left to stick to a package. I took the word now because I noticed that there are some small reflexes and a little bit of political nervousness around this. It shouldn't be. Of course, it is so that everyone may have marking needs in many directions, but the soundness of this work lies there. There are two main pillars in the work, plus something in addition. The main pillars are collective action and E18. That's what's the basic contract, and then the other things that came into the agreed, local agreement. To conclude, I think it's great that Trondheim gets the package they get. But it must not be that you talk down the result in Oslo and Akershus because it is appropriate from the political correctness to do so. I'll warn you very strongly against that. If someone wants to have a conflict with the Left, it's just to pick this particular conflict, to reward a success that strengthening collective means has to be one of the best things to do. So let it be the reward in Trondheim, but don't use the reward in Trondheim because it's red-green, and someone else in addition: center. Make sure that there is a real counting in Oslo and Akershus too, because they deserve it from the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2635	The next speaker is Vera Lighten Cloth.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2638	My name is Lighten, not Lighten, just to have said it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2643	The president's sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2646	It is a very important plan we are discussing today, namely a 10-year plan for the transport sector in this country. As a Finnmark representative, I am very pleased that we are now getting a real start on an expansion of E6 west of Alta. This is one thing that we in Finnmark Left have fought with a lot of others in our county over the years to get us in place. It is particularly important for business, travel and the whole population in all possible contexts, including: in an emergency context. Then I would say that I am going to vote in favour of proposal No. 18 in the setting, which reads: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to explore the coast road in Finnmark’. I think it is very important that we should at least be able to work out a coastal road in this transport planning period. Finnmark is a huge state, the size of Denmark, and we have a great need to be able to connect the different parts along the coast much closer than we have in our state today. Such a path could reduce the distance from Loppa and Sørøya to Hammerfest by 20 miles and the distance from Båtsfjord to Vardø by 19 miles. It could, if appropriate, require only 50 km of new road and two bridges. The large deportation from the Finnish coast is worrying, and it should also concern our central authorities. We have to do something to stop this relocation. Connecting the different communities and municipalities much closer together through a coastal road can be very important in this context. A coastal route will also be very important in view of the activity we see in the future in the north, in the Barents Sea, in the context of travel and last, but not least in the context of preparedness, for example. in the event of a breakdown of an oil tank outside the Finnland coast. First, of course, such a project has to be investigated, so that we can weigh the positive and possibly negative sides up to each other. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about something that is very close to my heart, namely, the fast-track – the world's most beautiful voyage at sea. It is important that this is mentioned in a day like this. The fast route is very important for North Norway. It is so important that we in the left have programmed that we should maintain the contact points we have today. I cannot therefore agree that we should water down the fast route concept that we have in mind that, as some people now call for, the fast route should sail from Stavanger to Kirkenes, and not as it does today, the trip-return Bergen-Kirkenes. It is very important that we maintain the sailing pattern that is, and that we do everything we can to help maintain the points of call that are along the sailing route from Bergen to Kirkenes. Quick route is the most important travel product we have here in the country, and also what is best known abroad. Then it's completely wrong to take focus away from the original navigation panel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2666	We're going to deal with Oslopackak 3 here today, too. This has been a long process, with several representatives in the past. I want to remind you what is behind this deal. This agreement has four components that it's important to remember – it's a very hard deal: it's about the order of the projects. It's about the financing of the projects. It's about the balance between what the money is going to do. And it's not least about climate. I would like to say it so strongly that when we here at Stortinget after all the negotiations that have taken place locally and all the work that has been done up until now – we have comments from the entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which says that all possible changes should be well anchored locally – then it is bound to be disloyalty to the deal we get here today, to go out the day before this is to be dealt with in the Stortinget and to bring into a huge road project, E18, a huge road project that has been located after 2014 in Oslopak 3, as it now exists, and in that way, within the next four years, to say that this is to be prioritised. There's no doubt that all of us who sit here prioritizing transportation projects, we know that if you give priority to something, you give priority to other things down. When we agree that the climate will underpin the work we are going to do, I will ask the basic question of putting E18 into this project and thus prioritizing other things, will be something that improves the climate of that package. The answer to that is that it will not be able to do so. In this way, I think that the arrangement it is put up to, and the balloons and suggestions that have been made from the two of the steering group, both from the City Council of Oslo and the county rapporteur in Akershus, are helping to make it more difficult for us when we're going to drive on here. I notice that this is drawn up as a matter for the election campaign. So this is a deal we've been working together to both solve the problems in the transport sector in Oslo and make sure that we get the first bet where we actually take tolls and improve the operation of public transport. We see that even before we adopt this today, the Right Party and the Progressive Party are on the path of war. I'm asking one question to the right, and it's whether the Right Party and the Advance Party here don't realize that what they're doing is putting on a very hard and important deal, which was basically also to solve the climate problems. So that's the last one. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2683	The number is out. The President will again remind us that we still have a fierce program ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2688	I agree with the last president. I'll try to do my best not to provoke anyone to further debate. The reason I took the floor is the Senterpartiet and Lundtigen, who have been talking about poverty financing. The Advance Party is for Public Private Cooperation, but we do not share the Right's view of what is in Public Private Cooperation. We have a suspicion – but it has to be confirmed or categorized by the Right itself – that toll financing is the basis of their public-private cooperation project. However, Public Private Cooperation can be used in many ways without introducing user payments from the drivers. It is the Progress Party for, because what the three OPS projects have shown is, which also the Right has made quite clear, that it is much faster to get on a road. Getting a road faster will bring socio-economic benefits in the long term. There's no doubt about it. But when the representative Lundtigen sees Public Private Cooperation, OPS, as poverty financing, I would just like to point out that during this period, which ends quite soon, the Centre Party will have been behind 32 toll projects – 32 toll projects! – with a total cost for the drivers of nearly 81 billion kroner. Of the 81 billion kroner that the Centre Party has charged to the carrollers on the road, there are 13 billion kroner in finance costs and collection costs. I registered that the representative Lundtägen said that it should not be necessary to make payments in Norway when you are so rich. I totally agree! But why in the world is the Senterpartie standing behind and accepting to pay 13 billion kroner in finance costs and collection costs because they have accepted 32 toll projects that are way off payment? That's exactly what the Progress Party is trying to clarify: we have the money to get a cash flow to build this kind of infrastructure. And then we're also criticized for that. But as the representative Sortevik clearly said in his last post, it is not that we spend so much money, it is about, because the government parties also want to use similar funds, but then to build lightning trains in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2703	As a resident in the Oslo and Akershus area, I am pleased that Oslopackak 3. I believe that the main reason we've got the government in line is the inter-political unity of the Oslo Pact. I have noticed that the Government has delivered in the National Transport Plan, and in a separate proposition on Oslopackakt 3, and I am pleased with the vote by the Committee. It is only when it is stated in the national transport plan that the E18 will be expanded. When I took the floor, it was because I sat in the office and heard a post from Jan Tore Sanner, who claimed that the Government and the Minister of Transport left behind with regard to the development of the E18. And that's what a representative from the area says – Jan Tore Sanner, who promised in the 2001 election campaign that the new E18 would come in the next big-time only the Right came in government. There wasn't a millimeter more E18 during the bourgeois period of government, neither in word nor in action. No one doubted that there was some uncertainty about the plans for the projects in the package, and that one probably had to take a round after it was quality-proof, and that one had to take a discussion about the portfolio. But the point here is this: a local steering group was set up to make representations about how to change the order of the projects, but this was to happen after a unified attitude among those who had agreed on the package initially. So I have to say that the greatest danger to progress in Oslopackakt 3 is if the Right is to continue to stand in the election campaign and not to act as if you still have to try to hold the local consensus politically both in Oslo and in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2713	I think a lot of the debate we've had around Oslopack 3, with all due clarity, shows that there is a need for us to take the decision that many people have indicated that they will agree on, that we agree on the balance, and that in some way we're avoiding a situation where we're going to make it the biggest campaign to fight over who's best at the millimeter. I think it's Oslopackak 3 and the inhabitants of Oslo and Akershus will lose weight. The reason I took the floor is that I react quite strongly when a representative from another county can go to this pulpit and say that I am failing my own constituency. I think that's a pretty strong diet. What I have been concerned about is that we follow the climate agreement, and then I will read the climate agreement. It says: ‘The majority agree that the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use or similar schemes should be strengthened. Furthermore, the majority agree that the allocation of the public transport reward scheme is doubled in the 2009 State budget, provided that binding agreements are reached on local and regional measures for the reduction of car traffic. Priority shall be given to urban areas wishing to test road pricing, differentiated toll rates or other traffic regulation measures. Road pricing is a local tool. Therefore, road pricing will not be introduced without local connection.» This is what I believe the City Council in Oslo has not followed up. Note also that I do not take the entire council together. I put the responsibility where it is, because the City Council has stated quite clearly that he does not want to enter into a dialogue on this type of action. I think Oslo is losing, and then I think it's stupid that the Left should sort of make a game out of this and make it look like the Government is failing Oslo. The Government follows up the decision of the entire Storting, with the exception of the Advance Party, with the exception of the Right to Word. I think that must be a reason why one sat night after night in connection with the climate agreement and came up with exactly these words. It wasn't for fun. It wasn't for some parties to have the right to define what was good enough. When the Ministry of Transport sends a letter to the City Council in Oslo with an invitation to dialogue in order to try to reach a binding agreement, and it becomes a waste, you cannot hang a bell at the Ministry of Transport and say that they have not done their job. Oslo shall have praise for all they do in public transport. Oslo is doing a lot of good, and that's why Oslo also gets over 80 million. kr in the allocation, but they don't follow up on the climate agreement, that's what I brought up here today, and I'm disappointed that the council doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2725	There were a few things that made me take the word, among other things. This is 45 pst. growth. You try to create a hallelujah mood for 45 pst. growth since the previous national transport plan. Then I asked what the price increase has been in the same period, and the answer is that it's about 40 pst. That means that there has hardly been any real growth, and in an economy that has grown quite strongly in the same period, that means that the proportion of people who go to transport is actually still falling. So here you might want to keep the lines and the bars apart, and look at the difference between what's real growth, and what's nominal growth. So it's not so strange that it doesn't create the hallelujah mood that the Council of State is after. Then I have also heard that the word ‘poor man’s finance’ has been used in connection with OPS. I think that's a pretty incredible concept. The poor man's funding that it is then about is what has actually made the Norwegian people a self-owned people of their own homes, that is, it is possible to realize a dwelling today against the income you want in the future. Poor man – that’s when you don’t get a loan and have no income or anything to play on in the future. Using future revenues and future returns to realize a project today is actually a well-known model to realise a higher standard of living than can be realised through cash payments today. That's actually what OPS is about. A lot of District Norway doesn't have time to sit and wait until we've saved the capital we need to realize the projects. We have to get them going today. What's behind it is that the return on getting the projects started is far higher than by sitting and waiting, and then actually OPS is the sensible solution to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2732	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2735	I will briefly take up three things about Oslopackak 3. Decisions in Oslo City Council are as advanced in terms of climate as the national climate agreement. It also obliges all, no matter who they are, agencies. Oslo and Akershus are jointly seeking incentives. That's why no one should talk it down. Everyone should talk it up and say that they have earned it now after making a good effort, when public transport is increasing and car traffic is decreasing. The preparation of some projects is mentioned in the Ministry's own case. There are three examples in the department's case. That's the E18 west, that's the E18 east Mossewegen, and there's the E6 lock in the Groruddalen. When someone has mentioned it, it is because there is a solid basis in the matter that the Government has submitted. When the government has mentioned it, it is because the government at this point is also, of course, loyal to what has been achieved locally. Then we should all deal with it. Then we can take it very easy, because we're all interested in not cutting holes in the lifeboat we're all sitting in. Oslo Package 3 is for the citizens of Oslo and Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2752	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2755	OPS is poorer financing as an option for a rich country. Europe uses OPS because it has no money. It's that simple. The representative Sanner said that the Right is dogmatic-pragmatic in terms of Public Private Cooperation. It's not new in economic policy that private earns money on the naïveness of the state, or the majority of the population. The state pays, and the financial industry takes the profit. OPS builds roads faster? That's not true. The state has the money to pay now if it is political will to do so. OPS triggers creativity through competition. With the government's new forms of contract, it's gone. The right-wing fiscal spokesman is asked if he is a member of OPS. I've never been in doubt that he is. The right has opted for Entra as an alternative to the responsibility of State Building. New high school buildings in Drammen, sky-high rents, shifting increased financial costs to future growth, could be financed from the state budget if it was political will to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2768	Good communication is a decisive prerequisite for an up-to-date and vibrant business. Thus, businesses, municipalities and county municipalities joined forces in a joint effort, a joint lift, many years ago and formed the airport at Stord. Later, the same actors have taken responsibility time and time again to keep living at this airport. It has our frustration, it has our uncertainty about the future, but they have kept it going, and it has created a completely different situation, another certainty, that there are now 12 million. kr annually guaranteed in the State budget every year to this airport. But there's still an insecurity there, because we know that one can't guarantee annual promises on the state budget – if so, they can be gone. Thus, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have merged on a proposal to take over the airport at Stord. It would give you an entirely different security. It would give a safe landing for this important airport, which is of enormous and invaluable importance to the industry throughout Sunnhordland, and it had the Sunnhordland industry on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2775	It is still interesting to sit in the hall and right on many good posts, although some of them are very negative when considering the situation. I want to search two. First to Vera Lightcloth, who spoke warmly about the need for road in Finnmark. It's not quite in the style of what Left has put into its transport plan, where a exposed Storskog-Hesseng, and there are many other cuts that are not specified. In this sense, it might be interesting for both this hall and not least those outside the hall to know what other route in Finnmark will be postponing with the Left's priorities and cutting off the road sector. Yes, I know there's a strong desire to clear the coastal road. Distribution is required, however. To this end, a budget concentrates on the projects that are part of the national transport plan and which it is agreed to be built. There are a lot of projects around the country that would like to get paid, and which I would like to be given in isolation. But at the same time, we have increased the frames by 45 pst. – with 100 billion kroner – and there are many, many projects, not least in Finnmark, where the previous government actually halved the effort, while adding up a quadruple of effort. So I hope people see who's working so that there's light in the houses. The representative of Gunnar Gundersen may not have been in there when I did the right thing for the price increase in a previous post. The price increase has not been 40–45 pst. general for investment in transport. He's varied from 4 pst. to 8 pst. in 2008, which was a very special year, with a special boom. After the financial crisis came to an end, costs have fallen. We look at several projects that there are other times. How one in the Right then makes it become 40-50 pst., is a mystery to me. But functional contracts, the flagship itself from the previous government, when one was going to renew them, had increased the price by 40 pst, and actually up to 50 pst., which shows that hallelujah singing about putting off competition when it comes to renewing the contracts, that one then actually does not have a good competition, but that there are entrepreneurs who can make tough demands, and take high prices. So the misery stories are little like all of the recordings we've got from positive people in the whole country, with the business at the head. LO, NHO, both employers’ and employees’ organisations within the transport sector, applauded the arrival of this transport plan, and said: Finally, there is a government that will invest in transport – we have been waiting for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2790	Since it is so long since the Minister for Coastal Affairs and Fisheries is mentioned, I will mention it in my speech and say that it is very good that we now have a real commitment at ports, get transport across the sea – environmentally friendly transport – and get better coordination between the various modes of transport. So I used to have a line on the left about rail bet and privatisation. I did not get a response to my reply, but I was dismayed that the SV had not got anything at all on the railway bet. That was the answer from the representative Tenden, and that it was actually more important with supply than with the environment. It was kind of the starting point. I would just like to remind you that, in the 2005 budget, Torild Skogsholm presented a proposal for a railway operation of a total of DKK 1.6 billion, while in 2009 we, with the Swedish Government, spend NOK 10 billion on rail. It is then nothing, and shows that SV has lost in government, said Left. But speak here, I guess, speaks for itself. I'm also a little surprised that the Left doesn't have North Norway in mind about the nation's future when it comes to the railways. This government wants to do this, go into it more closely, and SV wants to start building in 2014. The left has nothing to do with rail in North Norway. I also think that is disappointing. So the representative from the Right has been attacked by the Government so that the government doesn't get into the North-Jären urban runway, which is called "Hallgeir's Baby". It is true that it was SV who proposed it in 1993. But it's wrong what he says, because it's easy for the government to admit 6 million. kr for urban runway planning. We're interested in continuing to be on that split layer, and SV wants to go heavy into an urban orbit bet. The problem is that there are no local decisions that end up having a city track there, and then it's hard to allow concrete means to do it. The high-speed debate seems to me to have been a milestone. We have now had a serious, thorough debate on high-speed trains in Stortinget, and very many parties, almost all of them, have said something about it. It shows that the value we're facing is great. One party will focus more on pollution, more on traffic machines, more on asphalt, more on greenhouse gas emissions, while others will be out of this asphalt fog and into a green future that binds regions and districts together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2803	So speaking time is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 3. [[Votation, see pages 3587 and 3597]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2822	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each group and 3 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2831	There is a long extension road project that is being agreed today. Øyer-Trett is the first stage in an extension of E6 northwards from Lillehammer. Development will lead to far better visibility and safer conditions on a stretch where there have been very many accidents over a long period of time. The project also reduces E6 by 2 kilometers, and these effects, i.e. reducing the number of accidents and time savings, mean that this is a project with great net benefits. It appears that a robust project. In order not to delay, I refer to the proposition and the setting, but I have to say the following: First, there is a multiple, all the game without the Advance Party, which is behind the setting. In the course of the treatment, some questions have been asked to the department, and there are some information that shows, among other things. to the tunnel safety regulation, which implies that the Skarsmo tunnel must be extended by means of an escape tunnel or two tunnels as soon as the annual daily traffic exceeds 8 000. It assumes that there must be a second race before 2014, and one that the Government will return to the Storting with its own arrangement. Secondly, there have been some questions about the route that goes up today. Here you can see a wide two-field path with some lengthy pregaps. It's in the response from the department shown that rv. 2 between Klöfta and Nybakk is built with a width of 16 metres, and that this solution is actually road with mid pull and continuous pass-by fields in both directions. According to the majority, instead of building the planned project, one has the possibility to consider building a 16-metre narrow four-field road on the whole route, so that one actually gets a pass-by field on the entire route. So the plural calls on the State Road Administration to assess this, under three clear premises. Firstly, it must be possible to implement the minor amendment to the regulatory plan as necessary. Secondly, one has to stay within the finance arrangement that is outlined here. And thirdly, it suggests that this should not lead to delays in the implementation of the project. On the basis of these provisions, it would then be appropriate for the State Road Service to consider building a narrow four-field road rather than building a road with bounded adjacent lanes. But I stress again that this should be kept within the cost framework outlined, and the financing arrangements and the time frame set up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2849	I'll be brief. This is an important extension project, which is, of course, supported by the Progress Party. We also want the Thirteen-Otta route on E6 to be defined as one project, and built on full state funding. I address our two suggestions in the matter of this. So we're for the project, but we're not satisfied with the funding solution. What we are meeting in this matter, like a little bridge from the debate we have now had for eight hours, about the national transport plan, is, of course, poor man's financing. In the case of this project, which is one of eight toll projects now formally pending at the end of this session and relating to an investment of 880 million. So it's going to be $828 million. kr. It's expensive when the state forces the drivers to buy their way on the payroll; it's going to be an expensive solution for the drivers. Let me end by saying that the sum of the toll bill for all of these eight things that we now have at fast speed – fast speed, so to speak – should be dealt with in the Stortinget in the interview of the session, is formidable. So there's a toll bill here of $9 billion in grants, and an additional bill of $3.6 billion. So here the government, at the request of the session, serves NOK 12.7 billion more in special taxation in the form of extra tolls for the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2862	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2865	I am not going to spend a long time, but I want to commend the case rapporteur for a clean and good treatment of this matter. We finally got a very good solution. I must also say, although it may provoke a few late in the meeting, that it is basically a small “Higher Transport Plan Light”, this. Here we get the most likely narrow four-field, and then we give the state roadway service the freedom to choose what is best. Yes, there are two of the points in our transport plan. That's great. We'd like to have OPS on the whole route, and suggest that you look at it next time, and I'll deal with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2874	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2877	I am pleased that the Stortinget today will join in the proposal to start the work of improving the E6 north of Lillehammer, in this round the distance from Øyer to Thirteen. The project has a length of about 13 km and will shorten E6 by about 2 km. The line has a bad curve and does not meet the standard requirements according to its function and traffic. The road lacks both satisfactory side-path networks and the provision of walking and medical facilities. New E6 from Øyer to Rustberg will mainly follow existing southerly trajectory with east latitude extension. Furthermore, the E6 goes through Skarsmoen to Thirteen in a new tunnel. Conversion of the local road network is part of the project. In addition, the project includes measures on Rv. 254, with the construction of a new bridge over the Low and the level crossing at Dovrebana. In the proposal, the Government suggests that E6 be built as a two-field path with a mid pulley and a pass-by field. The approximately 4 km long tunnel is built with a single race and a central field. There are approved control plans for the entire project, and it has been added to the plant start in autumn 2009 and the opening in autumn 2012. I have noticed that the committee would like to have two lanes in each direction on that part of the non-tunnel road. Even if the traffic in summer is higher than the rest of the year, and there is a lot of heavy transport on this road, the traffic is quite far away from the requirements that are set in road normality to a road with four fields. We have previously managed NTP and discussed what the financial frameworks should be used for. If, in all the projects within the NTP, we select a standard that is better and more expensive than the one underlying the estimate of costs, it could have consequences. A rough assessment says that there is an additional cost of about 50 million. kr. I have selected the Committee's clarification that a possible extension to a continuous four-step runtime field does not have to lead to the road being completed later. As noted by the Committee, such an extension would lead to regulatory changes that could take some time. Even if I have had some problems with a possible extension of four lanes on the current routes, I can promise Storting that the Road Administration will be closely involved in the mission given by the Committee. The result of that assessment is that I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. When the representative Halleraker says that this is a “Right Transport Plan light”, I would remind him that when we make recommendations to the Stortinget, they are largely based on the professional advice we receive from the State Road Administration. So the big difference I can't really see. The proposal takes the view that the implementation of the Eurovignette Directive could have an impact on the discount rates for heavy goods vehicles. As I wrote in a letter to the Committee, it is difficult to say something exactly about the timing and the manner in which the Tolls Directive is to be implemented in Norwegian law, and therefore it is not possible to say anything concrete about it in relation to this project. I will come back to Stortinget in the appropriate way when it is clarified. In any case, we will have a much safer way, and I would like to thank the Committee for its speedy and good management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2903	No more people have asked for the floor. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2920	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes for each group and 3 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Dagrun Eriksen, who is given the floor on behalf of the spokesperson for Saka, Jan Sahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2931	: The representative proposal that we are dealing with deals with NPISHs and the costs associated with the concession fee incurred by these organisations for the use of communication equipment in rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health. The proposers propose that NPISHs be exempted from this concession fee. The Committee agrees that voluntary organisations make important contributions in a number of areas, including: in the case of rescue operations. It is therefore an overall committee that recognises and will support the important work being done here. Non-profit institutions have significant expenditures related to the purchase of goods and services, and organisations spend a lot of time and effort to obtain funds for the operation. It is important that the State supports the operational basis of non-profit institutions serving households and non-profit institutions serving households. An overall opposition shares the view of the proposers that an exemption from the concession fee for the use of interconnectors would be a good contribution to improving the economy of the organisations concerned. However, the parties to the government do not support the proposal, and they are, as it says, skeptical about eroding established public schemes by granting exemptions to individual groups. The majority will address these kinds of issues through general grant schemes. Furthermore, the majority believe that a derogation from NPISHs means that other actors have to finance their activities, all the while postal and telecommunications supervision is self-financing mainly through fees and charges. I have some understanding of this last argument from the government parties. But at the same time, the non-profit organisations are responsible for a very small proportion of the revenue from supervision. Thus, this should be able to solve easily without affecting other users. I have noticed that the government parties will also use direct grants as an instrument in this case, instead of allowing the organisations themselves to retain more of their own income. When the majority in the vote refers to the Government's promise of a further DKK 1 billion to volunteering, this is something they come with when it comes to tax relief for volunteering, whether it be VAT exemptions or other. But it's very unclear what this billion is going to do. All we know is that it should be given as a state grant. This billion they'll probably use many times. I therefore take up the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2954	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2957	The rapporteur-general presented the proposal fairly well. It's actually about some organisations doing a very good job, which, if you were to do this with government funds, made a public system, would probably cost a lot, much more than what the organizations receive in grants to do the work that's so important. It is clear that in rescue operations it would be impossible to use the life-saving equipment that exists, and then we think it is a little unreasonable that you should be required to pay about 2 million. kr in the fee to finance this important work. The working case rapporteur explained well to the matter, but I would like to comment – that is the background to the fact that I actually took the floor – this billion that the government parties are very good at boasting about every time you discuss this. We see the hopeless outcomes that the arrangements we have today give, among other things. with VAT. We felt that the Central Party, which had a national decision on this matter, decided less than five days later that the exact opposite of what was actually agreed at its national meeting, here in the Chamber, and made sure that there was no majority in favour of a system of exemption from VAT for voluntary teams and organisations. That's about the same thing we're discussing here. So here it's about making things a little bit easier for organisations. It is difficult to understand why taxes have to be paid for humanitarian work and to help people in need. And that's what this is all about. I also think it's a bit provocative that you always refer to the billion you're going to return to volunteer. When we know that only the loss of the gambling revenue is likely to result in approx. 2–2.5 billion kr net losses for voluntary teams and organisations in Norway are not going to be as good as 1 billion – so when you lose 2–2.5 billion kr net because you cannot compensate for this from the state. So that billion isn't that much to boast about, and I think it's sad that you couldn't be involved in this. I believe that most people who pay a fee to the Postal and Telecommunications Authority would think it was entirely right that certain types of organisations should not pay this concession fee. I agree that the arguments may be that everyone has to pay, but, as I said, this is a special kind of organization. Most people think it is important that they can actually continue this important work and that the motivation remains with the volunteers. Therefore, it would have been an incredibly good handshake to make sure to remove this fee. It is also the case that postal and telecommunications regulators have increased the fees quite sharply in recent years. At least there is no doubt that there should be room for supervision to reduce its expenditure by 2 million. kr, which is a very small proportion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2968	I want first of all to express the respect and admiration I feel for the Red Cross and all the others who work whole-heartedly to maintain safety and preparedness in the mountains and other places. They have members who give of themselves and leisure to say that anyone who drags into nature should know that if something goes wrong, skilled people will come on short notice to help them. In order for non-profit organisations to do this work in the best possible way and as quickly as possible, communication between the voluntary organisations and the regular emergency services is necessary. Such communication is largely done by means of a radio connection that communicates on a so-called closed network. In order to use a radio connection, a spectrum channel from the Postal and Telecommunications Authority is required. Spectrum is a restricted resource. Postal and telecommunications supervision manages and coordinates national and international spectrum management. In the creation of the Post and Telecommunications Authority, Stortinget decided that supervision should be self-financing, i.e. that the supervisory activities should be paid by those who use their supervision services. The fee regulation providing funding for the Post and Telecommunications Authority provides that the holder of spectrum rights for professional mobile radio – PMR – is to pay NOK 100000 for each network they have, and NOK 6250 for each 12.5 kHz channel that is disposed of. In Document No: The 8 proposal shows that the Red Cross pays an annual rate of charge for frequencies of about 10 %. 500,000 kroner. The organisations belonging to the Emergency Training Forum of Voluntary Organisations pay a total of approx. Two million. kr in the annual fee. The fee is part of the self-financing of the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The fees charged by supervision under the fee regulation are cost-oriented based on the average cost of the supervisory work on the various administrative areas. The basic principle is that all users should pay according to the actual costs of supervision in their field of work. Oversight includes: emphasis on the costs incurred in the matter in question and on the costs borne by each user responsible for the supervision, both directly and indirectly. If supervision were to exempt voluntary organisations from the obligation to pay fees, this would mean that other users would have to finance the activities of the voluntary organisations that might benefit from the exemption. It would be a solution that would clearly be contrary to the basic principle of cost-oriented self-financing on which supervision relies. There is currently no example of supervision granting such exemptions from the payment of a fee. I agree with those who have put forward the proposal that voluntary organisations make important contributions in a number of areas, including: in connection with rescue operations. It is clear that these organisations have a number of purchases of goods and services related to these activities, and there will therefore be questions about how they should be financed. It is therefore natural that a rather should consider looking at such funding schemes on a more superior and principled basis and look more closely at general support schemes towards voluntary organisations and on VAT exemptions. When it applies to the visit to the Central Party’s national meeting, it is absolutely firm. We're working to find good solutions for volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e2991	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3011	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3598]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3031	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3048	The national accounts for 2008 are divided into two. First of all, he contains a ransom account that shows the set of promises and the accounting for each entry in the government budget. There is also an overview of the permissions transferred from 2007 to 2008 for the items of expenditure and the permissions transferred from 2008 to 2009. The accounts also contain a capital account. In he finds an overview of the state's possessions. This part of the accounts is also covered by the liabilities and equity of the State. The message also contains an overview of the guarantee liability, the warranties and negotiating powers and a task over the axles owned by the State. Of the national accounts, one finds that the total revenue in 2008 was DKK 1 182.6 billion. The cost was NOK 778.6 billion. Then the loan transactions are not taken into account. The net receipts from the petroleum industry last year were NOK 415.9 billion. These revenues were transferred to the State pension fund — abroad, as required by the legislation. The oil-corrected deficit was NOK 11.8 billion. So some points that relate to the State pension fund. The fund's surplus last year was SEK 510.6 billion. Of these, the State pension fund – abroad amounted to DKK 505.3 billion. In total, the balance of the State pension fund was made up with a surplus of NOK 507.2 billion last year. At the end of last year, the book values of the State pension fund – abroad were NOK 2 279,6 billion. That's NOK 261.1 billion more than at the end of 2007. A current question would like to be: why is there a large surplus in the presentation of the State pension fund when 2008 has been the worst year in the fund's history? That is a legitimate and, in my opinion, also a sensible question. To say that the national accounts are carried out in accordance with incorporated practices. That includes, inter alia: changes in the valuation of property are not counted as income. State pension fund — Foreign countries had high incomes last year, for which I have already done well. The expenditure, except for the petroleum industry, last year was DKK 11.6 billion higher than expected in the national budget. The main explanation is that the cost of the population would be over $7 billion higher than expected, the compensation for the value added tax for municipalities would be $2 billion higher than expected, the health care allowance would increase by $4.2 billion, and other items would have been reduced by a net of approximately €2.2 billion. $2 billion. The national accounts show that revenues outside the petroleum industry were 36,2 billion DKK higher than expected in the national budget. The main explanation for this is that the tax intake was 30 billion dollars higher than estimated. The second major item that explains the increase in income is the dividends of axes of NOK 3.7 billion. The 2008 census is a very happy reading. It shows that our country has a very solid economy, and it must be a privilege for a finance minister to present such a document to the Stortinget. On this basis and in the light of the knowledge gained through St.meld. No 3 for 2008-2009 and the letter from the Minister of Finance, dated 29 May this year, it is a performance of the rarest that the Progress Party in the vote wrote: ‘These members are of the opinion that the 2008 government accounts document the government’s inability to manage Norwegian resources in the best possible way.’ I note that the Progress Party is, of course, isolated from its point of view in this matter, of course they are. The reason must be that the design lacks a factual reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3081	The national accounts receive little attention, in my opinion, too little attention, because it is an important document that can contribute to governance and recognition – i.e. a management tool. The oil-corrected deficit was DKK 24.6 billion lower than estimated in the 2008 national budget. As the rapporteur referred to, revenue is 36.2 billion kroner higher, while expenditure is only 11.6 billion kroner higher. It's a big anomaly, but it's not nice that it is. It's an accounting for a turbulent year, an accounting for a year that started with income increases that were phenomenal for the country in relation to the budgeted, and that ended with expenditure increases that were totally special. I am reasonably sure that this is the last year of a period of higher budgeted revenue than what will be the increases on the expenditure side. 2009 is going to be even harder, and not least 2010. We're in a year and we're going into a new year where there's a big difference between the budget and the accounts. What is then our job is to give good priority to government expenditure, that we are targeted at the expenditure we have, and stimulate long-term private behaviour, so that we can get through the turbulent period of a better-equipped country, by a teacher of the crisis you are going through, and thus ensure sound government finances in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3090	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3107	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3118	The 2008 credit notification provides a good presentation of the wide-ranging measures taken by the government in various countries to improve the situation in the financial market. There are also a number of measures taken in Norway. I'm not going to spend time commenting on all of these, but I'm just going to remind you that the development of the money market has at times been dramatic, and that it's been necessary for Norway Bank to go into extraordinary measures to ensure the functioning of the market. The situation is now in the process of normalising, although specific businesses report tightening credit and more expensive loans. The Norwegian economy is also the backbone of the recession, but less than most other countries. There are several reasons for that. While all demand towards industry falls in many countries, the petroleum sector in Norway is contributing to stabilising the economy. In addition, we have a relatively small industrial sector compared to countries such as the United Kingdom. Sweden and Germany, which are becoming much harder to cope with the international failure of demand. We also have a small financial sector, and Norwegian banks have little exposure to sub-prime loans – not least we have very sound government finances. As a consequence, we have followed the rule of action and not used the oil revenues without restraint, we now have the possibility to stimulate the economy even further when necessary. I would like to stress that the expansionary fiscal policy that is now being pursued is in line with the rule of action – not a violation of it, as some have claimed. Rather than conclude that the rule of action is irrelevant, as the Progress Party does, I agree with the Governor of the Central Bank, who, at the hearing of the Financial Committee on 14 May, stated that: ‘The rule of action as an anchor for fiscal policy in the longer term is immeasurably important.’.» It is little fruitful to make this a debate for or against market forces, or for or against regulation. There is no party – except perhaps the Progress Party – that thinks that the market is self-regulatory. However, there are differing views on how much and how financial markets should be regulated. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left seem to be most concerned that there must be a political framework that guarantees fair play rules and free competition. The government party believes that this is far from sufficient. The lot of progress shows in its note that: ‘The left side of Norwegian policy since the start of the financial crisis, in its propaganda, has proclaimed that the market economy is dead and that capitalism has failed’. This is a statement that I don't know about. Well-functioning markets in many cases lead to better resource use and greater well-being. However, it would often be desirable for different reasons to regulate the market. In the financial market area, regulation is important and necessary, including: due to systemic risk. If a large financial institution encounters problems, it will not only have consequences for the institution concerned, but for the financial system in the broadest sense. Breaking down the financial system, the real economy also becomes a framework. This risk has been clearly identified during the ongoing crisis. The recognition that financial markets in the world must be regulated — and in a better way than today — is quite different from proclaiming death over the market economy. At the heart of the Norwegian regulation of the financial market is the principle of a coherent and coherent regulation on capital adequacy. The Norwegian Financial Institution Code, unlike a number of other countries, is based on equal risks being treated equally. Therefore, banks, life insurance corporations and pension funds are subject to the same capital requirements regardless of the nature of the risk they take. Furthermore, our legislation makes it impossible for banks to circumvent capital requirements by securitisation lending. Another factor that can contribute to the reduction of the pooling of risks in the financial system is the non-recommendation of long-term risks. The party of progress claims that it is essentially the government’s regulations that have led to the financial crisis. Although the U.S. housing policy may have played a role, in my opinion it is an incorrect analysis. As I said, I think that the financial crisis has a number of complex reasons. However, I have no doubt that the lack of regulation of financial markets, not least in the United States, has contributed to a worsening of the crisis. According to the Credit Supervision, about half of the US financial market was unsupervised and capital requirements at the time of the crisis. For example, so-called securitisation — the issue of residential and immovable security securities — was: not regulated. In 2007 was 60 pst. of all US mortgages securitised. This contributed to uncertainty when it comes to where the financial system was at risk, leading to a crisis of confidence and a drought of capital between the banks. The party of progress seems to have a sometimes frightening belief that the market has a self-regulatory capacity. In the setting, it is shown that the market economy, unlike the planned economy, has the ability to correct errors and that it is just what happens when a experienced crack. Crisiss, according to the Progress Party, often clear up the economy and provide the basis for new growth. Politicians' task is to create a ground floor for optimism. I agree with the Progress Party that it is important that the governance facilitates innovation, and that the ability of the economy to convert is entirely decisive for how quickly we get out of the crisis. But I think it would be a serious mistake to follow the advice of the Progress Party and let the market settle even when the problems are as big as we now experience. The massive measures being put in place around the world show that no governmental powers – independent, in fact, of ideological and political standing – think this is the right recipe. Although Norway, compared with some other countries, has good and sound financial market regulation, there is every reason to look at how legislation can be made even better. I thought the governor made interesting contributions to this debate during the hearing with the committee. He first stated that the banks need more equity than they have today, so that they have ‘greater shock absorbers’, as he said, in bad times. This need is real, although the banks meet the existing statutory minimum capital adequacy requirements. Furthermore, he referred to an international discussion as to whether there should be countercyclical mechanisms embedded in the legislation. This could be an example. by increasing the capital requirement when the growth of the financial system is high. It will help to dampen the trend of cocyclical behaviour in the banking system. I share the opinion of the Governor of the Central Bank that before any such system is put in place, a thorough review of target formulation and responsibilities is important. I also agree that, in practice, we have a common Nordic financial market and that any changes must therefore be common to the whole Nordic region. I record that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are concerned that large parts of our export-right industry mark the international crisis through a strong fall, both in prices and demand. I share this concern. Unfortunately, we have politicians restricted the ability to influence the international demand for Norwegian goods. However, the economic policy we pursue could have major consequences for the development of interest rates and exchange rates. The change in the price of the crown directly enters the bottom line of Norwegian export companies. We must therefore be very careful to pursue a policy that can lead to higher interest rates and strengthened crowns. This relationship implies that we must conduct a responsible economic policy even in difficult times as we now experience. I expect that we will come back to this issue in depth in the debate on the revised national budget, which we will have here in the Chamber next Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3150	Given the year that has been set aside, the fluctuations we have experienced in the international economy and the challenges we have seen both internationally and nationally, there will certainly be some more attention to the credit notification and what is mentioned in the notification. I want to start with a few of the conditions that the Progress Party takes up in this setting. When we had a banking package II for treatment, the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition promoted a proposal in the Stortinget that we wanted the Government to inform the Stortinge in an appropriate manner on a regular basis about the activities related to the banking package II, as well as the status of the management of the fund's funds. That proposal was not adopted. The majority then just referred to the credit notification as an appropriate document to mention these funds and activities. I believe that little has been delivered in this credit message. And of course, given when the message is written, it might be hard to get too much on these funds. But it shows that we really needed our proposal, because then it will be a whole year to the next time there can be a reasonable response to the Storting about this huge package of DKK 100 billion. So I hope – and it is meant as a request to the Government – that you can get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when there is a development and you see how these bank packages actually meet. It is also part of the debate we are going to have in the context of the revision, where the Government is concerned to refer to the measures put in place and see how they work. But it is natural that Stortinget should receive a proper response to this. So to what is referred to by the rapporteur. Much of what the rapporteur says about these matters can also be joined by the Progress Party. For many years, there will be written dissertations about the origin and causes of the financial crisis that the world is now experiencing. But it's clear that there'll be shared views about the fasitization of that as well. I think the case rapporteur to some extent chose to interpret our comments negatively. There have been allegations from the pulpit that the Progress Party is more or less opposed to any regulation and wants a completely free market, free from regulation. I would like to remind you, as I have repeatedly done, that in the four years I have been on the Financial Committee, all matters relating to the regulation of the financial market have been unanimous, and there has been unanimous support in the Stortinget. So we've agreed on the level of the regulations you've had. The package of measures from the Government has also been unanimously adopted. It is clear that in Norway, where the country is a significant player in the market — not least a significant player in economic terms — it is quite natural that the country should use some of its economic muscles. I would like to refer to page 13 of the vote, where the members of the Progress Party write the following: ‘These members would stress that the solution is not necessarily more regulation, but correct regulation. ‘... Furthermore, we have also pointed out that financial markets are integrated across borders and that harmonisation of legislation may be necessary internationally. So the progress party is not against regulation. We believe that we should also have regulation on the financial market, so that consumers operating on this market get protection for their investments and purchases – in line with other markets. But we think it is important that there should be sensible regulation, that we should allow the market to function. I understood that the rapporteur was also concerned that the market economy was not dead here, but that a sensible approach should be taken to this. I'm glad. When we refer in our remarks to the fact that some left-wing politicians believe that the financial crisis was now the end of the market economy, it is according to national media opinions, mentioned by, among others. The party leader in SV, who thought that now it was the end of the market economy, as we know it. There have been such claims before. There were claims about it in the 1970s. There were claims about it in the 1990s, and they're coming now. Nevertheless, I note that in the perspective, in the state budget and in the visions of the Government, it is assumed that it will be a market economy in the years to come. I'm glad. I want to record a couple of other aspects that the Progress Party has mentioned in this setting. Firstly, we have our own comment and proposal relating to the Banking Insurance Fund and the financing and the scheme. In this setting, we have chosen to raise the question of whether it makes sense with today's system. Today's system is based on the fact that the borrowers fund the depositors' money. Therefore, we believe it is natural to look at changes in the rules that prevent this, as the present system, in our opinion, involves an unreasonable cross-subsidy. We are therefore promoting a proposal in the vote, which reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess regulatory changes that prevent bank borrowers from being required to fund the bank hedge fund to hedge depositors’ deposits. I noticed that we have not received any comments in the setting from anyone about it. We're also dealing with another suggestion. When the Finance Committee was in Spain and had a meeting with Santander, it was noted that the Spanish Credit Authority cooperated closely with the large banks in Spain. There was a scheme in which employees of the Spanish Credit Authority were seconded for, among other things. Santander – a system that we thought was very exciting. That is why we have made a proposal in the vote asking the Government to assess this scheme, whether this is a model that could be current in Norway – a model that we believe all parties, both banks, businesses and credit supervision, would benefit from. With this, I have promoted the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3180	The representative Ulf Leirstein has drawn up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3185	In this setting, the Progress Party claims that crises often clear up the economy. They provide the basis for new ideas to be created, and for new growth to emerge from such a situation. The task of politicians should be to love optimism, not to hinder innovation. That is how we need to understand the plight of the People of the Progress Party in the Financial Committee. Does the representative, Leirstein, think that it would really be both tactful and advisable to follow this recipe, and thus allow the market to clean up the economic crisis that we are now experiencing internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3192	Let me first remind the replicator that the Progress Party has joined the package of measures presented by the Government to the Stortinget, measures that have thus been unanimously endorsed in this Chamber. But it must be allowed to see also the possibilities in times of crisis. We know that up through history, very many of the big companies and many of the skilled entrepreneurs – including here in Norway – have been deprived of ideas in times of crisis. In times of crisis, it is released, among other things. a lot of labour. This applies to persons who may be given other types of jobs in other types of enterprises and thus contribute to a positive development in business other than those affected in times of crisis. It is also important that leaders around the world — including in Norway — do not intensify a crisis by speaking even worse than it actually is. That is why, through comments, the Progress Party has shown that it is important that we also see the possibilities in a crisis situation. But – as I said at the outset – we also agree that the state will provide some action packages and some measures. And we've joined it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3201	In the period that we have behind us, we know that the Progress Party has been guided by a programme in which they state that the capital market must be freed up and that there should be no regulation – or as little regulation as possible. So Leirstein points out that in practice the Progress Party has not followed up its own programme, but has voted with the other parties for regulation. Then, in the last few months – after the crisis has come to an end – we have heard that we do not need more regulation, but better regulation. It's a kind of statement that no one can disagree with. But when one reads the setting today, there are few new regulations the Progress Party proposes. So it could be exciting to get examples of what regulations the Progress Party will eliminate, and what new regulations we can expect the Progress Party to propose in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3209	What the Progress Party has said is that we do not necessarily need more regulation, but that we look at whether we can improve the regulations we already have. I registered that the representative of Bergo agreed with that statement – and then we are very much in agreement. There are no assessments of financial market regulation in connection with this Communication. But we know that the government has continually brought a number of issues to the Storting, and where we have made such assessments. It would be quite natural for us to follow-up on an ongoing basis when we get matters, not least when we also get a proper feedback on the status of the bank package I and the bank package II, if it is relevant to see if you can improve any of today's regulations. I understand that we agree quite well on the level of these regulations. It has probably also been achieved through the voting in this Chamber, where both the Progress Party and the SV – and all the other parties – have largely voted in favour of the regulations we per. the date of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3218	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3221	I will try not to extend the debate unnecessarily. The debate on which the credit notification is based is a subject which has been discussed by the Financial Committee several times in the last few months, which will probably come up in a week — and definitely also in the coming months. I am of the opinion that the rapporteur, Mr Sandal, made a relatively balanced contribution. I agree with a lot of what he said. Let me draw out two ratios here. It concerns the conclusion, the importance of pursuing a responsible economic policy. Perhaps especially in the times we are in now, it is important that economic policy helps us to get out of the economic crisis and that we do not create problems for competitive activities. Secondly, I also agree with what he said that it is unnecessary to make this debate a debate for or against the market, for or against public governance. That was well said, and I agree. Let me add some notes. One is that it is important that Norway also contributes to the avoidance of protectionism in international forums and ensuring globalisation and a social market economy. When I underline this, it's because it's very easy to say to avoid protectionism. It is more difficult to put it into practice when unemployment increases and the pressure on national authorities and national politicians to maintain national jobs comes on the agenda. It is therefore very important that international forums stress the importance of this, and that Norway contributes to that process. Protectionism is something that will reinforce the crisis we are in, and quickly leads us from recession to depression. The second thing I want to stress is the importance of the economic crisis, the financial crisis, not only being allowed to – I would say – blow over, but using the economic crisis to look ahead. It is obvious to me that once the economy is globalized, policy must also follow. Then we can always discuss how much politics, how much governance, and how much framework conditions, but it is obvious that there must be a framework for the market. For the Right, it is important that we contribute nationally to the strengthening of Norway out of the crisis, to the future-oriented jobs, to the transition to a more sustainable economy and sustainable jobs, and to the international contribution both to a better framework for financial institutions and to the economic function and to stronger international institutions. The last time the rapporteur was present was a reference to the decisions taken to contribute to a more positive development in the Norwegian financial markets. There I agree that the decisions that have been made have been good. But still the feedback from many small and large companies is that it's hard to get credit, and that it's hard to get a loan. So I would like to stress that the government still needs to have an ongoing assessment of the need to strengthen the instruments in place so that businesses and jobs avoid excessive damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3237	Right-wing policy driven by right-wing politicians around the world is what has created the financial crisis we are now facing. Hayek's theories that only one left the market completely free – as it is so beautifully formulated in the programme of the Progress Party – were the spontaneous words to put in place systems that worked. This is wrong, and it has been proven by the financial crisis, as it unfolds in front of all of us. Ronald Reagan was wrong, Alan Greenspan was wrong, and Siv Jensen's own idol, Margaret Thatcher, was wrong. And now we see the consequences. Thus, market fundamentalism with this is dead, and what we have to provide is to show that politics stands for more governance, as stated on the front page of Newsweek a few months ago: «We are all socialists now». That's what's the right direction to move on – left-hand policy, now running after and embraced by more and more parties, including on the right-hand side, like the kind of policy we have to follow. One of the causes of the financial crisis has been overly low interest rates over a long period of time. Let's say this: Jan Tore Sanner has also admitted this in a previous debate on the Stortinget, which is exactly what I just said, that too low interest rates over too long is a cause of the financial crisis. But it has been difficult to understand the way Sanner has behaved, because in every single debate on the interest rate that has been conducted between the right and the left of Norwegian policy ever since we took over, he has been there and said that it is the Government's fault that interest rates are rising. They have been guided by a policy of lowest interest rates — low, stable interest rates. This is one of the causes of the financial crisis. There is no doubt that in Norway, including the Central Bank, we have led a policy of low interest rates, need to be discussed and debated in the professional communities today, precisely because we are in a situation where we import low inflation from countries like China, and where one has a low interest rate policy, a zero interest rate policy – as in Japan over a very long time. It influences Norwegian policy, European policy, and policies in all other countries that pursue an interest rate policy based on inflation targets, and it helps to create the financial crisis we are up against. In extending this, we should review monetary policy and discuss how we can avoid being left in a situation where informed central bank managers around the world are pursuing a policy of low interest rates. Then the head of the central bank has done an honest job. Repeated Times, including in consultations within the Financial Committee, he has said that Norway’s Bank has frequently expressed that if a greater proportion of the housing funding had been financed with a fixed interest rate, it would have created better stability. Systemically, this would be a better system — more fixed rates in Norway. It was no later than today an article in Today's Business that argued why it would be good. It has two positive sides. It would create more stability for households, for most people's economy, in times of high interest rates, but also in times like this. And there's no doubt that if people had related to an interest rate of between 5 and 7 pst. when buying a dwelling, it would lead to more stable housing prices and more stable construction policies, which is one thing we will discuss later here today. This would therefore contribute to stability. And we have a job to do to review and look at what we can do to increase the spread of fixed-rate loans in Norway. Finally, on the International Monetary Fund. I – and SV – are very pleased with the work that the Government has done with regard to the International Monetary Fund in the last year, i.e. since the last time we dealt with this message. So we've done a job to ensure increased voting to low-income countries and to middle-income countries at the expense of the rich countries. We have made sure to do a real job of looking at, reviewing and asking critical questions about the role of the IMF in low-income countries through the PRGF system that exists. The consequence of this is now — and we are going to deal with it later this year — that we will not be financing further new loans for that scheme, and instead find other mechanisms to support the poor countries, simply because the IMF is doing a poor job for the poor countries, because they are unable to develop. So this is good work from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3267	The message to the representative Holmås was that we need to get more control, more regulation and more socialism – then everything will be fine. It was not so much concrete that came out now, except that one must have a higher interest rate – and it is well to the extent that it is unproblematic for the representative Holmås, whom I have seen tied up their loans. But I could imagine getting a concrete idea of what regulations it is the representative Holmås wants, as well as that one must get a higher interest rate. Could you mention a few of these regulations that the representative Holmås mein is needed to avoid the financial crisis for the future and perhaps avoid downtime? It would be very interesting to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3272	The President will remind you that all speeches are to be passed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3275	If the representative Hagesetter has spent four years discovering that I have a fixed interest rate, which I've been talking about at every meeting we've had here in the last few years, it's going a little slow. But not so slowly – I look at him. To the issue of regulation: Yes, I would like to mention that. Carl I. Hagen wrote a beautiful letter in which he praised the American policy, and said that here should have had less regulation, because then everything had gone well. The largest commercial banks in the United States, some of them that were the reason why it all went down, had borrowed 30 to 40 times its equity. There is no doubt that one has limitations, as we do in Norway, for example. has a much greater share of equity, is important. Gjermund Hageseter has been eager for financial paradises, tax havens, because he believes that there is something that creates healthy tax competition. Tax havens are primarily places where one has the ability to hide criminal businesses and which create less transparency in the financial system. Regulations of tax havens are one last thing, and another thing and a third thing... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3282	I don't have to ask you what the third thing is, because it's fixed interest. But back to the fixed rate: the representative Holmås is a sworn follower of it. I have understood that even the SV, with Holmås at its head, will go as far as to give extra tax deductions to those who have fixed interest rates. It is not every day that you go in for personal taxes in SV. So I was simply wondering how the Government and the SV work to provide incentives, so that more people choose fixed interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3289	SV and I have focused on the same thing as the central bank says: it would have been positive with more fixed interest rates in Norway. In the SV program, it's very clear that we want a larger share, and we want to look at what kind of incentives it's possible to use to get more people to choose the fixed rate. One of those instruments is a fiscal instrument, to provide tax relief, but we're very open to it if Hans Olav Syversen has other and better instruments that can contribute to more fixed interest rates. The job we've done in the last few years has been to open up the Loan Fund and the House Bank to 10 years of fixed interest. A job has been done now that from 1 July, we have the opportunity to raise a 20-year fixed rate loan in the House Bank, which is the banks over which the State has direct control. There's no doubt that if you look at the mortgages, they're much more funded with fixed rates than what you see, for example. in the case of new loans. But I'm open to looking at the tools that help. For me, the goal is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3296	If the representative Holmås had listened to what Right says in interest rate debates, he would have heard that we are talking about the financial policy's responsibility for interest rates. It'll never be suspended. It must be the responsibility of those who rule. I understand the representative's need for strong results both against the market economy and other, for his case-rapporteur and Mr Reidar Sandal put on a completely different tone. I do not find this in the comments either. I would like to ask the same question as the representative Lund Bergo asked to the Progress Party: What are the concrete regulations that SV sees for itself, and what is proposed in this position? Unlike the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which proposes some countercyclical measures, we see nothing of it from the government parties. What are the concrete proposals from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3303	I have not finished the proposals now. There's a job done in the United Nations, which, among other things. Josef Stiglitz has led a commission that looks at and proposes a number of opportunities to create more stability, both on the regulatory side and on the tools side. In relation to the work done by the EU, we have the de la Rosière Rapproten, which is a high-level report, which promotes a good number of regulatory proposals and opportunities to supervise at a higher level, which can ensure more consistent and stronger regulation in these areas. I believe that being ahead of each other and promoting proposals that can contribute to countercyclicality in the financial industry is a form of regulation, and in the context of the foreplay of the financial crisis, there is a clear indication that the market is functioning cyclically rather than countercyclically. But the exact regulation must come back to the extension of what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3313	The credit notification refers to the assumptions for financial stability in Norway, an assessment of the exercise of monetary policy in Norway in the last year and an activity interview by the central bank, which is required by law. The last year has shown that economic realities can turn rapidly and brutally. The whole world is now experiencing a sharp decline not only in economic growth but in gross domestic product. Norway, which has had a very high economic growth over the last few years, which has resulted in a strong economic upturn, is also aware of the impact of the real economic crisis on the body. A number of export industries are in a very demanding situation, currently being the woodworking industry. The credit risk of banks is largely linked to the development of the housing market. Until last year, Norwegian households had increased indebtedness, a longer average maturity of loans and a greater spread of non-debt loans, making borrowers more at risk from a sharp fall in housing prices. Last autumn, high interest rate increases were the challenge. Credit risk is now linked to the development of unemployment. The confidence crisis in the financial market is a result of longer-term policy choices, while the cause and effect may be difficult to understand. The crisis has been triggered by international deregulation originating in the United States. The US economist Jan Kregel has shown that new regulatory regimes have been exempt from banks ‘a lot of their old function as risk assessors and managed banks and brokerage houses to now specialize in putting together ‘packages’ of financial instruments and making their money to sell them, while not even performing their traditional role as risk assessors or risk managers themselves. These risky packages are not part of the asset side of the bank accounts after they have been sold». This is how the risk was borne by credulous buyers and society as a whole. The lifting of the Glass-Steagall Act in the United States in 1999, the law separating commercial banks and investment banks, together with the lifting of the equity limit of US investment banks in the spring of 2004 and the enormous growth in insurance against credit risk in the last few years, have contributed to the large scale of the initial financial crisis. Credit risk insurance proved to be highly co-cyclical. The problems of last year's harvest in the world's largest insurance company, AIG, were particularly related to a subsidiary that had sold credit risk insurance in large quantities. Without State intervention, any bankruptcy in the AIG would have a major impact on the world's capital markets. I would therefore like to stress how important it becomes for financial stability in the future that insurance companies keep to insure life and property rather than credit risk. At the same time, banks must strengthen their task of assessing risk. There has been a great deal of creativity in recent years about the creation of ever-new forms of financial and credit companies and financial products, where the authorities have been systematically in arrears in regulation. This has contributed to increasing risk and thus greater instability, and must in future be given new and reinforced attention by the regulatory authorities. This speaks for a far more proactive legislative role. Today's Business Today, Nordea-chef Gunn Wærsted says the following: ‘Some things will never be like before again.’ And on the other hand, ‘Dead low-cost loans. Adjourn, small banks with enormous ambitions. Adjourn, ‘gross’ bonus systems. At the same time, a number of new things are emerging, she thinks: Good old-fashioned banking. Strengthen supervision and control. Increased internationalisation.’ Yes, these are important headlines in the work of the new financial crisis commission that the Government is about to appoint. In today's business, Gunn Wærsted also asks if she should point her finger at someone after the crisis, who it is to. Her answer is: ‘It does not reach with one finger. I need my whole hand. Everyone needs to be self-contained: banks, authorities, credit rating agencies, but also customers.’ That is, in my opinion, a wise answer. We are facing a systemic crisis both internationally and nationally. Internationally, the United Nations Commission led by Joseph Stiglitz has provided its investigation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. This will be addressed at the UN early in the autumn and high expectations will be placed on the results of that work. The government’s financial crisis commission must do a thorough job based on national circumstances and needs, but with a strong emphasis on analysing the nature of the international crisis. This will facilitate major system changes that I hope will come, and therefore we will have a more stable credit and financial system in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3366	I'm not going to try to help pull up the temperature in the debate. After nine hours of wanting and dreaming about how roads and tracks should be laid in this country, there may not be any basis for spending too much time on such big questions as what we have up now in this evening. I think that sometimes it can be that the most important things should not be the victims of the greatest debates and games in this room. But I still want to say a little bit about this which seems to be a little ideological debate between the extreme left and the extreme right, about who is best in dealing with the market economy. I would say, as a centre politician, that the answer is neither on the right side nor on the left, but there are balanced solutions that lay a good political framework around a market economy. Should you ask yourself questions about how to eliminate the market economy, if someone had to have such desires and dreams, I think it's pretty easy to cut out all the regulation. A non-regulatory market economy will only destroy itself. That way, the actors will avoid competition by buying each other up, and in that way we will lose the market. So any market economy will require sensible and good regulation, and as much regulation as is necessary, and that makes the market work. I believe that in the situation we are in now, when we are in the midst of a financial crisis and try to have some assessments of what we are going to do further, it will be about how we are going to regulate – perhaps more, but at least better, to ensure that the market economy, not least in the financial field, will work better in the future. We're processing the credit notification. I think it might be so interesting to deal with the credit notification in one, two or three years, where we'll learn more clearly what we've learned from this crisis. Now we're in the middle of it, and it's pretty bland from many people about where the road goes, other than that there's a road that's not the way back. I'm going to contribute some strings in that context. I think we are going to have a completely different debate on monetary policy in Norway from what we might have had so far, precisely because of the need to find the reasonable balance between promoting price stability, which is an important part of the mandate of the Bank of Norway today, and promoting financial stability. One can see situations where this can, in effect, stand against each other and to some extent be conflicting interests. I think it will be important in the future in the debate on monetary policy. There seems to be a broad consensus, in an international context, on how we use the IMF and strengthen the IMF. It's going to be pretty central, and I think it'll be broad, cross-political consensus in Norway to contribute to it. We need more global policies in a situation where the global economy turns out to need clearer frameworks. The last area that I think we're going to work a lot on the next few years, as a follow-up to this, is the question of what we're going to do differently in regulation. I have addressed this in the other debates we have had in the middle of crisis management, that I think we need to look at some things here. The left says something about it in notes, both with others and alone. The most important thing is to be able to contribute to countercyclical capital requirements, which I think are going to become relevant, and which the committee itself learned a little about when we were on a study trip to Spain, which has just had it, and which seems to have managed to take its banking business surprisingly well through the crisis so far, despite the fact that the country is in a dramatic crisis – and of course the issue of regulating, through law and by other means, equity and more equity access to the banks. We need more and better regulation. We've pointed out some directions from the opposition. I also hope that the Government in its further work will address these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3381	Many of the conditions mentioned in the 2008 credit notification are those that we have previously experienced in the Storting because there has been an extraordinary situation. So maybe it's not so strange that the temperature doesn't rise to the big heights, as we approach midnight. But let me just make a few brief comments, because I share the representative Sponheim's view that the 2008 credit report is historical. But it is enough for the next year and the year after that that you will have so much evidence on the table that you can become more bombastic in the conclusion of what is the right, if any, new governance. Just a few comments on the debate first: no one, as I know, has believed that the market economy as such would be abolished after this financial crisis. I fully agree with the chairman of the committee, Mr Sandal, in that perspective. But at the same time, it can be said with a broad pen that the market fundamentalists, those who have believed that markets regulate themselves, those who have in a way resorted to the ideological direction, have been wrong. Not least, we see this in the debate in various international forums, where we are now looking to coordinate, co-operate and find global and international rules that can be involved in precisely giving a counterbalance to an increasingly globalised world economy. That a crisis that starts in the United States can have so great consequences in the rest of the world, in Europe, in our neighbouring countries, says something about the need for close international cooperation in this area. So to an observation on the fixed rate, where I see that both one and the other have points of view. One is the governor, and the other is Heikki Holmås. I don't think there's any reason why some members of the finance committee are going to flirt with it, because it's really quite remarkable how many borrowers in Norway have floating interest rates. Circa. 5 pst. of the mortgage borrowers in Norway have fixed interest rates. In Sweden it is 60 pst., and in Denmark it is 45 pst. It has the function that the reductions in interest rates of the Bank of Norway are increasing faster and more directly in relation to household demand. As we see it, we have a more effective monetary policy in such a situation as it is now. But that also means that the representative Holmås stressed, namely that the way we finance housing is helping to build up under the significant fluctuations that are in the housing market in terms of housing prices, and that makes people more vulnerable to significant fluctuations in interest rates. But that's part of the discussion about this. So some of the things that have been central during this year. After all, we have implemented comprehensive measures in the banking sector, first in terms of liquidity. I guess a lot of people didn't realize how close you were to a collapse in the financial systems this fall. Norway’s Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Stortinget were quickly in place with measures that allowed us to move in these markets again. They're not quite back to normal, either in terms of impact or otherwise. Through this exchange mechanism, where Stortinget gave an authorisation to use NOK 350 billion, it is now auctioned for NOK 130 billion. It can be said that those measures have helped to ensure that liquidity problems are mitigated and avoided. Since then, we have made further efforts, including: by the State Financial Fund. It is at the earliest made to have a lot of information about how the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund have actually worked. However, it is quite obvious that the Financial Committee will be provided with all the information they want – even before the next credit notification, if necessary. It is also obvious that if we find weaknesses or new challenges in this area, we are ready to get back to the Storing with it. But I might call out a little warning because it's more expensive for business to finance now. I hear many examples of business leaders saying they lack funding for projects. On the one hand it is possible to obtain funding, but they think it is too expensive, on the other hand there may be projects that are poor now, but that were also poor two years ago. So the reality here might be a little bit more complex. Much of the discussion going on internationally is really about getting international financial regulation standards that are very similar to what we have at national level. What is one of the themes is, for example: single supervision, not fragmentation or sector-specific supervision, but single supervision for the whole financial sector. That is what we have in Norway, which means that we have effective supervision of our financial sector, and that is that all the risks should be regulated in principle equally across the board. That means there's no place to hide risks in such a way, as we've seen has been the cause of the financial crisis in many other places. This means, for example: Norwegian pension funds, life insurance corporations, etc. are subject to capital adequacy requirements on capital management risks. Credit institutions issuing covered bonds are subject to capital adequacy requirements in line with banks. It's the kind of example that's good regulation. This has clearly contributed to the strength of Norwegian financial institutions. It is also the case that the group law we have for financial groups contributes to the overall capital requirements for financial groups, and it discourages the fact that any problems in one group company also easily lead to problems for other group companies. Nor is it a matter of course in the legislation of other countries. There is a clear need for significant international cooperation in this context, and I agree with those who have raised the issue of whether the regulation vis-à-vis the banks is co-cyclical, and the desire to look at regulation that makes it more countercyclical. There are also themes in international work that are currently underway, and are of the things we can learn from following this financial crisis. What also has to be part of learning are bonus systems and pay systems, which in themselves have worked in the way that we have had so-called leadership incentives, which have led many leaders to take very high risks with very short-term horizons. The discussion on how to achieve pay systems that are not in themselves involved in destabilising or encouraging the taking of that type of risk is a very important and important debate. It's not just about fair distribution, it's about the level of pay you have. It is simply a matter of having very unhealthy incentives in a financial sector. In Norway, the financial crisis has been much less dramatic than in many other countries. In part, this is due to the regulations that I have been subject to. On the one hand, it is because the lessons learned from the banking crisis we had in the early 1990s are in the hands of the regulatory authorities. It also sits in both walls and heads of many of the bankers themselves, and agrees to explain that so far we have not experienced the same drama that many other countries have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3409	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3412	At the hearing of the Committee in connection with the credit notification, the Governor of the Central Bank, in connection with this, which was also the subject of the Minister of Finance, said about the situation of Enterprise Norway with regard to obtaining loans. He said the following: ‘I also expressed some disappointment that the banks are still operating and tightening, but we have a hope that this will stabilize beyond spring and summer.’ My question to the Minister of Finance is whether she also feels some disappointment at the way the banks have behaved towards Business Norway when it comes to lending to what could be called normal business operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3422	Well, I think that's the way to say that the lending market for personal customers works reasonably normally, but we have challenges in business. That's absolutely right. I agree with what the governor says. I think we just have to be careful to nuance the picture every time we get some examples presented to us, and that probably makes both members of the finance committee and myself constantly. But it is in the bank's own interest through its legislation to contribute in such a way that their own customers are not unnecessarily affected by the financial crisis. If there is a lack of loans and opportunities to finance new businesses, or for expensive loans, include, for example: increasing the number of bankruptcies, the banks are not unaffected by it. On the contrary, the banks also suffer significantly greater losses than they would otherwise have. So my appeal to the banks is that they think in the long term, and that they also think of their own handling of business customers as having a bearing on what kind of losses they can get in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3429	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3432	I think the stock exchange is going to go up tomorrow, at least if one takes account of this debate, because here everything indicates that the market has calmed down and is about to turn around. I think that's very pleasant and nice. I also think it has been a fine debate. What has been most surprising in this debate and in the setting is the fundamental distance the Progress Party now takes in relation to its great model, America, and criticises the authorities that have done. The representative Leirstein clarified in his post that he was very much in agreement with the Government, and that made me even a little more surprised. But now I saw on the list of speakers who's coming after me, so maybe we'll get the extremes of the Progress Party in terms of economic policy. What is important, however, in relation to the challenges we are now facing, as I see it, is that we manage to keep a krone price and an interest rate that makes the competitive industry not have to decline. It is an industry that has major challenges, and that has marked the financial crisis very well. It is therefore also possible to see in the wording that even the Left, which will impose high taxes on industry, is now positive in emphasising that competitively exposed industries will have working conditions in Norway. I don't think I'm going to spend so much more time on this debate, but say that it must have been an unusually good governance of financial policy in recent years. One looks at the challenges facing other countries versus Norway. That's very good. And since I don't get any lines either, I may not have to explain my positions so thoroughly, without saying that after this debate we all seem to be social democrats.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3448	First, to the representative of Klungland. It is rare that he manages to spend time not criticizing the Progress Party. It would have been interesting if he could try to make a little more substance and a contribution to the debate, and not just criticise others. It would have been interesting from Klungland's side as well. I'll talk a little bit about the background and causes of the financial crisis. Today I attended the Throne-Holst Conference. There were not many of my colleagues present. I actually think you would have benefited from being there. So it was ‘Life after the financial crisis’. And then you would have gotten a little bit more stuffed up to all of the classic arguments you're repeating from here. In order to understand the measures to be taken, it is necessary to understand how the financial crisis arose. Then you actually have to read something. You have to read some documents and books and get into it. There is only one in this Chamber who has done so, and that is the representative of Lundtigen. He tries to get into it, but he doesn't go far enough back in history. He comes first to the investment banks, and then he goes on from there. I find it strange to observe my fellow colleagues who repeat writings from the VG, the Daily and quote old slogans, instead of trying to figure out what this is actually due to. I see that the Council of State is standing behind trying to hide and try to teach – yes, she's laughing and smiling right now as well. I think the Council of State should stick too well to that. The financial crisis arose in the United States. The premise for the financial crisis was that the savings were low, private debt increased, government budget deficits, trade deficits – at the same time, the US had to finance two warriors – there was artificially low interest rates that created a lot of liquidity in the market, and loans had been tied to housing largely across the United States. To show some history, I'm going to go back to September 30, 1999 and quote something in English from an article in The New York Times. It could find the representative Holmås on the web or elsewhere and print out. That's what it says. «Fannie Mae Eases Credit To Aid Mortgage Lending...In a move that could help increase home ownership rates among minorities and low-income consumers, the Fannie Mae Corporation is using the credit requirements on loans that it will purchase from banks and other countries. The action, which will begin as a pilot program involving 24 banks in 15 markets – including the New York metropolitan region – will encourage those banks to extend home mortgages to individuals whose credit is generally not good enough to qualify for conventional loans. Fannie Mae officials say they hope to make it a nationwide program by next jump." And they did. «Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest underwriter of home mortgages, has been under increasing pressure from the Clinton Administration to expand mortgage loans among low and moderate income people». This is a two-page article, and I recommend that everyone read it. It was very wise there. So we had a situation where it was a social policy goal to be able to give more Americans the opportunity to raise mortgages. Clinton maintained its popularity, despite the creative use of cigars and smoking marijuana without inhaling. This is not necessarily due to a lack of regulation, but political review of US 12 000 regulators only at federal level and seven credit supervision. Loans were subsequently granted to people with low or no equity, who also had no ability to operate these loans. The only way they could operate the loans was for the housing price to rise, and they could refinance their loans. And housing prices went up eight years in a row by 15 pst. i average. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought mortgage bonds in fines and buckets, and they sold further parts of the debt to investment banks like J.P. Morgan, Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, for a mortgage is a future interest income. These investment banks packaged about these loans into so-called structured products. The contents were both good and bad papers. They were sold worldwide, also to municipalities in Norway. But not enough of that, the investment banks insured against the default of loans, called "Credit Default Swaps" in the United States' largest insurance company, AIG. The AIG was again exposed to large European banks, which – and there is a lack of regulation – through subsidiaries also stationed on Cayman Islands. Everything went brilliant as long as the housing prices increased. More and more people were given housing loans, finance peaks were given big bonuses, stock exchanges were increased, politicians were re-elected and the central bank manager was genius-dressed. But then the housing prices began to fall, and the bubble burst. If we can agree on the historical facts, we can also agree on the necessary structural measures. The U.S. had great deficits and survived. China was willing to finance the American Purchasing Party. Politicians tried to manipulate the market by forcing housing credit institutions Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to provide more people with residential credit. It was accepted, because then the bonus and stock exchange party could continue. Structured products were introduced, sold and insured. Thousands of institutional customers around the world discovered that they had bought the cats in the bag. Trust – and that’s exactly what’s central – in the financial market disappeared overnight. The NIBOR and LIBOR rates rose dramatically. Finally, it was not possible to borrow money across borders at all. When confidence in market financial products disappeared, the crisis spread very quickly. Then came all the absolutely necessary action packages around the world – and in Norway we have had two banking packages. Global trade, on which Mr Sanner was also involved, has evolved and expanded at a huge pace, while the so-called driving rules for international trade are still national. It's a big challenge. They are going to be just as the action packages often are: national and protectionist per capita. definition, and so is the issue of regulated governance of international trade, difficult as far as supervision is concerned. We therefore need international driving rules for global trade. We need to make it harder to put risk on others. You have to be responsible for the risk you take and not push it on others. It is not easy to find and define how to do it within a regulatory framework or regulation. Defining a rule from a code is also not very easy. We need transparency, we need free flow of information, and the information has to benefit all the players in the market at the same time. That is, we need proper regulation, not necessarily more regulation. My advice to the council in her quest for a number of populist plays both in the media and elsewhere is: don't do what the market does best, don't hinder supply and demand in the market. We have to have that as a premise when we make any adjustments. If you prevent it, you prevent trade, and you prevent growth and prosperity, and then you get some kind of plan economy, even if you can define it differently from plan economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3488	I can promise that what I am going to say, I will take on Norwegian, and I will not have a high rent because then we can have trouble with the neighbours. The annual credit notification provides the Storting with very useful information on developments in the financial market in the previous year. Then, not least, the communication is a loving opportunity to debate different aspects of the financial market both nationally and internationally. It is natural that much of the debate is about the international financial crisis and the impact on our own country. I would like to take the opportunity to address some domestic issues that have been addressed by different sections of the opposition in their comments and suggestions in the vote. One concerns the credit supervision and composite savings products, to which the Christian People's Party and the Left have comments. The second is the relationship between the credit supervision and the banks, to which the Progress Party has both suggestions and comments. The Christian People's Party and the Left focus on the fact that, despite the fact that Norway has more comprehensive and stricter regulation of financial markets than many other countries, we have experienced unfortunate situations with complex products, and on the other hand that the Government has not shown an interest in looking critically at the warnings that have come in recent years. It is true that the creativity for selling savings products has been large and clearly limited to fraud in some contexts, but claiming that the government has not shown an interest in stopping this is directly wrong. The government, with Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen at the head, has carried out a strong tightening of the legislation. As a result, the ‘raw sale’ of these unintended and complex products has been stopped. For example, the information requirement has been reinforced both in the autumn of 2006 and in the new year 2008. A number of investor protection provisions of the Securities Code have been transferred to the sale of such products by financial institutions. It is also the case that, following the implementation of the MiFID Directive, investment advice has become a compulsory service and disclosure requirements have been strengthened. With regard to the credit supervision, it is not as claimed in the notes that the supervision has authorised composite products. The supervision does not carry out a general product review and approval activities. The supervision has been active in the process of tightening up the sales and advisory obligations of financial institutions with regard to the products they sell through regulatory changes and guidelines. The supervision has also focused on so-called non-professional customers in relation to composite products. The work of the credit supervision has clearly led to the cessation of debt financing for such products. The Progress Party makes provision both for comments and proposals to ensure that staff members of the Banking Authority are placed in the banks, in order to improve the interaction between supervision and banks and better information flow, as they say in their comments. I don't think such a scheme would be useful in Norway. Firstly, the supervision of Norwegian banks and other financial institutions by the credit supervision works well. Unlike many other countries, Norway has a comprehensive financial regulation and supervision covering the whole financial sector. Credit supervision is active in the field of local supervision and access to the file of all financial institutions. Internationally, the main challenge is weak regulation and not least fragmented supervision. It has been a significant contribution to our having such a strong international crisis. Today, EU and international processes are taking action to improve financial regulation and supervision of financial institutions. The main challenge is not that there is too poor interaction between the credit supervision and banks in Norway, but that financial markets are international and that many actors operate in many countries. The most important thing is that regulation is not locked to borders, but that we have a comprehensive system that can operate across borders and continents. It is important to arrive at an internationally binding comprehensive regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3535	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3553	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given after the speeches of the main speakers of each group and three lines of reply after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3562	We are now dealing with Document No. 8:83, by Robert Eriksson, Ulf Leirstein and Gjermund Hagesetter, on the exemption of property taxation for certain types of very special assets relating to the compensation of accidents or sickness and assets managed by the Overforty. In both cases, this applies to children and young people up to the age of 21. The vote will take place at the next voting time. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left, are: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes in the tax law §4-22, so that persons with a disability down to 15 per cent are exempted from property tax on the amount of compensation.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left, are: ‘The Government requests the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes to the Tax Act so that assets managed by the Oversight Authority are exempted from property taxes.’ The proposal for a reduction in the default rate is rejected by the majority, which consists of the government parties, on the grounds that wealth is taxable regardless of age or origin. Low age alone is not a good reason for a tax exemption. Moreover, the return on wealth would normally cover the cost of taxes on wealth. So you don't eat the money itself. The majority further argue that the tax burden is taken into account when measuring the compensation. If the value tax on claims is removed, it is likely that the amounts will be reduced accordingly. Each year, 1000 people are receiving treatment for the injury suffered. In 2008, Norwegian compensation for patients paid less than 660 million. kr in compensation for expenses, loss of income and but. Children and young people up to the age of 21 are exempt from taxes on wealth if the damage involves 50 pst. a reduction in the acquisition capacity. For those who have less than 50 pst. impairment of the ability to acquire, property taxes are paid. This is the illogical part of today's system, with which the minority is trying to do something. The proposal is primarily about harmonising the requirement of disability in order to be compensated and to be exempted from taxes on wealth. Today, the claim for compensation is 15 p.m. disability, while the requirement to exempt property taxes is 50 pst. disability for children and young people up to the age of 21. The majority argue that the scheme is logical because the need for exemption is highest in the case of injuries leading to high levels of disability. Should the logic of this statement have been followed, then a classified tax exemption rule should have been introduced based on the degree of disability. In addition, the scheme seems to be incomprehensible to many because it is perceived by relatives that the amount of compensation is reduced year by year. The calculation of the amount of compensation shall be subject to a charge for income and wealth taxes, but for those children and their dependants, who, after mistreatment and loss of health care, have a difficult enough daily life, this legislation appears unfair. For some people it could be a thousand dollars per. years, which could have been used for better help and a better life when children really need it. The second non-proprietary proposal for assets managed by the Superior Authority is rejected by the majority, consisting of the governmental parties and the Christian People's Party, on the grounds that such discrimination can easily lead to tax planning by transferring wealth to minors only for the purpose of saving taxes on wealth. – With respect to reporting, I have to say that this is a very bureaucratic and ministerial approach to which cases are largely managed by the Oversight Authority. Often this is tragic fate, where one or both parents are either unauthorized or dead. Arguing with tax planning in this case is reasonably palatable. If you are really concerned about tax planning, this can easily be solved by raising the financial limits when the Oversight Agency enters, in line with the document proposed by the undersigned and Odd Einar Dørum, who have been under treatment and who have asked the Minister of Justice for an overall increase. Unfortunately, there is little leverage to track from the Ministry of Justice in this matter. Quite independently of the view on taxes on wealth more generally, legislation in these areas appears to be not appropriate. I believe, like the proposers, that today's rules give illogical impressions that were hardly intended in the design of today's legislation and that, in sum, contribute to undermining the legitimacy of the entire tax system. I finally take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3594	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3597	Sponheim, who is the rapporteur on the matter, has given a good account of the matter and, in particular, has explained the views of both the majority and the minority in this matter, but nevertheless I choose to repeat the arguments we have. The proposal deals with groups with which, of course, we can easily sympathise. Just as fully, it's right to have a principle approach to this issue, and I think that especially with regard to taxes, it's wise to have such an approach, even if it can be perceived as bureaucratic, as Sponheim was about. At the same time, we need to ensure a principle approach without too many tax gaps. In general, wealth is taxable, regardless of the reason for such wealth, for example: age or origin or other. Low age alone is at least no good justification for tax exemptions. Moreover, the return on wealth will normally cover the cost of taxes on wealth. So you don't eat the money itself. Another argument also raised by the applicant's rapporteur is that the tax relief is taken into account in the payment of the compensation. If this property tax is removed, it is likely that the amounts will be reduced accordingly when compensation is paid. And then these people are going to be equidistant. The proposers wish to amend the exemption rule currently applicable to persons with a disability level. The majority indicate that today there are exemptions for those who are 50 pst. disabled or more. It is proposed to lower it to 15 pst. Exemptions are about the need to replace the loss of own income. It is clearly the largest for those who have a high degree of disability and are thus unable to work. In the event of a lower degree of incapacity, the chances will be much greater for him to have a normal professional activity and thus to be able to support himself. So the conclusion is that we're not going in favour of this. If we had made such a change, we would at the same time have opened up the possibility of tax planning. Although it may seem cynical, we know that it happens, and in a way that is difficult to stop unless you have a solid code. We therefore recommend that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3612	One could well have used the old word «heart has been said» after having heard the case rapporteur’s thorough and good statements about what the matter is really about. But I want to point out a few things anyway. It was repeated from the pulpit of previous speakers that no harmonisation can be followed between the degree of inadequacy and the exemption from wealth, precisely because they will have a great sense of being able to stand in the labour market and support themselves. With respect to reporting, we're talking about people under the age of 22. We're talking about children, and it's not exactly those who are the largest group in the world of work, so here I think the committee must have blinked when they wrote the comments, or they haven't gone well enough into the legislation. The information I myself obtained from the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion confirms that the average age for going out of work is 24 years. That means that no matter how you turn and turn on it, none of them will be within this regulation anyway. So here we're talking about children who, because of a tragic fate, have been compensated, and who, because they're over a certain size, are managed by the Oversight. I also think it is a pity that the majority and the Government are not willing to consider this proposal further, but only categorically reject it. We can take an example, which is also referred to in the proposal. If a person with 50 pst. disability has received 1 million. kr in damages, the amount will not be subject to taxes on wealth, but for one who has received the same amount but has 45 pst. disability, the money will be subject to taxation. If he/she is a 16-year-old child and only has a mother who is in a part-time position, the mother must apply to the Oversight Authority to withdraw money from the account on which this compensation is due to pay the tax. I think it's completely unreasonable, and I think most people in this room basically think it's completely unreasonable. That is why I am somewhat disappointed that the proposal is not supported. So it's also true that compensation after tragic events is not only compensation from Norwegian patient damages, but it's only people with disability and there's been payment from Norwegian patient damages, who get an exemption even the year you're 21 years old. If you are a child and e.g. has been exposed to an accident and is paid by a private insurance company – if it is covered – the amount is subject to full taxes on wealth, even if it is the Oversight Agency that manages the money. The same will unfortunately apply to very many children who in today's society have divorced parents. I think most parents have favored their children through private insurance. If one parent goes away and the child is a minor, the child will be paid the sum, but that will be a full tax. That is why I believe that the proposals that have been made by the minority are good proposals – proposals that I would have liked to have been adopted in Stortinget, that we would have gone through this legislation thoroughly to see what the negative consequences of today's tax system actually lead to for the minors we are talking about here. Finally, I have to say that I very much support what the representative Sponheim said in his post. He drew it out with tax planning, and when we know what cases this is about, it's at the limit of the tasteless.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3625	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3599]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3642	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3659	The proposers focus on one of Norway’s most important and largest district industries. Reference is made to the fact that the construction industry is particularly hard hit by the financial crisis, that it has been 23 years since a growth report on industry was submitted, and that it is therefore important that the challenges for industry are fully presented from the Government through a growth report. The proposers point out that there are many unresolved tasks in infrastructure and public building mass and that nutrient taxation is a heavy burden. And tax reliefs are demanded to get the economic activity back on track. The majority of the Committee – the parties to the government – rejects the proposal. They refer to letters from the Council of State and justify the fact that the construction industry is now approaching a normal situation because the Government has already taken a number of short-term immediate measures to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis. An overall opposition supports the proposal for a deposit notification. There are very many public bodies that are currently responsible for the public building stock. All departments are, to a greater or lesser extent, ordering new construction services and maintenance, which suggests that the need for an overall strategy of the Government in this area is present. The organisation of management, operation, initial investment and maintenance should be more effective than it is today, thus contributing to greater predictability and long-term sustainability of the construction industry through a large-scale notification of the construction industry. If we ignore the hopefully short-term problems facing the construction industry in these financial crisis times, the Right believes that the industry will face several challenges in the long term. The purpose of a big message is to look far into the future. Therefore, the right considers that, through a potential large-scale communication, a climate-friendly building should also be illuminated and discussed, increased competence in industry, unprofessional operators in industry and, not least, the cessation of black work. Construction errors represent an average of 4 pst. of the value of newly built dwellings after takeover and the Consumer Council receives between 10 000 and 12 000 requests for housing problems. Therefore, the right has previously proposed consumer rights in the case of transfer of property – Document No. 8:62 for 2008-2009 – where we refer to media postings where it appears that only 10–15 pst. of the defects in the construction are discovered before six years have elapsed. Therefore, the right proposed the introduction of a 10-year guarantee period, a service booklet for housing and compulsory construction insurance and a condition report. The right shares the concern about the exceptional situation in which the construction industry is currently located. We have therefore supported the Government’s package of measures to stimulate growth in industry and thus also the construction industry. Nevertheless, we will once again point out that the crisis package from the Government was irresponsibly late. Right-wing promotion of its proposals for the crisis package already in the budget in the autumn of 2008. We are critical that the Government lacks the will to implement what we will describe as more accurate measures, as the Right has made through a number of proposals to counter an increasing number of unemployed through permits and bankruptcies. The right proposes, among other things: removing the Government's tax increases and increasing the depreciation rates for machines from 20 pst. until 25 pst. We propose a stronger investment in road construction than the Government, and we want municipalities to keep a share of the corporate tax to motivate municipalities to facilitate business development. The right also proposed to extend the loan scheme to municipalities from NOK 2 billion to NOK 5 billion to ensure more activity in refurbishment of school buildings, etc., which would have benefited the construction industry to the greatest extent. In the right, it is positive that the proposers propose to shed light on the challenges of the construction industry through a new large-scale communication, and we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3682	Should the representative include the proposal in the vote on the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3685	Yes, the representative would like to address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3690	Then the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3693	I will not extend the debate in particular. The rapporteur explained the opposition's views on the matter, and she did so in a good way. Now, the construction industry is the industry that only experiences effects when there are economic fluctuations. This applies not only to the current crisis situation, but also to the past. So it's like many times being promoted a big message in the period. We have just, today, dealt with the national transport plan, which comes once in a period. There are also other types of messages that come at regular intervals, such as the state of the state of the kingdom and some others. I think it is quite strange in many ways that it is not a total big deal that will have such a big message, simply because there are fluctuations in the industry, and there are also big lags in public building. Only in the municipal sector will 100 billion DKK be invested in the next 10 years. Within school it's $65 billion, and in the case of public hospitals, the investment need is $7 billion every year. That you don't have a more conscious strategy from the Government in that way, I think it's a little amazing, and it's also a little amazing that the government parties can't support us in this matter. But it has become a tradition, unfortunately, that all the proposals that the opposition is promoting are being put to the vote. That's what I think is sad, because I think this industry too needs to get a little more attention and a little more stable and predictable public sector action. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal made by the Progress Party in the vote together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3706	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3709	I'll just briefly say a few words about why we don't support the proposal. It's simply because when we made the Soria Moria statement, we drew out a lot of industries that we said we should give priority by making our own messages and drawing them out in different ways. It doesn't mean in any way that we don't think the construction industry is important, but we follow the Soria Moria statement in our government period these four years, and then we get back after the election with a new round in different areas. What's important about the construction industry is that it's an industry that's got the feeling that we have a government that wanted to pursue an active policy, that's just the construction industry. We have carried out a lot of dialogue with the construction industry, which has developed the industry, ensuring that the construction industry does not experience downtime, and we have supported the serious parts of the construction industry. It is enough to mention that in these fluctuating business cycle times we have made sure to put a lot of money in, among other things. through the House Bank, which has been important for the construction industry. Had it been up to the Right and Advance Party programmes in the last period, we had not had the House Bank as a counter-cyclical bank to use in these times. We have made sure to introduce new building regulations in cooperation with the construction industry, which have just ensured that our construction industry is one of those that are moving very strongly and in the right direction in terms of the environment and climate. We have provided new legislation on planning legislation, which is important in order for the construction industry to have predictability and long-termity in relation to the plan law. In the context of the crisis package, we have also presented measures relating to depreciation rates for investments made this year, which have been important. We have also taken steps to support the serious part of the construction industry through our policy of publicising collective agreements, by following up on the need to have proper pay and working conditions in the construction industry, which is precisely important to ensure that unprofessional workers are out of business and that the serious ones are able to compete well with others. So the construction industry, we all, both the finance committee, the business committee and the housing committee, etc., have always had close and good cooperation with, to ensure that the best for the construction industry is nourished and in relation to long-term and stability. Therefore, we say that the construction industry is a good industry and an important industry for Norway, but we have not chosen to go in for a separate growth message for the construction industry in this round. We do not support the opposition's proposal, simply because we believe that it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3600]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3728	After it had been called voting, said
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3732	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1-13. Since the President has taken part in a debate earlier today, he will, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Paragraph 35 of the Rules of Procedure, request the consent of the Stortinget that he still conduct the voting. No objection has come to it, and it's settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3744	119 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-14, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 15-18, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 19, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 20-22, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 23, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 24, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 25–36, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 37-72 and 115-119, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 73-83, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and the Christian People's Party proposed no. 84 to 105, from Trond Helleland on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 106, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 107, by Jan Sahl on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 108-114, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left There will be a vote on the proposal No. 108-114 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3910	There will be a vote on proposal No. 107, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The framework for transport purposes in the 2010–2019 planning period is increased by 15 billion. kronor in addition to the government proposal. The funds are distributed as follows:ObjectivesGovernment proposal NTP 2010–2019KrF's proposal NTP 2010–2019Increase cap. 1350 Railway station, post 3050 330 billion $50,430 billion $0.1 billion. KronerMap. 1330 Special transport measures, item 71 Remuneration scheme for the route and cycle. [[(New entry):]] 2 Increases in funds within these main frameworks are distributed in line with the comments of the Christian People's Party at the Innst. [[2008-2009]] S. No 300
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e3984	There will be a vote on proposal No. 106, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a State aid scheme for municipalities and counties, following the model of the State reward scheme for public transport, with the aim of stimulating more safe walking and cycling routes.’ Right has notice that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e4001	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 84 to 105, from Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e4142	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 73-83, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e4220	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 37 to 72, 116, 118 and 119, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5256	There will be a vote on proposal No. 115, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5272	There will be a vote on proposal No. 117, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5288	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 25–36, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5378	There will be a vote on proposal No. 24 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide a comprehensive overview of transport charges and charges with proposals for a future strategy for the use of charges and charges in order to achieve national transport policy objectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5392	There will be a vote on proposal No. 23, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up national guidelines on the quality and quantity of TT transport and to propose a financing mechanism to ensure TT transport in line with national guidelines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5406	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 20-22, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5442	There will be a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to liquidate the train monopoly and open the way for the competitive outsourcing of all routes in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5456	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 15 and 17, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5480	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 16 and 18, from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5495	The left has notification that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5506	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-14, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5614	The President takes note of the fact that what is recommended as III is II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5627	During the debate, Per Sandberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: The size asks the Government to submit its own forecast of strategy and measures relating to efficient maritime transport and port structure as soon as possible in line with the guidance mentioned in and in the handling of Document No. 8:48 [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:48 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5650	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 3, from Truls Wickholm on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party Proposal No. 1 and 2 have been included in the setting on pages 8 and 9, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the representatives' seats in the hall. There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5685	There will be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the further consideration of the Oslopacket 3 projects, the size of the budget assumes that the balance between investment in road, investment in public transport and that the resources for the operation of public transport, as described in the majority’s observations on the treatment of Oslopackakt 3 step 1 (Nearly. S. No 170 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5691	The Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right have warned that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5716	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party There will be a vote on the proposal No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5748	There will be a vote on proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Thirteen-eightth line of E6 is defined as a single project and is expanded as a OPS solution, following the pattern of the previously realised OPS project in Norway.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5788	During the debate, Dagrun Eriksen has put forward one proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose as soon as possible that non-profit institutions which rely on connecting equipment to carry out rescue operations for the purpose of saving life and health are exempted from paying annual concession fees under the Telecom Act. The loss of revenue is covered by the equivalent efficiency of postal and telecommunications supervision.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected. The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:77 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5813	A vote will be taken on the proposals by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 2 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the transfer of other national roads to the counties and the Municipality of Oslo.’ The voting boards showed 65 voices against the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right and 38 voices for. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.01.38]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5825	I need some remorse, and that concerns voting. I am against the Advancement Party and the Right proposal, but let the mind wander, so I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5830	The representative voted in favour and should have voted against?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5833	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5838	The correct number of votes is 66 voices against the proposal and 37 voices for. That is why the proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5846	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 2 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own case on maintenance upgrading of tribal roads, national roads and municipal roads based on state financial instruments as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5878	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5927	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5951	There will then be no alternative between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative changes in the tax law §4-22, so that persons with a disability down to 15 per cent are exempted from property tax on the amount of compensation.’ The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:83 [[2008-2009]] The voting boards showed 56 voices for the recommendation and 46 voices for the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 23.05.16]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5967	I voted wrong. I should definitely have voted in favour of the proposal. I think there are several people who voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e5972	The President will take the vote once more because there are several people who feel uncertain about how they have voted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e6002	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e6026	There will then be no alternative between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a monitoring report on the construction industry.’ The Committee had recommended that: Document No 8:66 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-11.ana.ud1232e6054	There is no record available. Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
