ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e32	Representatives of Gunvor Eldegard, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Borghild Tenden, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Erling Sande and Steinar Gullvåg, who have been licensed, have again taken up the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Hedmark County: Farahnaz Bahrami For the Nordic counties: Kari Storstrand and Allan Johansen For Rogaland County: Marit Amundsen and Pål Morten Borgli For Troms County: Kent Gudmundsen From the Workers' Group there is a notice of the withdrawal of the licence granted to the representative of Torgeir Micaelsen from 19 October to 13 November. From the Enlarged Group of the Progress Party, there is a notice that the licence granted to the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen for the period from 20 October to 22 October is changed to health leave from 20 October until further notice. – These messages are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e87	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 October 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined: The councils of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Sylvia Brustad, Heidi Grande Røys and Bård Vegar Solhjell will be given from 20 October 2009 at 3:00 p.m. off in grace. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. responsibility for childcare and training matters in the Ministry of Knowledge. State Council Halvorsen also assumes from the same date the administrative responsibility of the Ministry of Knowledge. State Council Liv Signe Navarsete takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. administered by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Councillor Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. administered by the Ministry of Transport. State Council Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. administered by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. State Council Knut Storberget will take over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 managed by the Department of Immigration in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion as well as the Board of the Ministry of Justice and Police. State Council Trond Giske takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 3 p.m. administered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. State Council Anniken Huitfeldt takes over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 administered by the Ministry of Culture and the Church, with the exception of the Church Department. Partner Grete Faremo is appointed State Council and will take over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 Chairman of the Ministry of Defence. County of Sigbjørn Johnsen is appointed State Council and will take over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 Board of Directors of the Ministry of Finance. State Secretary Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen is appointed to the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office and head of staff to assist the Prime Minister in his work from 20 October 2009 at 9.30 a.m. 3:00 p.m. Special Adviser Hanne Inger Bjurstrøm is appointed State Council. From 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. From 15.00 to 20 December 2009, she is responsible for assisting the Solheim Government Council with the organisation of international climate negotiations. From 21 December 2009, she shall take over the Management Board of the Administrative and Development Department, the Budget and Economic Department, the Labour Market Department, the Labour Environment and Security Department, the Pensions Department and the Welfare Policy Department of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Parliamentary representative Rigmor Aasrud is appointed to the Council of State and will take over from 20 October 2009 at 9.30 a.m. 15.00 Board of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, Church Department of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church and the Department of Common and Minority Policy in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. From the same date until 21 December 2009, she shall, in addition, take over the Management Board of the Administrative and Development Department, the Budget and Economic Department, the Labour Market Department, the Health and Safety Department, the Pensions Department and the Welfare Policy Department of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Lisbeth Berg-Hansen is appointed State Council and will take over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 administered by the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Parliamentary representative Audun Lysbakken is appointed to the Council of State and is responsible for child, equality and inclusion matters. He will take over from 20 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 15.00 managed by the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Department of Integration and Diversity in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. The Council of State Rigmor Aasrud is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers, with the special task of being responsible for coordinating Nordic cooperation issues. The ranking of the members of the Government shall be determined in accordance with an attached proposal. For the State Councils and State Secretaries who are employed in the State, the posts are kept open to them as long as they are State Councils and State Secretaries. If they have been added to the annual target position, the end of the annual target shall be postponed for a period corresponding to the time they have served as State Council or State Secretary. In the event of resignation, quarantine and/or procedural prohibitions may be imposed in accordance with specific guidelines laid down on 29 September 2005 by the Ministry of Modernisation at that time, the current Ministry of Renewal and Administration. In the event of a transition to a position outside central government, specific provisions of the guidelines on information obligations and conventional fines shall apply. The following State Secretaries will be appointed by courtesy from 20 October 2009 at 9.30 a.m. 15.00: State Secretary Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Secretary Roger Schjerva for Council of State Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary Henriette Westhrin for Council of State Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary for Council of State Mr Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary for Council of State Mr Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary for Council of State Mr Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary Erik Lahnstein for Council of State Life Sign Navarsee State Secretary Day-Henrik Sandbakken for Council of State Mr Magnhild Meltway Kleppa State Secretary Åsa Elvik for Council of State Tora Aasland State Secretary Espen Barth Eide for Government Council of State 15.00: Secretary of State Kristin Halvorsen State Secretary Guri Størdraadt for Council of State Life Sign Navarsee State Secretary Espen Barth Eide for Council of State Grete Faremo State Secretary Hilde Singsaas for Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen Senior Counsellor Kjetil Lund for Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen State Secretary Roger Schjerva for Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen Government Secretary Ole Morten Geving for Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen State Secretary Lind for Government Council Trond Gian State Secretary Erik Lahnstein for Council of State Kleppa Political adviser Lars Ergjørn Åretskjært Åle Morten Geving for Council of State Sigbjørn Johnsen State Secretary for State Ministerial State The President proposed that this letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. National Councils shall entail the following changes in the composition of the Grand Duchy: The former member of the Board of Directors Vegar Solhjell takes the seat as a representative. The first alternate for Hordaland and Oppland counties respectively, Gina Knutson Barstad and Stine Renate Håheim, take the seat as representatives of the time the representatives Audun Lysbakken and Rigmor Aasrud are members of the Government. A number of permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Åse Michaelsen from 21 October until further notice. by the Workers' Group on sickness leave of the representative Hilde Magnusson Lydvo from 21 October until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the West Agder County: Tor Sigbjørn UtsugnognFor the Hordaland County: Jette F. Christensen Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn and Jette F. Christensen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e280	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e283	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the possible implementation of Directive 2006/24/EC in Norwegian law. [[‘Data storage Directive’]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e288	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e291	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose a representative to introduce a flexible parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e297	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will draw attention to the fact that there will be a vote in the last case of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e321	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e330	Tonight the tax lists were published again. In most contexts, this is just fun. People look at each other a little bit – consider who's the richest, what sports scandal that's served the most, etc. But this has a much more serious side. Many children experience bullying as a result of looking at each other in small communities in the cards. Then, of course, it is particularly hard on those who have parents with low income. It has also recently been revealed that children with foster parents experience being hung out on these tax lists — and thus have been revealed as to their past. It has been registered that the Ministry of Finance has suggested a possible exemption from this publication, but nothing has yet happened. What stands out as a bigger problem is the number of identity thefts. There have been more identity thefts so far this year than it was last year. Unfortunately, as a result of this information being publicly available, we also see an increase in organised crime. It should worry the Prime Minister and the Government, simply because this will lead to far more serious crime than it would have done if the tax lists were not publicly available. In the election campaign, the State Council used Storberget, when he discovered that personal data could be accessed on the MinFaste online service, three hours to get this service blocked. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will he spend three hours banning the publication of the tax lists, so that there can be an increase in the level of serious crime caused by the transparency of people's tax papers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e339	With regard to the tax lists, there is a long and good tradition in Norway that they are public. This government hasn't changed, we've gone on with it on the contrary. So it's true that there's been some criticism about problems related to, for example. abstinence. Therefore, according to the tax authorities, past practices have changed from the autumn onwards. Information on children aged 16 years or less has been removed from the tax lists in the harvest – to the extent that the information may reveal that the parents have been deprived of parental or daily care for the children. Consequently, the tax lists being published will not be able to be used to identify the unborn child. Information on persons without fixed stay and information likely to disrupt a client relationship has been removed from the tax lists. This means that tax authorities seek to ensure different data protection considerations. It is also such that the use of the tax registers is regulated by the Data Protection Act, which is subject to the Data Protection Authority. Therefore, the Data Protection Authority is also responsible for deciding what the press can use the information for. During the deliberations of June 2007 of the Bill on the publication of the tax lists, the majority of the Financial Committee referred to the opinions of the Judicial Committee during the examination of the Data Protection Act. It was primarily about the Data Protection Agency and ensuring freedom of expression. There's a line government is still on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e350	This was not very uplifting on the part of the Prime Minister. On a number of occasions, data protection has itself been very critical for the publication of the tax lists. In addition, the majority of the Data Protection Commission entered earlier this year in order to limit publication, in the interests of privacy. When we – at the top of it all – know that so far this year 1,800 individuals have had to block their identity as a result of identity theft, this is starting to become a serious problem. The government often says in celebrations that it is concerned with preventing and combating crime. Well, it's going to be a simple tool, especially related to organised crime targeting individuals, burglaries and other serious crimes, if you were to intervene at least to restrict access to this information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e357	So, as I tried to explain, there are limitations in the information and its use. Further restrictions have also been introduced, including: to ensure that information on children in foster homes and other children is not misused. There are also other types of restrictions. Thus, when the Justice Committee and the Finance Committee dealt with this in 2007, there were opponents of more extensive restrictions and of abolishing the publication of tax lists, not least for reasons of freedom of expression, and they did not want to go further when it came to restricting the use of this information by the press. It is the Data Protection Authority that continuously assesses this and the enforcement of the law, and some changes have been made this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e366	It opens for follow-up questions, which should be relevant to the main question – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e369	I registered in the media a few days ago that there was an ever-increasing number of blackmail attempts here in Norway. The criminal elements got their information from the tax lists when they were going to start the extortion of rich people. This suggests that someone has taken the government's rhetoric to ‘take the rich’ very literally. I guess that's not what the Prime Minister meant when they told you to take the rich. If it is important for the Government to publish what you contribute to the community through the tax lists, why is it not equally right, in that case, to publish what you get from the public rhetoric? If you were to follow the government's rhetoric and argument for publishing the tax lists, you would think that you could start hanging out people and publishing what you get in disability, what you get from social benefits, etc. I registered that the Prime Minister commented on this and said that it was part of the freedom of expression. I guess that's something special.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e379	I maintain that being careful to restrict the use of tax lists by the press is about freedom of expression. It was at least the justification used by the Financial Committee and the Judicial Committee to be cautious with restrictions on the use of this information by the press. That is why it has a justification for freedom of speech, and I maintain that. So it's like there's constraints. I showed you, among other things: to those introduced in the case of children. The main reason for publishing the tax lists is that it contributes to the public, debate and attention around taxes, fiscal conditions and people's contribution to the community. I think it is a strength of Norwegian democracy that we have this kind of public debate, among other things. based on the tax lists. I believe that there is a difference in publicity about what you pay into taxes, and what different people receive in social security and benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e388	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e392	Transparency of income and tax relationships of those sitting at the top of the table will always be. The question is whether all of the information about us should be available to everyone. The Stoltenberg II government helped the press access the tax lists electronically. In other words, one has gone further in this direction than the previous government. I'm a little surprised at how easily the Prime Minister addresses the challenges he's facing, how the tax lists can contribute to child bullying since you can find out about income and tax relationships with all the parents in the class, and also how this transparency can contribute to identity theft and be a tool for criminals. The right has proposed that there should be the same limitations as those related to credit information — in other words, that the person asking should be registered and that the requested person should also be informed. The question is whether the Prime Minister will allow for further restrictions, in order to ensure privacy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e401	I believe that we should take privacy very seriously. I believe that it is very important to contribute to privacy. Therefore, the Data Protection Authority has also been given the responsibility to manage the law in relation to the Data Protection Act. So it's under the Data Protection Authority. Therefore, restrictions have also been imposed and further restrictions have been imposed this year. We would like to have an ongoing debate on what types of restrictions we should have. But the fact that we have the tax lists is an old principle. It contributes to a public debate, and it is important not least for the media. They have been concerned with freedom of expression pages in relation to further restrictions on the part of the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e408	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e411	The left has co-ordinated with the Government that transparency weighs heavily when the principles of privacy and transparency meet. We also took part in the last enlargement, but we see that the expansion is about to give itself a lot of strange looks, which makes us very in doubt. Today morning, for example, sent a message. TV 2 sent out a text message to people saying that it was just to apply for what the Prime Minister earned – the search cost NOK 3 on his own cell phone. We in the Left are critical to creating business models based on electronic information of this type. Maybe the principle of transparency has come out of proportion. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with us that we should find some reasonable limitations in the future that both safeguard privacy and limit some of the commercial interests associated with this, before this comes entirely out of proportion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e420	It is true that in 2007, the majority of the Grand Duchy made changes, because transparency, but also privacy, and freedom of expression were at stake. There are always border surfaces, there are always scales, and there have been adjustments in relation to children. I'm open to continuing to discuss, continue to make assessments of how those balances are best designed, but the main question, whether or not the tax lists should be publicly available, I believe is an important part of the public debate and the transparency of society. The fact that people pay $3 to know what my income is, I think it's worrying, because you can get that information for free!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e430	Let me begin by congratulating the Prime Minister with a new-old government – on several levels. There is always tension when a new four-year period comes into force. A little over a week ago, a new government platform was also presented. This platform signaled, in a slightly different way, the relationship with private health services. I record that the outgoing Minister of Health of Editorial Affairs mentioned, among other things. This applies to challenges related to waiting time increases and the much longer health queue that has grown under the government we now have, saying that he is pleased that in the government platform that was published earlier, some very clear new policy initiatives are being taken to overcome the waiting time, and that he has therefore been a very active driver for bringing in new formulations in this area, for example. a more flexible use of private hospitals. It is true that in the new platform there are some more well-meaning words about the use of private hospitals, but only the queues are connected. My more fundamental question to the Prime Minister is whether or not the Prime Minister sees that there is a need to have a variety of offers, perhaps especially for the weakest and most difficult groups we have in the health sector. Is it not the case that a diversity of different forms of supply, a diversity of different forms of treatment, is necessary for us to have reliable solutions? Is it the case that we can now experience a new policy from this government that accepts private services in the care sector, in the health sector, not only in order to deal with cows, but also in order to get innovation, innovation and better offers to those users who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e439	The most important thing is that the public must take responsibility for the provision of health care, the provision of care, here in the country. This has been done publicly, and that is also why we are increasing significantly both in the case of hospitals, specialist health services, and in the case of other types of care/health services, among others. in the municipalities. It's the responsibility of the public. It has to be, and we're very clear on that. Then for a long time, we've had a relationship with private people. When we use the word ‘private’, I think in the public debate we often have – what we should say – a little upresis use of words, because the private are, of course, the non-commercial private, they have a very big point. For example, in specialised drug treatment it is 60 pst. of the 24-hour private capacity. So that's a lot of private stuff. Then we have non-commercial hospitals like the Diakon home and other private ones. But then we also have some commercial ones, and they were under the previous government about 50,000 stays. So it went down to 33,000 in 2007, and now it's up above 40,000 again. There's, of course, a decline and then a rise again. But there are about 1 million treatments in public hospitals. When I say that, it's because the large capacity is in the public hospitals. The private commercial hospitals are a supplement. It's a useful supplement. We're going to use that supplement, we're going to use it, for example. in the programme called ‘Retreaters’, where we are trying to help reduce sick leave. But we cannot escape the fact that the main responsibility, the main gravity, must be in public, and that is what we express in the Soria Moria Declaration. Having a private — that is why we have some private — can contribute to the opposite, because we know that it is a demanding relationship when we have a patient and a public institution that pays, which is a commercial service provider. That is why, among other things, the US health system is so extremely expensive; one does not have a normal market, but one has a person who pays in a market in which others participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e451	No one in Norway is proposing American health services. My question was about the diversity of offers. It's the way that not everyone comes back faster. In the gallery today, there is a group of girls who may not be coming back faster, but who need an offer to help them, linked to eating disorders. They get an offer in Fredrikstad today, at the Capio Anoreksi Senter, a case that was treated as the last big deal. The size returned a positive message to the centre, and the government has also previously given positive signals of trying to find a solution for the centre, but it is true that the opposite is true, namely that the health care companies are not now re-entering the treatment of patients to an offer that has already failed them. There are some of these girls who have been in 50 different treatment institutions in public, and there are relatives who are exhausted. They need a Prime Minister who cuts through and who makes sure that their offer is not now ‘killed’ because it has such an impact on their everyday lives. Will the Prime Minister cut through?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e458	I think that an absolute prerequisite for spending money wisely in the public sector is that we follow the rules for spending money in the public sector. The size and not least the right has been a driver for a clear division of responsibilities. The size grant money, sets out some general guidelines, and then the health care companies are the ones who dispose of that money. If we end up in a situation where the Storting goes into and decides on individual offers, individual institutions, I'm absolutely sure we're contributing to a less efficient healthcare system. That's why I don't have the opportunity to go in and believe anything about individual institutions. What I have the opportunity to say is that we are increasing the framework, that health businesses are making them available within those frameworks, and that we are increasingly using them to stay in private institutions. So it's increased from 33 000 to 42 000, which is estimated for this year. There is an important increase, and there are different institutions, private offerings, as they appear. But in relation to about 1 million in public hospitals, there will always be a limited supplement. That's why I don't think it helps to make things more efficient for us to take individual institutions in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e463	Follow-up questions are given – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e467	I understand that the Prime Minister has a theoretical relationship with this issue. For the girls sitting in the gallery, this is not a matter of theory; it's a matter of life or death. They do not need a more effective healthcare system, which the Prime Minister is obviously very concerned about. They need a health service that gives them time and not least diversity and choice. This is a question for the Government, because it is the Ministry of Health that has repeatedly rejected the application to make this offer a hospital offer. My simple question to the Prime Minister is that these girls have taken the trip to Stortinget because they are concerned about this matter, not least because they know very many others who are in the same situation as them. Will the Prime Minister take the time to meet some representatives of these girls and accept a letter that they have written about their situation, out in the Horizontal Hall for the Question Time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e476	I believe it is very important in health policy – where we spend over 100 billion kroner, where we have 100,000 employees in health care – that we try to be tidy about how we manage the health care system. I am absolutely sure that the health service is going very badly if we in this room are going to point to individual institutions and individual groups, and make it what determines which groups get, and which institutions get contracts or appropriations. It is a policy that will actually weaken the overall supply of health. I have therefore not said yes or no to the specific institution, because it is simply not on my table now or is a matter that I believe should be dealt with here in the Stortinget. But it's quite important to us that we're principled, and it's quite worrying that the Right is so out of the reach, that they're trying to make a very important debate about how we get to a better and more well-organized health care system, into a discussion about a desire for individual institutions into the landfill. That was one of the things you wanted to get away with the new health reform, which, not least, was a right-wing driver. That's why I think it's wrong with the approach that the Right has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e483	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e486	In the welfare society of Norway, we all agree that we should have a joint funding of welfare goods in the health and drug fields as well. However, when we experience today that we have more than 250,000 people in health queues and 4,500 individual ships waiting for care, several of us are concerned about that situation. Not least, it should concern the Prime Minister — and the economist — that we have so much resources in this society, including in the private sector, which is unused. My question is, can we live with cows, and can we live with a social development where we do not exploit the available capacity that we also have in the private health and care sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e493	What's said in Soria Moria is that we're engaged in exploiting the available capacity of the public health system, first. There's some available capacity, and we've helped increase its use. That's also why we're now treating more patients than ever. We have increased the appropriations for patient treatment, we treat more people in Norwegian hospitals, and there have never been more doctors, nurses or more health professionals in Norwegian hospitals. In the case of waiting time, it is said that two thirds of those who turn to Norwegian hospitals are entitled to immediate help and are hospitalised immediately. There's so one-third that has to wait something, and the very, most of them get treatment within the set deadlines. So there's a small percentage of those who wait even longer, so we're increasing our efforts to do something about it. But the most important way to do something about this is to implement the interaction reform that the Government is now working on. The problems in hospitals are not solved primarily in hospitals. They are solved outside the hospitals by reducing the number of hospital admissions, and by allowing more people to be discharged from hospitals. Norway is almost at the top of the world in health expenditure, but we do not have the best healthcare system. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e500	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e503	I get quite upset and stated. It must then be a political question whether or not to use private and non-profit institutions in a good way. These include: also concerning the tendering practice. Go in and read what is on the government platform about this. It's so market-driven that you can almost get scared. I just want to refer to the Håpets Door Salvation Army, the Kraft institutions – three pieces here in the East – Solbu After protection home, Styve Gard away in Bergen, Garnes Youth Center. Today, Capio, who is not an ideal institution, stands for fall. What are we doing? There is a total lack of political governance from among others. the Minister for Health. All power lies in the regional health companies, with a tendering practice that is totally incomprehensible both to me, to my party, to the non-profit institutions. What in the world are they going to do? They die slowly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e510	I think it's a political question whether we're going to use private in a good way, as the representative addresses. The Stortinget has agreed, but we have said yes to just doing so in a good way. A good way is to set up guidelines, give appropriations, and then health care businesses cooperate with the different institutions. We have regular notices about individual institutions that have not extended the contract, they have chosen another one. If you want to use private as a supplement, you also have to accept that sometimes you choose that institution, sometimes choose another institution — based on either quality or price assessments. But those assessments are supposed to do the professional skills of health businesses and not politicians, because then we don't get a good use of private people. That's why we have to follow the rules of the game that Stortinget has set up for the good use of private people. I'm to use private, but for them to be used in a good way. We cannot then sit and decide on individual institutions and assess the quality of the different institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e517	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e520	It's hard to understand what kind of principled attitudes the government has to private actors. Child protection has focused on limiting commercial offers, but so-called NPISHs are welcome. In the health sector, we see that offers are being rented out by private actors and full child care coverage would have been impossible to achieve without private actors. In particular, I find it difficult to understand where the government believes the distinction goes between ideal and commercial actors. Among other things, an institution run by the Church's Emergency Aid is a member of the private child protection organisation. Can the Prime Minister define which actors are commercial and what a non-profit institution is?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e527	A common definition is that the ideals do not take dividends — they are not owners who have commercial incomes related to the business, while commercial private institutions do. However, often we use the generic term ‘private’ for both types of private enterprises — non-commercial and commercial. In terms of the use of private, whether it's commercial or non-commercial, I think the whole point is that they're an important supplement. We're using them in kindergarten, we're using them in foster care, 60 pst. of the offer is private, and we also use them in the specialist health service, i.e. about 40,000 stays. It's an important supplement. What I'm concerned about is that we're principled, that we're trying to be neat, and that it's the professional authorities that assess what's the right professional offer, assess the quality of the different offers and assess the costs. There is a professional assessment to be made within the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. It is not the Storting or the Government to enter individual institutions. It has at least decided the Storting that they should not, and then the Storing and the Government should stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e537	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e540	One of the tasks of big business and government, which are of the greatest, is to ensure that all people in this country who can and will get the opportunity to work. For this reason, the Prime Minister’s first government signed an agreement with the social partners on inclusive working life in 2001 — now eight years ago — and therefore, changing governments have taken initiatives for reforms, including: The Nav reform, to ensure that this can be implemented. To this extent, overall results are disappointing, although many good and effective measures have been implemented. We expect, according to the Government, a higher level of sick leave next year than when the agreement on inclusive working life was concluded. 40,000 more are excluded from the labour market and disabled during the period we have had an agreement on inclusive working life. There are today the same number of disabled people who, against their will, are out of work, as it was when the agreement was concluded. In Stoltenberg’s last period of government, social security expenditure has actually increased by NOK 30 billion. I assume that the Prime Minister shares my concern about this status. I want to ask the Prime Minister, because I have registered that he has expressed this concern, among other things. in the contact meeting with the social partners, where he also said that we need to find good tools to solve the problem, and we have to do something quickly: since the Prime Minister believes it has to do something quickly, I assume that, in addition to continuing to do good things like the qualification programme, the Nav reform, etc., he has thought through what it is of new grip he is now thinking to remedy this serious situation that the country is in, despite the fact that we are behind a high economic cycle where we should have managed better to include more people in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e549	Firstly, I believe that the question raised by the representative, Højbrätten, is a very important question. Secondly, I believe that as far as development is concerned, it is – what to say – nuanced, it is going well, and something goes bad. What goes well in Norway is that we keep very high employment. Employment has increased by over 200,000 in the last four years, mostly in private enterprises. We have a low unemployment rate, and the unemployability rate — the proportion of the population who are underprivileged — is stable. The fact that we have a high level of employment, low unemployment and a stable unfavourability rate is at least better than in many other countries and better than in previous periods in Norway. What's not going well is the sick leave, and of course we want to have the disability down. We also struggle with the capacity and implementation of the Nav system itself. So there are good and bad developments. It's true that we have to do things in the short term. For example, we need to carry out the dialogue with the social partners on the agreement on inclusive working, which expires at the end of the year, and we need to step up the qualification programme, which is one of the most important responses we have, and one of the main tools we have in the Nav reform – that is, to provide long-term recipients of social assistance with an offer of training, qualification, to get out of that situation. We'll do that in the budget. That's what we're doing, and it's coming. But then there are other things that will necessarily take a little longer, for example. The review of the disability insurance scheme that we have announced will come on its own in 2010. I would also believe that much of what we are going to do about inclusive work is also measures that will take longer. We need to do something quickly, and something has a longer time perspective – both are important. In that work, of course, we will have very close contact with the social partners, because much of what we're going to do there depends on us having a good dialogue with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e560	It's hard to disagree with some of what the Prime Minister now said. But my question was about the Prime Minister in the light of the fact that the results in terms of sum go in the wrong direction, both in terms of several disadvantaged people, and in terms of sick leave, there is a new grip in his sleeve when he says that something has to be done quickly. What he answered now was that he would do more of the same in the short term. What should also concern the Storting, and which concerns me at least, is that yesterday the Prime Minister presented his new government with a Minister of Labour who is not going to join until Christmas, while these tasks are in line. The Nav reform is fragile. We do not know whether it will succeed in successful implementation, the Prime Minister himself referred to it, and the negotiations on the new agreement on inclusive working life will continue now in the autumn towards the turn of the year, when the new Minister of Labour joins. Can the Prime Minister give Stortinget a good explanation as to why we should not have a full-blown labour minister, and why he has appointed a labour minister now who is not going to join just up to Christmas Eve?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e569	We have a government council that is fully responsible for the Ministry of Labour, and that's Rigmor Aasrud. She has absolutely focus on and full effort in those matters. She's going to work closely against me and the Prime Minister's office, because it's absolutely right that this fall is one important task, and it's the dialogue around the agreement on inclusive working life. In any case, we would have a new Minister of Labour in the autumn, either because we had a new government, or because we got a new President of the Grand Duchy. Now we have one who's responsible. She follows up that work, and she is very concerned that she, along with the rest of the Government, will work with the parties in terms of the contract of inclusive work. What I'm concerned about is that we do things in the short term, we step up the qualification programme, which is our main tool to help people not go on as long-term recipients of social assistance, but then we do things in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e576	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e579	What can be done independently of each Minister of Labour, which is an open approach to improving inclusion, is to be high on the ground when targeting targeted measures for people with so-called compound needs. They need more than usual individual organisation, close follow-up and a longer return cycle to return and happiness in the labour market. This may cost a lot, but one knows that the personal costs of each individual and the social costs will be much higher if they are not at work. The new Government Declaration states that ‘The Government will have high efforts for the unemployed with complex needs’. That's what I think is a good and correct goal, for which I would like to commend the Prime Minister. But then it is with some wonder that we record that the proportion of people with reduced working capacity who are without active measures has actually increased in the last year. At the same time, the enterprises and the growing businesses, which are close to both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, say that they can well increase their efforts. Will the Prime Minister make any moves to increase their ability?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e586	Firstly, we have implemented a number of targeted measures. What we are also doing is stepping up labour market measures. That matter is now in the budget, which is in Stortinget. What we want to do in this area is explained in detail and comprehensively in the State budget, including with regard to the arrangements for the escalation of labour market measures. That is the proposals made by the Government. Compared to unemployment, there is a significant effort and an action intensity that I believe is at least no lower than what we have had in long periods before – I think it is actually slightly higher – despite increased unemployment. Both what we do on labour market measures, and what we do generally in order to keep low unemployment, is important for this group, because the lower the unemployment rate we have in general, the easier it is to help those who have complex needs, into working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e593	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e596	I have to say that I agree with the representative, Høybräten, when he says that the answers from the Prime Minister appear as if we are going to have more of the same. But the challenge of the representative Højbrätten was perhaps to fish for something new, some new thoughts. When we see the results of 800 million. kr to Nav, we see that the queues are increasing, and that the processing time for rehabilitating in Oslo is now four months. Cows are also increasing in a number of other areas. The IA agreement has not given the result that Stortinget wanted. I record that the Prime Minister says that here we are dependent on the social partners. Yes, we agree, but can't it be that you have to wait for the social partners? I expect the Prime Minister and the Government themselves to have some thoughts – some new thoughts – about what to do with the IA agreement when it is to be continued, to achieve the goal of reducing sick leave, getting more people to work and reducing the queue in Nav. Do you have any new thoughts at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e603	I am concerned that the government is tidy. We've now been working on what to do in 2010. We've actually been working on that for a while, and we put that into the 2010 state budget. There are many new measures and strengthening some of the old ones. We're increasing the budget for Nav by 230 million. kr. We announced that from 1 March 2010, we would introduce the new redundancy payments and a right to self-assessment of work performance. It is a new measure that will take place as from 1 March. In addition, we warn that we're going to increase the number of people on qualification programmes, because it's a successful and good program. We're strengthening our efforts there. So, in the case of the Nav trial, it has fallen, and in the case of the balances we had on unemployment benefits, good goals have been achieved since April 2009. There's a lot going on, we're proposing a lot, and we're giving more money into the 2010 budget. But then I say that in addition to what we have already notified, and which is in the Stortingen now, we warn further measures in dialogue with the social partners through the employment agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e611	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e614	On the right, we suggested that we use the temporary employment agencies more to do something about the Nav reform and all the leftovers. I am a little surprised that the Prime Minister began at the top when it came to the use of temporary workers. That's not what the Right would have thought. We thought maybe it was in the Nav offices that there might be a need for a relief, not in the Government. In the growth period we had before the crisis, there were many more who came into work, but of them actually came quite few from social security and from outside. The number has decreased by approx. 50,000 in the best economic situation we've ever had. On 1 March 2010, as part of the reform, the number of people on whom Nav will be responsible will be doubled. Can the Prime Minister promise that Nav is ready for this, and can he promise that there will be no new queues on March 1st next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e623	The work performance assessment and the introduction of redundancy payments, which are two important measures to help more people get to work, and the fact that we build bridges into the labour market for those who are excluded, was, after all, delayed for some time to ensure that Nav had built up capacity. Now Nav says they have it. We allocate the money in the budget, and that is why we are implementing that reform from 1 March. You should always be careful to guarantee, but at least it has been prepared thoroughly and given money to get it in place. Now, the positive thing is that unemployment is lower than we originally thought, that we have at least avoided growth in the proportion of unskilled people. The negative is what we see in sick leave, but we see that the number of people on social assistance has fallen. So it's a mixed image, but worrying is what goes in the wrong direction. So when it comes to total employment, it's a formidable growth, and most of it happens in private enterprises. That is also a good result that we are proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e632	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e635	The left, along with the Right and Christian People's Party, got a climate settlement with the Government. The government has received many awards and awards internationally for its climate action. We're really excited about that, by the way. But all that you've received is concrete proposals that we actually put in, and that the government fights against. After the climate agreement, we have seen that CO2 emissions only increase further in Norway. If the Minister for the Environment continues to wear knitted jackets so that there is room for and easy to hang on to the medals, it is clear that if he is going to get on more, those emissions will actually have to sink. If we are to aim for Copenhagen to be much better than Kyoto, we must also manage to bring it down. On 11 August – in the election campaign – Erik Solheim Left and several other parties invited to a new climate settlement after the elections, before Copenhagen. On 27 August, the Prime Minister cancelled the term ‘completely unrealistic’ in the Newspaper. Why does the Prime Minister think it is so dangerous and so unrealistic to see whether we can achieve a new climate agreement before Copenhagen, with an even more offensive environmental policy to enter into negotiations with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e645	It is because I believe that the most important thing now is to get an agreement in Copenhagen, and that all the forces should be put into it. We have a climate deal, and it's an advantage that we try to follow up and implement it. So with that climate agreement, we have said that we should overcomply with the Kyoto agreement by 10 pst. We're the only country in the world that says we're going to overfulfill our obligations, and we're going to do it. So we've said that we should be ready to reduce the emissions corresponding to 30 pst. of Norway’s emissions by 2020, and we follow it up. We have also said in Soria Moria that we can consider increasing that commitment if it can contribute to a binding agreement in Copenhagen. And the third thing we're saying is we're going to reduce the emissions by 100 pst. and be carbon neutral by 2030. It's the climate agreement, we're following it, and it's important input into the international climate negotiations. Then we're going to present a new climate communication, and then we can assess, strengthen and develop new climate instruments. But I think – once again – it is a good idea that we follow the rules of the game and the work plan that we have agreed on, among other things. in the climate agreement, so that climate policy is not determined by an approach and by chance. The most important thing now is Copenhagen, where it is important to put in place numerical ceilings – emissions commitments in both rich and poor countries. I'm not sure if we'll succeed, but it's absolutely crucial. To be in the vicinity of succeeding, the key is that the rich world has to pay for the emission reductions in the poor world. There are no major reductions in the world if countries like Brazil, China and India do not make reductions, at least reductions in growth. Almost all growth in the coming years comes in these countries. They believe that it is unreasonable that they take some burdens to clean up a problem created by the rich world, and therefore Norway's main contribution to bringing about major reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions is the mechanisms and mechanisms we put on the table for financing emissions cuts in the poor world, paid by the rich world. That's the key. There's a pusher in Norway, and that's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e654	I hope that what the Prime Minister said, was not a characteristic of his own Minister of Environmental Protection – that he was pursuing environmental policy on the basis of the approach to entry. I see this as a serious invitation from a government council to other opposition parties to join and expand the horizon. The Prime Minister said in the debate on the throne: ‘There are 56 days left today for the final negotiations on a new international climate agreement in Copenhagen. We will use this time to do everything we can to contribute to a strong and committed agreement." Today there are 47 days left for Copenhagen. We in the left are clear. We can present 30 new sector targets, both in relation to a strong shift from red to green taxes and implementation and investment in public transport and rail – we should not just do everything through more out-of-quota purchases. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will at all sit down and consider some of the proposals that we have, in line with the intentions he has promised in his own persuasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e668	Firstly, we appointed a government council yesterday that has one responsibility, and that is to work for us to get a climate agreement in place in Copenhagen. She has been the climate negotiator, now she is the state council with the same responsibility. It strengthens Norway's contribution to establishing an agreement in Copenhagen. Secondly, it is clear that when we present a new climate communication, we will go through sectoral objectives and instruments. We followed up all the others we agreed on in the budget, and we are going to go through new sectoral objectives and instruments. Then certainly the recordings from the left are useful and important to watch. But I just want to warn you a little bit about believing that what is now crucial in Copenhagen is whether we are presenting 30 new sector targets in Norway. It's not at all. Talking contemptuously about quota trading, I think, is very wrong, because quota trading has two major advantages. That's what gives you the greatest reductions. This is why it is the most important instrument in Europe, and it is the most important instrument of Obama's law, namely that a ceiling on emissions should be set – a ceiling on how much total emissions should be. And the second is that it is an important tool to provide funding for the poor world. So this I'm very much for, that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e677	There will be follow-up questions – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e680	The Soria Moria II platform, which I stand by here, has many tumultuous formulations about the climate, but the most concrete and tangible is the change of name by SFT. In addition, there is a great deal to be assessed or carried out without reservations in this area. Among other things, it says here about cuts in Norwegian CO2 emissions of 40 pst. by 2020, if it can contribute to an ambitious climate agreement in Copenhagen. It also states that the Government will provide an assessment of climate policy and an assessment of the need for changed instruments. I understand the answer to Trine Skei Grande that it is not appropriate to have a reinforced climate settlement before the Copenhagen meeting. I regret that, of course, but I still challenge the Prime Minister to drop the reservation and the assessment, and promise to both cut the Norwegian emissions by 40 p.m., regardless of the results in Copenhagen, and to quickly promote a proposal for a new agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e696	I am too many instruments in climate policy, whether it be Enova, rail investment, research or many other measures. They're me for everyone, and we've followed them up like the climate agreement added. But I still want to warn you about one thing, and it's to think that the more tools we have, the more we do. It's a completely wrong approximation. It's actually that sometimes one powerful tool is very good. Once again, I point out that Obama in the United States, the EU, and Norway in Norway, have the strongest means of doing so, namely the statutory ceiling on emissions, where one says that it is simply not allowed to release more than x million. tonnes. That's what we're doing now by putting the quota system in place in Norway and Europe. Sectors that previously emitted 22 million. tonne, get a ceiling of 15. Let's go down seven million. tonnes. That's very good. We make sure that the companies themselves pay for it, and that the authorities don't have to have long, complicated processes about just how it's going to happen. I believe that there is a little too much focus on the number of instruments and a little too little focus on how much we get with the tools we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e704	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e707	In the context of the debate on the throne, the Progress Party promoted a proposal for an orientation in Stortinget on the Norwegian positions ahead of the Copenhagen meeting. That proposal was converted into a transmission proposal at the request of the Government Parties. It gave me every reason to believe that the government would fulfill this. As I can see, no information has yet been reported to Stortinget. I just want to remind the Prime Minister of this and ask when we can expect this briefing to be given, so that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss these questions in good time before the Copenhagen negotiations begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e712	I allow myself to remind myself that all speech should be directed through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e715	Did I forget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e720	It is a very important question the representative Jensen is now addressing, and it will be followed up. After all, we have always had ways of getting into dialogue with the Storting before the kind of important international negotiations. The most common has been in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. There may also be other ways to consult Stortinget. We still want to have contact with the Storting about what is the best way to do it, but that we are going to have discussions with Stortinget about the Norwegian negotiating positions, I believe it is obvious, and the Government will follow it up. It's the Stortinget that's earned, and we've earned it. Then we'll get back to and agree on the form of it. In the term ‘climate settlement’ I add something more than that, but we get to sit down and discuss the Norwegian positions with Stortinget. And now we have an Environment Minister and a climate minister, so now we have two pieces that can take care of it, as well as that I should also be involved in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e725	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e728	The right fully shares the desire for a strong agreement in Copenhagen – an agreement that sets both strict objectives and not least contributes to concrete action. What you can see is that the world needs an agreement by 2050, which actually helps the richest countries reduce their emissions by about half. 90 pst. That means we can't just focus on quotas. I believe that the Prime Minister will become mono-man in his approach to the issue when he so strongly raises the quota issue. It is an important part of this, but at the same time we need to take action in Norway to cut Norway’s emissions. I believe that the Soria Moria II declaration is good when it is said that by 2020 an agreement must be put in place that reduces Norwegian emissions by about 40 pst. That's a minimum. But the Soria Moria II statement also says that about equal emissions per year. The people around the world will be the principle. So the question to the Prime Minister is, how do you use it when you're talking about quotas alone on the question from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e735	I am too many instruments – investment in rail, research, Enova and many measures – but I am also a member of quotas, like many others who are concerned with climate issues. It is the instrument that gives the greatest reductions, and that gives the safest reductions, because one simply puts a ceiling on permitted emissions, and it is not allowed to go over it. That's one of the big benefits of quotas. The second major advantage of allowances is that it is the polluter who pays. And the third big advantage of allowances is that it's going to make Norwegian companies and other countries' businesses mobilise massively to develop environmentally friendly technology, because if they don't, they either have to buy allowances – it costs them a lot of money – or they can sell allowances if they reduce emissions. In any case, it's amazing what the market gets for just one message that it's expensive to pollute and profitable to clean. So that's what's important, that it just mobilises the entire private business to reduce emissions, both in the rest of the world and in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e740	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e743	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear that all forces must be deployed to succeed in an agreement in Copenhagen. Yeah, we have a climate deal. It is also to be over-fulfilled, as the only agreement in the world, as the Prime Minister says, but it is important that we move forward in relation to this climate agreement and that the intentions that lie there are being followed up. In the last two days, there has been a lookout both in today's business and in the class struggle that oil and energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen is putting the full-scale cleaning of Mongstad on the way. This is one tool and one point emission that will make a big difference on the day we can clean this up. My question to the Prime Minister will be: Can the Prime Minister confirm one week after the state budget has been presented that Mongstad does not keep the progress plan that the Stortinget has previously dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e752	We're in Mongstad. Significant amounts have been allocated, planters are in progress there, and budget appropriations are now increasing by half a billion, a total of DKK 3.5 billion, for the development of carbon capture. So there's the money, that's where we're going, and that's where we're going. That's good, and that's important. But the main reason why it's important is that it can develop technology. Carbon capture is currently not a good enough technology, and therefore it is being used to an excessive extent. That's why we want to develop the technology so that more people can put it into use. We haven't changed the plans we have for progress. We'll bet what we can, and then we'll follow the project and come back to Stortinget if there's new information about progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e760	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e763	In the evening post today, we can read that the PST follows around 200 people in Norway for which they want more information. The most likely well-known of these is Mulla Krekar, a person who goes free in Norway, who was targeted in 2003 for terrorism, which was targeted in 2004 for participation in attempted killings and suicide bombing, which was placed on the United Nations terrorist list in 2006, which was adopted by the Supreme Court in 2007, and which was suspected in a Swiss terrorist financing case by September this year at the latest. In the same essay in the evening post today, the outgoing PST boss refers to a meeting with the U.D., where he has almost presented a recipe on how to get Mulla Krekar out of Norway. My first question is whether the Prime Minister knows about this meeting, because there is nothing to hide that it has been a meeting. And when Bjørn Jahnsen, head of communication in the U.D., who also confirms this in the evening post today, has almost considered the views that the PST boss has made, as ‘personal’ opinions, I am a little worried. If the U.D. has met with the PST Chief in Norway, it might be thought that it was a little more serious than seeing the views of the PST Chief as personal statements. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it known about the ‘prescription’ that the PST Chief, Jørn Holme, has presented to the U.D.? And will the Prime Minister possibly provide the Stortinget with information about this type of recipe?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e770	Firstly, Mulla Krekar has been expelled from Norway, and we want to implement, enforce, that expulsion decision as soon as possible. But this must be done under the international agreements Norway and other countries have signed on security against the death penalty, torture and inhumane treatment, and we are committed to complying with international law and justice in this matter as well. So when it comes to the issue of prosecution in Norway, it is the courts that decide it, not the Prime Minister. As for what the PST manager has brought up with the U.D., I am informed that there has been such a meeting. I am also informed that there is ongoing contact between the PST, the U.D., the Ministry of Justice and other authorities – that is part of the ongoing cooperation we have. In those meetings and in those contacts, there is discussion of many individual questions, including how to implement, implement, expel the decision of Mulla Krekar. The recordings that the U.D. has received from the PST, including the new recording, bring with it the Norwegian authorities and assess and see if there are any ideas that can be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e779	I record that the Prime Minister is at least familiar with the meeting, and that there have been new recordings from the PST manager. It seems to me to be such a character and so interesting that the Storting should get information about the nature of these new recordings. Because this year after year we have been trying to find a solution for sending mulla crickets out of the country. It has been exposed and exposed, and international agreements have been rested all the way. If this is the case, if there are any recordings from the PST manager – I expect that when there is a recording from that side, it is also in line with all international agreements, I can't believe anything else – I think the Prime Minister and the Government would have been well served to provide the Stortinget with information about this. The PST manager is quite clear that the Krekar should be expelled and expelled, and still poses a threat to the security of the state. But in the same breath I see that Brynjar Meling, the lawyer of Krekar, believes that «the matter will remain unresolved». And that could be my last challenge to the Prime Minister: Whom does he trust most in, Jørn Holme or Brynjar Meling, who is the lawyer of the Krekar?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e786	I just want to stress that we are concerned that the expulsion decision can and will be implemented. At the same time, we are committed to doing so within the framework of international agreements, law and law that Norway supports. So there's a lot of meetings, lots of contacts between PST and different parts of the public administration system, that's the U.D., the Ministry of Justice and others, and we'll continue this dialogue to see if there's any way to implement this expulsion decision. That's the main message, and we're going to work on it intensely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e791	Follow-up questions are given – first Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e794	In the meeting, the PST Chief of Staff aired his ‘personal thoughts’, as expressed by the Head of Communications Jahnsen. The PST manager has enormous competence. He has great professional weight in a number of areas. When the PST manager expresses his professional thoughts, I think it's worth listening to. Doesn't the Prime Minister think that they think a professional who the PST boss has is worth listening to and is worth bringing on to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e799	It's absolutely worth listening to the PST boss. The government has done that, I've done that – many times – and we're going to keep listening to him. Then we're going to have contact and dialogue with Stortinget in a perfectly normal way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e804	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e807	I note that the Prime Minister will, of course, follow up the expulsion decision taken by Erna Solberg in 2003, which has since been confirmed by the Supreme Court. But there's reason to question the Government's will to do something about this, at least if you're going to base the Chief of Communications Jahnsen's statements. So he says, and I want to repeat it: ‘He’ – i.e. Holme – ‘came up with some personal thoughts about the Krekar case, but we did not see this as formal advice.’ So ask the Evening Post: ‘Do you want to include these thoughts in your further work on the Krekar case?’ Jahnsen answers: ‘All thoughts and recordings are received with thanks and evaluation’. Is it in that way that the Prime Minister also perceives formal advice from the PST Chief, that he is one of many who makes representations in the matter, or is this assessed in a slightly more serious way? Does the Prime Minister think that the statements made by the Head of Communications Jahnsen in the U.D. were particularly wise, or were they a little arrogant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e826	We're going to evaluate those recordings in a thorough and proper way, because we're interested in exhibiting mulla crickets as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e832	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e835	I am so glad that the Prime Minister says what he says, and that he wants this matter far ahead in his consciousness. What matters to me is that the government and the prime minister show that they actually have the foot on the ball here, and that the information they get, and not least the advice they get, is taken seriously. Can we expect the Government and the Prime Minister, on the basis of the advice now given, to act quickly so that the judgment of the Supreme Court can be enforced?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e842	I want to make sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and other relevant authorities are making a quick assessment of the recordings made by the PST Director.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e847	We move on to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e850	The Prime Minister is not in the salutary corner today, but I'm going to try a new question anyway. We're now in a situation where there's going to be a pretty serious response to the fact that it looks like we're getting closer to a stronger spread of swine flu, or influenza A H1N1. We see that some schools have a dramatic increase in sick leave, and the number of tests that are now positive is increasing dramatically. Overseeing the Bjørn Iversen at the Institute of Public Health believes that maybe up to 20 pst. of the population — or 1 million people — may be infected around Christmastime. Health Director Bjørn-Inge Larsen says that the studies in the last few days show that the danger of people outside the risk groups becoming seriously ill and perhaps dying of swine flu is now greater than it looked before, among other things. The number of persons outside the risk group who will be treated intensively in the respiratory system is now increased – based on assumptions – from 20 pst. to 30 pst. Health authorities will consider this week whether they will recommend vaccination of all. Fortunately, there are enough vaccines purchased. Enough equipment has been purchased in the hospitals. The big question is how one might have intended to organise and carry out a vaccination of the entire population. Previous forecasts showed that the infection peak could occur around September. In reality, two months extra time has now been given to the authorities to prepare for the organisation of vaccination and preparedness. The organisation is left to the individual municipality. Does the Prime Minister now feel confident that this time has been spent, so that all municipalities are now prepared to initiate vaccination of the whole population and do health authorities have an overview of the state and situation of the municipalities in relation to the possibilities of implementing such advice from health authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e861	The government and the Ministry of Health have taken this situation seriously ever since the first notifications came. There have been periods when I have felt that it has not been as agreed that there has been a serious pandemic, but now I feel that there is a very broad consensus that this is something we should take for granted. Therefore, a significant number of vaccines have been purchased. Norway is among the earliest outpatient countries that have bought the most vaccines compared to the population. It also enables us to vaccinate many, and we are better rusted than very many other countries. As far as vaccination is concerned, we have been busy listening to professional advice on both purchase and implementation. It is the National Institute of Public Health and the Health Directorate that assesses the disease situation on an ongoing basis and advises the Ministry of Health. What is clear is that we have now decided to start with the vaccination of priority groups: pregnant women, persons with chronic respiratory diseases, with chronic cardiovascular diseases and others at risk. We have started working with the municipalities to facilitate extensive vaccination under the direction of the municipalities. I am sure that community health services, primary health services, are the best means of ensuring extensive vaccination, whether it is of the whole population or large sections of the population. And the municipalities are about to prepare it. They are also in the process of implementing vaccination of the risk group. Then we must constantly listen to the professional authorities if we are to adjust and improve this apparatus along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e870	There is no doubt that the municipalities are entitled to implement this. The question is whether it has been right to allow the municipalities to implement all of this in their own way, so that it is now very unclear to the population how to deal with this. If you go to Pandemi.no, you will be told to contact the municipality. If you contact the municipality and look up the Internet pages of most municipalities today, you will find that you are recommended to contact the local authority. Taking contact with the decision maker will in most cases be informed that they have not yet received information on how to deal with this. The Medical Association calls for clearer follow-up by the central health authorities, especially with regard to the role of the prescriber. In Lillesand, Grimstad and Fromand, one says that one has to wait 14 days before getting a vaccine because they have to start organizing the distribution of the vaccine. So they do that at the time when the vaccine is on its way to the municipality. Does the Prime Minister feel confident that health authorities have an overview that all municipalities in Norway are now able to carry out vaccination for the whole population at the time recommended by health authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e879	At least we've spent a lot of time in the government constantly following the advice that came from the health authorities, from the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. So we've always been concerned about being flexible when new challenges and new problems arise. This means that we are going to follow up with the municipalities and are constantly working to ensure that the capacity there is good enough. When we receive concerns messages, for example: from the Medical Association, we take them in, evaluate them and have dialogue with them on the challenges they address. So we do what we can. We have very close cooperation with the health authorities and the municipalities. Then we're going to develop and adjust the strategy along the way depending on the experience we're reaping.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e886	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e889	Only in the case of sick messages can the decision-makers experience contact from 43 000 new people with influenza per year. week. In addition, those who are to be vaccinated and treated and the ordinary patients and, where appropriate, the local authorities’ expectation that they will contribute to mass vaccination. However, no information has been provided on the priorities to be taken by decision-makers in this situation. Tariffs have not been established to allow additional personnel to be taken in. It is not clear whether there will be temporary changes in the legislation on search messages in such a situation. And it's not clear what voluntary solutions can be used in our hospitals using overtime, shifted working hours, etc. When all these questions are still unanswered and the vaccination starts in a few days and the infection increases, does the Prime Minister believe that our health authorities have spent the extra time they have received, these two months, making sense? And is this sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e894	Health authorities have constantly expanded their capacity, and the Government has also adopted different regulations and extended powers such as: can help us get new and extra staff into the healthcare system. With regard to the economic side, there have been significant additional appropriations over the year that have made it possible to provide financial compensation to people who had to be ordered to implement/contribute to vaccination. Then there are many individual issues that remain, and that's why the Ministry of Health keeps following up and having close dialogue with the Health Directorate, the Public Health Institute and the municipalities to solve them along the way. I don't dare to go into all of these individual questions here, but I just want to assure the Storting that the Government and the Minister of Health are very concerned about the close follow-up and practical arrangements of comprehensive vaccination to the extent that it is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e902	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e905	Despite the fact that we have had relatively good and long time to prepare a vaccination program in front of this pandemic, the media and most people perceive it as giving many conflicting messages. More and more people now say they don't want to be vaccinated. You also experience cows, uncertainties, even in permanent doctors, where, when, who, etc. What worries me is that if more and more people say no, vaccination will also give less effect. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to launch a broad information and uniform campaign on vaccination, so that we can achieve the widest possible choice of vaccination to obtain the best possible result?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e912	I want to assure myself and have assured myself that the professional authorities are working intensively on the matter, that they are getting the tools they are working on in order to carry out extensive vaccination, and therefore, during 2009, considerable additional appropriations have been made for the purchase of vaccines. Therefore, a wide range of regulations, rules and powers have been adopted to enable us to carry out this vaccination and, if necessary, step it up. But the government is going to do these things in close dialogue with the professional authorities. And we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e917	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e920	That's 20 pst. of the population who, according to the Evening Post, have said a clear yes to taking the vaccine, and as many as 64 pst. who has said no. It said to read in the Evening Post yesterday. The background for this is a great uncertainty. There is different advice from different professional communities on whether to take the vaccine or not to take the vaccine and, in practical terms, it is not known where to get the vaccine. We get feedback that even regular doctors are not sure, so when it comes to the whole question of whether or not to take a vaccine, there is a very high responsibility for the individual in the population. Of course, the individual should finally make the final choice, but when it is also uncertain about whether or not to take the vaccine, even in the case of the risk groups, we have a major problem. The implementation plan in the municipalities cracks in every direction, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is not important to get a uniform plan from the authorities to all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e927	Firstly, the authorities — the Government and the Ministry of Health — have clearly identified the risk groups that are now to be prioritised. That's what you're doing, and that's what we're doing in the first place. We have also gone to the purchase of significant quantities of vaccines in order to implement them and to be prepared for further escalation. Then we have started working together with the municipalities to carry out vaccination under the direction of the municipal health services. It is a little uncertain what the representative thinks is consistent. I am absolutely sure that there will be a different system in Utsira and Oslo, but it is essential that the municipalities are responsible. They must carry this out in their municipalities. It'll be a little bit different, because the municipalities are different. But you're going to have offers all over the country, and I want to make sure that we get, in cooperation with the municipalities and health authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e934	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e940	There will be some changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Torgeir Tåldal and Gunnar Gundersen, respectively, to the Minister for Finance, will be postponed until the next Question Time after consultation between the questioners and the Council of State. Question 6, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen of the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Questions 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 from the representatives Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Hans Olav Syversen, Laila Davøy, Bent Höie and Sonja Irene Sjøli respectively to the Minister of Health and Welfare, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e959	From the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister for Finance: ‘For years the Ofoot Firen IKS has used vans with installed seats for smoke diving equipment in their emergency cars. The seats are not in use during the call-out, but are there for the attachment upon arrival at the point of damage. A new regulation now makes it impossible for the Ministry of Finance to acquire cars for smoke divers at favourable prices. The new rules require cars to be registered as a passenger car, which makes cars over NOK 100 000 more expensive for purchases. Will the Council of State amend this Regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e971	From the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance: ‘The ratio of equivalency to market values for dwellings varies widely across the country. The results may be both unfair and illogical. The government proposes in the State budget a major and fundamental transformation of this system, and the papers that replace an injustice with a new one are already many. Does not the Council of State see that this is such a major and fundamental reform that it should receive a completely different treatment than to come as a surprise in a state budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e979	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e987	With the permission of the President, let me congratulate the Council of State on the appointment of the Minister of Transport, first and last hour. I look forward to many constructive dialogues on important issues of transport and can promise many questions in this regard. So to today's question: ‘According to the State Road Service’s own measurements, 1 km of every mile of road by road has become worse in the period 2005-2009. According to calculations carried out for KS, the maintenance allowance on the national roads transferred by the State to the counties from 1 January 2010, is DKK 10 billion. The legacy of existing county roads is NOK 12 billion. The national audit criticises in a new report management and control of the operation and maintenance of roads. The accident commission has again pointed to a poor path as a cause of death accident. What does the Council of State do to improve road quality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1002	Let me first of all thank you for the congratulations and confirm that I am also looking forward to constructive dialogue on issues that are important to many in this country, during the vignette transport. So to the answer: the short answer is that much more means are to be used to develop the road network for which the county authorities are responsible, and that a much more systematic work is to be done to ensure good and even quality of the operational and maintenance work. The report to the National Audit Office, to which Mr Sortevik refers, gives strong criticism of the operation and maintenance of the road network. The report states that there is a significant lack of more than half of the work done. The National Audit Office further points out that, among other things: there is a particular serious lack of internal reporting, so that there is no comprehensive overview of the quality of the work carried out. The National Audit Office has pointed to relationships that I take most seriously. I know that my predecessor has had a strong focus on the performance of the operational and maintenance tasks. Among other things, the transport industry points out that the standard of operation on the roads has been more uneven. This is why the Ministry has drawn up functional contracts with the Directorate of Roads and asked for specific reports to that effect. In recent years, the Directorate of Roads has been working on several measures to improve the functioning of the service contracts. So there's always work to change a lot of what the National Audit Office points to. The terms and conditions of the service contracts of the contractors with the State Road Service shall be further specified. Furthermore, a new reporting system from the State Road Administration to the Ministry of Transport will be implemented from 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1025	I thank the Council of State for the answer. That's enough of what it boils down to, is that there's more money to do, and the faster, in order for us to get better road standards. What is particularly worrying is the road network to be taken over by county councils from the New Year. If you give me $1 billion more per. So it's going to take 20 years to cover today's maintenance kit. The government's measures to further reduce this time are the provision of loans to county councils to roads that the government itself did not maintain when the state was a roadkeeper. Does the Council of State really believe that there is a sound road policy, a road policy that will provide better roads and fewer traffic accidents, when we see that we have a 20-year time perspective – and perhaps more than 20 years – to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1034	Indeed, from 2010 onwards, national roads will be transferred to county municipalities, and the government will increase the limits of county roads by DKK 1 billion and offer a loan scheme. Over time, there will be room for catching up on the road network taken over by county authorities. But let me underline: So the government has seen the need for a more thorough review of the system of function contracts. In the national transport plan, an evaluation of the competitive outsourcing of operational and maintenance tasks has been announced. The background was the large increase in the cost of rolling the contracts after five years, in 2008-2009. The evaluation will be completed in March 2010. I don't want to ignore the fact that it's time to take a bigger grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1039	I thank you again for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to use the money properly, but it is probably also so important to increase the funds to improve road quality. Then, building new roads is perhaps the very best measure. We see in the 2010 state budget that there is still a deficit of well over DKK 1 billion in the investment programme for new roads compared to the national transport plan presented by the Government, which was adopted in June. Bad roads generate additional transport costs and many traffic accidents. And then I repeat: can the Council of State defend that poor road standards and poorly maintained roads should be the main picture in Norway for many years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1046	I share the concerns of Mr Sortevik when it comes to road cover. But here it's taking important steps, and it's going to go on. There's no doubt that there's a big lag here. Let me say that in the period that we now have behind us, a lucky person has had a huge increase. It is also in the year’s budget, and including measures to maintain the asphalt cover, it will improve the quality of road surface on the national road network in 2009. A significant increase in road maintenance is foreseen in the national transport plan, which also applies to road-covered areas. The level of maintenance of the road surface in the 2009 budget balance has been proposed further in 2010. So there are still improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1057	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Research and Higher Education Tora Aasland: ‘The government’s proposal for a State budget implies a record of the use of oil money, and it would be thought that the most important thing could be given priority. On 14 October, however, we can read that the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Environmental and Bioscience expresses great disappointment that it is 120 million. kr for universities. The University of Environment and Life Sciences receives 9.7 million. kr less than assumed. The Ministry of Knowledge cannot explain the reason for this. Can the State Council clarify whether lower or higher funding will be made available to universities in 2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1066	I am happy to say that the Council of State can clarify this, and also that there will be higher grants to universities in 2010. The draft budget for programme category 07.60, which this is about, amounts to NOK 24.5 billion. This is a nominal growth of 931 million. kr from the year’s budget to the 2010 budget and corresponds to a real increase of 178 million. kr. I would therefore like to stress that there is no cut in the allocation to universities. The media statement to which the representative refers relates to a mistake in briefing universities and colleges, what we call the ‘blue book’, about the institutional distribution of funds in the 2010 budget. There it was subtracted 121 million. DKK too much in the allocation of grants to universities. This meant that the 2010 budget proposal table per year. institutions showed wrong amounts for universities but not for the other institutions. But the overall framework of the chapter was correct. This error has been corrected in the revised version of the 2010 state budget proposals for universities and colleges that have now been sent to the institutions and that have also been received by the Stortinget. The creation implies a total of 121 million. kr has been returned to the distribution per. university, and thus does not imply any change for the other institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1075	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that UMB and other universities will nevertheless be able to cover the annual costs of previously allocated study places. I also hope that the Council of State will find several errors in this category in the «blue book». That would be a good promise for the universities of the year to come. For the background steppe, it seems to me that the university and higher education sectors are starving throughout the last period, and this affects the supply of students and the quality of education. The University of Ås has not got one penny to upgrade the good and old, honorable building mass, despite the fact that lists of its great needs have been provided for several years. How has the Council of State planned to resume the large maintenance run on the old magnificent buildings of the UMB in time before the adoption by the Stortinget of the appropriations for the transfer of Norway's veterinary high school and the Veterinary Institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1082	I'll give my answer in three points. Firstly, in this year's budget, we have given priority to new places of study. I'm not familiar with the description given by the representative of the situation of universities and colleges. We think it's important to bet on new places of study, and we've allocated about 300 million. To follow up on what we have already allocated in the revised national budget this year to be early on meeting this new educational wave. In terms of buildings and maintenance, I am very aware of the situation, both at the University of Ås and elsewhere, and I can tell the representative that for 2010 the funds for different construction projects amounting to NOK 1 billion, overall. It's under State Building, mostly, and in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration's budget. But for me, it has been an important task, when we got the building queue loose, to say that, and started construction projects several times, that we can also spend money on both hard needed new buildings and for important maintenance. So I'll follow up with the frames I have, and I'm very aware of the situation in Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1093	I would also like to comment that I think it's good, with the understanding I've been given that the 120 million. NOK that was included in the calculation errors, has not gone beyond anything else. However, I would like to ask the Council of State what a stepping-up plan the Council of State has with regard to new fully funded training places for the education institutions in Oslo and Akershus to meet the demand increase in the area up to 2020, cf. The cohort forecast of the Star Island Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1100	I don't think the Star Island Committee has made any such prognosis. It is our department, the Ministry of Knowledge, which, in a big message that we have called the Education Line, has provided the basis for Stortinget to discuss this matter. It is not yet discussed, and I look forward to the discussion with the Stortinget on how we can best meet exactly the educational needs that lie here. We've been out early. We have allocated over 3,000 posts in the revised budget, followed up the positions in the 2009 budget, increased it and followed up everything we have allocated to it. Then it is important for us to have good grip on what is needed by equipment, material conditions, the quality of education and the provision of room for new students. Because we in the Government are concerned that new students are going to have room for us, but it's not going to go beyond the quality of education, and it's not going to go beyond the research at our institutions. That's why it's important that we have an overall grip, and the government has laid a basis for this discussion in the paper on the Education Line, which Stortinget now has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1109	Then we move on to the next question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to Minister of Defence Grete Faremo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1116	First of all, I would like to congratulate Grete Faremo on the appointment of the Council of State and to wish her the best of luck in the department. So to the question: ‘The Government is planning to terminate the Norwegian infantry unit in PRT Meymaneh, Afghanistan, as early as mid-2010. On what security grounds is it that the Government proposes such liquidation and has the decision been discussed with the Afghan authorities and NATO?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1131	The objective of NATO's involvement in Afghanistan is that the Afghans themselves should ensure their own security. Norway has long worked to give greater emphasis to such an ‘afghanisation’ of efforts. Therefore, in line with this, our contribution will gradually turn against a clearer support role for Afghan security forces. We went into Afghanistan with our allies and stay in the country as long as NATO stays, but of course we don't want to stay in Afghanistan anymore than necessary. The strategic plan of the ISAF team provides for a gradual transfer of primary responsibility for security to the Afghan authorities in the various provinces as circumstances permit. Faryab has long been regarded as a candidate among the next provinces where security responsibilities are transferred. Following such a transfer, the role of ISAF will be to support Afghan security forces in their work. This was taken into account during the planning of Norwegian strength contributions to Afghanistan in 2010, and a change in the balance between infantry forces and training forces was planned. However, changes are often rapid in Afghanistan and it is therefore difficult to have full predictability when a defence budget is planned. The reason why we are now adjusting the timing of the distortion of strength contributions is that the assumptions underlying the formulations of the State budget have changed significantly. The security situation has also worsened in northern Afghanistan and is now critical in some vulnerable areas. At the same time, it has been demonstrated that the planned construction of Afghan security forces in Faryab next year will not take place. It is also not likely to increase other allied forces in Faryab, as previously assumed. Let me therefore clarify the following: The government has always been clear that no reduction of Norwegian involvement has been planned in Afghanistan in 2010. The government is committed to both the Afghan people and NATO. What is going to happen is a gradual rotation of the tasks of our forces today in the direction of more training and mentoring of Afghan forces. This happens as the security situation permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1149	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am very pleased with the clarification that the Council of State has put on the table today, for it was, to say it mildly, very, very necessary. The Council of State may choose to answer it if she wants to, but there is no doubt from my point of view that during this autumn the Government has contributed to a strong ambiguity around the Norwegian line in Afghanistan. Both in the government statement and in the budget proposal there have been wordings that have indicated a completely different direction, which fortunately now have been punctuated by the response of the Council of State. Because it is precisely a local situation where the uprising activity has increased and the security situation has deteriorated that we need to take into account, both in the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1155	I'm glad to hear the representative of Kristiansen now confirm that we have an equal understanding of this situation. As a new Minister of Defence, I am very keen to contribute to a good dialogue, including with the Right, on these important issues, so that we can continue to work in this important area with full force.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1161	Once again, I thank you for the answer, because it's a very useful and good clarification, not least for the Norwegian forces that are doing their service in Afghanistan, and that are really at the most acute end when we talk about the Norwegian defence. So stability and long-termity are key words that the Right obviously want to underline, and I'm pleased with the response that the Council of State is now giving here. I also see that Norwegian alone, which has been a strong wish of some of the government partners for some time, will no longer be a topical issue, and I also see that the new Council of State for the future will have a close and good dialogue on the Norwegian presence and Norwegian presence, including with the Afghan authorities and NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1167	I am pleased to note that we in Norway actually have a broad consensus both here in the Chamber and in the people about our efforts in Afghanistan. I believe we are on, and I will contribute to, working to maintain the broad consensus we have had in Norway on Norwegian Afghanistan policy. As I said, I invite the representative of Kristiansen and Right to work closely on this, so that there is no international doubt about where Norway stands in this demanding case. And as has already been said, we have about 500 soldiers in Afghanistan who make a formidable effort under some very demanding conditions, and that's exactly why this broad consensus is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1177	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1180	I have the following short and concise questions to the Minister: ‘Is there a basis in the Planning and Building Act for using social and/or medical conditions as a basis for granting exemptions from municipal regulatory plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1187	The Planning and Building Act has general provisions on exemptions, which also apply to regulatory plans. It is the municipality that decides on applications for a derogation and the decision of the municipality may be appealed to the county council. The rules on exemptions have been made clearer in the new Law on Planning and Building and at the same time tightened up. In the proposal for a new law, the rules on exemptions are commented on. It has been stated that in cases where there are very special social medical, personal and human considerations, this can be emphasised. At the same time, it is emphasised that such considerations do not normally have a decisive influence on exemptions under the Planning and Building Act. This means that the issue of exemption needs to be considered in a concrete manner on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the circumstances of the site in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1194	The starting point for the question is a matter that concerns Tom Magnar Thomsen from Bamble in Telemark. He was paralyzed from life down after an accident three years ago. He has a plot in Bamble in Telemark that the family has owned for 100 years, where he has applied to the municipality to build an organized dwelling so that he can live there with his family. Today he is referred to living in a multi-storey apartment that is a fire trap. He must live apart from both son and wife. The alternative to building an organized dwelling is an institutional place, and he cannot live with the family. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to what a unanimous commmunautaire said in a remark in the previous period, quite rightly in connection with the Planning and Building Act, but it also has wider relevance. In fact, a unanimous municipal committee, including the representatives of the government parties, said the following: ‘In the context of the work on amendments to the Law on Planning and Building, the Committee will ask the Ministry to consider in more detail how social medical and human considerations can be taken into account in handling applications for exemptions.’ Does the Council of State think this is being maintained in the new law today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1206	Yes, I think it is maintained in the new law. I know the law and the practice of the law both before and now, and I know that there are often very demanding and difficult assessments just when human considerations are inside the picture, as the representative Red Isaac explains. But the Planning and Building Act should not be a law that solves social and medical problems. The Planning and Building Act shall be a law regulating the relationship between the public interest through regulatory plans and the considerations taken into account in the work of the municipality and the considerations to be taken into account in the individual cases. So the dispensation access is there, but it's tightened in. As a result, both the comments of the municipal committee and the various experiences gained from various matters around the country have been followed up. But it's going to take a lot of time for you to get such a derogation. And the considerations of the 100-metre belt, public interests, etc., which relate to regulatory plans, are important to weigh it all against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1213	Today's law clearly provides unreasonable results, as in this example – and there are probably more – where a man with a land that has been owned by the family for 100 years does not have the opportunity to build an organized dwelling there, in an area that is densely built, where it is today – while he is being denied, and where the municipality is then under test by the county council – dwellings are being built, some of them as close as 30 meters to the beach zone, which is obvious within the 100-metre belt. I'm not going to ask the Council of State to comment on the individual matter, but I'm going to ask her: how unreasonable is the outcome of today's legislation to be accepted before the Government will look at a revision that just takes social medicine and human considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1220	I think it's an advantage that you don't open up to take too many such considerations through the use of the Planning and Building Act. I have full confidence that the county council, as the government representative in the county, has evaluated all the aspects of this matter, including those relating to personal, private, medical and social matters. Here's just one thing to do, and that's to sit down and discuss with the different authorities that are responsible, to find a solution that doesn't go beyond what is the public interest, and what is regulated by the laws and plans that exist in such matters as this. It is the Storting that adopts these laws, and it is the Storing that has adopted the Planning and Building Act, as it is now. The county is doing what the Storting has decided. We have a system in which it is fully possible to make an assessment of the individual cases in the county, and in relation to the municipality concerned. But there should be some rigour in these matters, and I am sure that the county has some assessments, other and alternative solutions, in relation to the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1231	From the representative Per Arne Olsen to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘In recent times, Health Minister Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has called for increased use of private healthcare providers to reduce health cows in specialist health services, care and rehabilitation. Unfortunately, this is not to be found in Soria Moria II or in proposals for the government budget. Is the Council of State of the opinion that there is a need to use private providers more in the future, and can we expect this to be government policy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1243	From the representative Jon Jäger Gåsvatn to the Minister for Health and Care: ‘The investment grant for new hospitalisation sites has been at the same level over several years. This means that municipal co-financing is increasing. Especially for municipalities in a difficult economic situation, this will mean that some do not have the resources to build new health homes, all the time when the investment grant is not increased. Will the Council of State consider increasing the grant for the construction of new nursing homes, so that all municipalities with needs are given a real opportunity to make use of the grant scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1255	From the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘Russ abuse is an important cause of poverty and exclusion from society. The waiting time for drug users entitled to treatment has increased in recent years. At the same time, the available capacity of several drug institutions is owned by non-profit actors, and some institutions have also had to close down because health regions have abandoned contracts. Is the State Council satisfied with the drug field in the State budget and with the outsourcing of drug users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1267	From the representative of Laila Davay to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘Christian People’s Party wants a dental reform to ensure that dental health is financed as other health services. As a very first and highest priority step towards the full implementation of such a reform, the current system of freedom of payment must be extended to long-term social assistance beneficiaries. It is also necessary to ensure free treatment for other groups with similar low disposable income. This must be gradually extended to all persons with income below 2 G. Will the Council of State agree with these proposals of the Christian People's Party?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1279	From the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘Does the Government intend to ensure that people from all over the country with eating disorders are given the opportunity to choose treatment at the Capio Anorexia Centre in Fredrikstad if it is the offer that can provide help as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1289	From the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘The government statement by the Government of Stoltenberg II stated that the Government will ensure rehabilitation and training for all those who need it. This wording has been deleted in the new Government Declaration and replaced by a wording that provides sufficient resources for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. What is the reason why ambitions in this area have been reduced, and what is sufficient resources to the field in the Council of State’s assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1297	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1304	I am delighted to ask the Minister the following questions: ‘The Christian People’s Party lacks more offensive and targeted measures against poverty in the budget. The government does nothing to increase social aid rates, either mandatory minimum rates or real increases in norms – despite the fact that many red-greens in the election campaign thought this was the main tool to combat poverty. Will the Council of State respond to the Christian People's Party's proposal for higher, binding minimum rates and regulatory certainty that child welfare and cash support are excluded from the measurement of social assistance?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1313	I do not agree that increasing social assistance rates in itself is the most important tool for combating poverty. Social assistance is a last safety net, and not a long-term solution for the individual. Sustained low incomes are often linked to a lack of links with the labour market, and the possibility of getting into work is therefore very important. The government has a number of targeted measures against poverty. The Nav reform shall make it easier for individuals to receive proper and planned assistance. Competence and development measures to prevent and reduce poverty among families with children and to respond to children and young people at risk continue in 2010. I would also like to highlight the qualification programme, which will contribute to increased self-sufficiency and quality of life, so that as little as possible will be dependent on economic social assistance for a longer period of time. Qualification aid is regulated in line with the basic amount of population protection, and the programme will be an offer in all municipalities in 2010. In order to improve the economic situation and living conditions of persons receiving social assistance, the Government has increased the rate of government guidelines for measuring social benefits for living by 5 pst. in addition to price increases in 2007 and 2009. As part of the review of the State guidelines on economic welfare, the Ministry received in 2008 surveys from the Statistical Central Bureau and from Telemarksforschung, Bø. One main finding is that there are small differences between municipalities related to average social assistance paid, and that the variation does not appear to be related to the indicative rates. The studies also show that long-term beneficiaries of social assistance have, on average, significantly higher income than the sum of indicative rates and the needs of housing costs. The guidelines have helped to balance the differences between municipal social assistance rates, and most municipalities now have rates similar to those of the country’s guidance. The guidelines have had a normative effect on the treatment of complaints by the county councillors and have contributed to a greater predictability for social assistance applicants. I see that there may be a need to clarify and elaborate the guidance rates in some areas. I would therefore like to assess the extent to which these research reports and the position of the Distribution Committee indicate that some adjustments should be made to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1330	I would like to thank you for your answer, and I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Councillor Rigmor Aasrud on exciting and new challenges and look forward to constructive cooperation here in Stortinget. I also thought it very happy, as the Council of State concluded now, that she is willing to look at just to clarify something of the legislation, and adjust it. But then I want to say with regard to what's going on at the social aid stakes, that this is not something the Christian People's Party says. So it's the Welfare Alliance, which represents many organizations – 27 organisations – working with poverty, which says that the only tool that really had monna would have been to increase social aid efforts. After all, Rigmor Aasrud has not been involved in the design of the budget. Is it going to benefit from the months ahead to adjust the budget in the Storting with a view to increasing social assistance rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1341	I am pleased that the representative Hareide agrees with the Government that it is important that we have a targeted effort against poverty. The government has put forward many measures to help more people get out of poverty, and the main measure is the qualification programme. We'll strengthen that by 209 million. kr in the State budget for 2010. In addition, the appropriations for housing aid are also increased by 427 million. NOK as a result of the conversion we made on 1 July 2009. In addition, there are measures related to those with drug problems, and we make a big boost in school. I believe that, together, we are making a good run for more people to be more well-being through the measures we have proposed in the current state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1348	I thank you again for your answer and am happy that the Government is just e.g. through the qualification programme, look at targeted actions taken. We may be a few that work is on a general basis the most important measure to limit poverty, but I believe that what goes on at social aid rates, which we are discussing here, is particularly important, and I believe the Velferd Alliance is right in what they say, that it is the individual measure that is most important for those who fall outside the working world. I want to challenge the state councils for exactly what is involved in cash support and child welfare. We know that some places are counted on the basis, and other places are not included in the calculation. Does the Council of State understand that one can experience it as unfair that the individual places are being counted on the basis, while the other places are not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1355	I think it's important that we have a social assistance that's adapted to the individual. Therefore, the municipalities are responsible for measuring benefits under the social assistance scheme. Then you have to see the individual and the challenges that each individual has. And then I have faith that those who sit closest to those who need help can give the best answers as to what kind of benefits the individual should have. That's why I'm also skeptical about having minimum rates of social assistance, because I'm afraid it could be maximum rates. Once again, I think you have to see the relationship between what the individual has in income and what the individual has in expenditure, and that we get the best result by seeing things in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1365	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: «The government prioritises the ordinary unemployed with 2 000 jobs in the State budget at a time when 36 000 people with disabilities are waiting for action and the number of people with disabilities is approaching 90000. Unfortunately, this is not an active return bet, although increased efforts on the qualification programme are good. Will the Council assess a more targeted effort with a focus on overall responses, with more funds earmarked for those in need ofcloser follow-up and longer action chains?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1374	In St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, it was proposed to make the provision of labour-oriented assistance independent of the target group to which it belongs and of the income security to which it is entitled. The size of the measure was in line with the Government's proposal in the examination of the notification, see: Inner. S. No 148 for 2006-2007. This was, among other things: followed up by a new Regulation on labour-oriented measures which entered into force on 1 January 2009. An action shall be necessary and appropriate in accordance with the Regulation, so that the participant shall obtain or retain gainful employment. The choice, design and duration of actions shall be carried out in cooperation with the user. The allocation of labour market measures for 2010 provides for some 78 000 action sites. Within this overall volume of measures, vulnerable groups in the labour market shall be given priority. It has been established by the Government that persons with reduced working capacity in need of labour-oriented assistance are to be offered the necessary and appropriate measures as soon as possible. Nevertheless, there will be people in monitoring and waiting phases, but unjustified waiting times must be avoided. The last few years have seen the development of measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. This applies, inter alia, to: offer of work-oriented rehabilitation and an experiment with a temporary wage subsidy. This scheme is proposed to increase by up to 1000 new action sites in 2010. At the same time, follow-up services have also been developed for both sick and disabled people. From 1 March 2010, redundancy benefits will replace rehabilitation benefits,return benefits and time-limited unpaid pay. There is also a statutory right to assess their need for assistance in order to maintain or obtain work. The work performance assessment will include, inter alia: be central to the choice of appropriate measures. The changes facilitate earlier and closer follow-up and speedier return to work or activity. Users will, as before, have access to all work-oriented measures that can help them get into regular work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1383	I thank you for a thorough reply from the Council of State. We are at a time when fewer and fewer people with disabilities are on the move, while the number of people with disabilities is increasing, and to all intents and purposes we do not have the power to spend our money on measures for 2009. In view of this, the Christian People's Party hopes that both unused funds for 2009 and future appropriations for 2010 will be spent on proper measures to increase employment and activity. That is why we believe that the number of jobs should be increased. In the relaying companies, there is available capacity, while the queues at Nav are quite long.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1390	I share the representative's concern that we have unused funds in the action area in 2009. We have to work on it. I agree that this is a challenge for us. At the same time, I'm concerned that we have a system that allows us to map those who need it, in a very good way, so that we can initiate the right actions. I think that if we don't commit to good screening work, we can quickly get people into actions that aren't adapted to the individual. It must therefore be a key challenge for us in the future to have a good monitoring job, so that we can adapt the measures we are going to take, based on the individual’s ability to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1395	Does the Council of State consider that since Nav has quite long queues and that the management companies have free capacity, can any of the monitoring be carried out in the reconnaissance companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1400	Yeah, we're open to see other ways of doing the mapping job. It will be possible to help others to do that screening job. And that there's competence out there, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1408	I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘The sick pay payments and the number of unemployed are increasing. Patients with musculoskeletal disorders account for almost half, and in terms of this group, there is clearly a great potential for improvement in keeping people in work. What targeted measures does the Council of State consider to be taken to slow the development of long-term disease in patients with musculo-skeletal disorders, and does the Council of State believe that waiting times in the health sector contribute to the exclusion of more people from work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1417	In 2006, the Government, together with the social partners, agreed to introduce closer follow-up to the sick. This includes follow-up plans from the employer, implementation of dialogue meetings with the sick and targeted action to speed up the return of the sick. The evaluation of the IA agreement that existed in June 2009 concluded that many businesses experience that the follow-up procedures are the right way to work to speed up the return of sick people to work. Although the recent increase in sick leave is very worrying, one cannot conclude that the follow-up does not have an effect. There are also a wide range of other factors affecting the development of sick leave. Prevention of musculoskeletal disorders is a high priority area. The work environment-oriented strategy is to ensure that enterprises themselves prevent health damage and disease through systematic HMS work. The authorities carry out supervisory and guidance activities in vulnerable industries and activities to prevent work-related musculoskeletal disorders and to facilitate workers who have suffered muscle damage. The service provision of the work and welfare centre is targeted at all diagnostic groups. People with musculoskeletal disorders are a large and complex group. Finding a good balance between work and the limitations of the disease is important in monitoring which measures can increase the individual’s ability to work. In 2007, the Government introduced a system for purchasing health and rehabilitation services to speed up the return of sick people to work. It is referred to as the ‘Rasers Back’ scheme. The scheme includes the provision of individual follow-up, clarification and labour-oriented rehabilitation and the provision of treatment in the specialist healthcare service. Since the start of the scheme, there are a total of about 60000 people referred to services related to ‘Repatriates’ in the Labour and Welfare Act and the Special Health Service. The system is now being evaluated. With the new identity-identifiable patient registry, it will be possible to look at the relationship between waiting time and sick leave in the long term, which we do not know for sure about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1430	I thank you for the answer and I agree with the Council of State that everything that happens at the workplace is important. We are also very excited about the outcome of the ‘Responders’ action. I want to go back a little bit to my question as to whether waiting times are important for the sick leave period and getting sick. Overseer Ivar Rossvoll from Trondheim has looked at this with waiting times in a doctoral thesis at Norway's technical-natural-scientific university. The doctoral thesis revealed that many who were waiting for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders through surgery were sickly reported in part of the waiting period, and that the length of the waiting period affected the possibility of getting back to work. The probability of returning to work one year after the operation was nine times less for patients who had waited one year than for those who received treatment after one month. I then ask the government council: does Nav lack an important tool in the toolbox saying when it is not those who can join and contribute to all these sickly patients being diagnosed quickly and receiving prompt treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1439	I agree with Giltun that it is important that we focus on the relationship between waiting times and sick leave. That is why I am very pleased that the Storting has now adopted a new law that gives us a person-identifiable patient register in place, so that we can get more knowledge of these contexts. Then, over several years, the government has increased the treatment capacity of the healthcare system. I'm sure it'll help many more people get treatment. But I agree – again – that we need to work more on looking at these relationships so that we can get people to work faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1446	I thank you for your answer. I interpret it positively that there is a context here, and that it is important that patients come to treatment more quickly. Today, what is saved in health businesses by not providing radiological studies and investigations in time is again in the form of increased sick pay. When such a study and investigation costs only a few days’ sick pay, it is a paradox that patients wait two to three months before they are at all waiting for treatment. In the big picture you should bring this with you when a group as large as 44 pst. are in this group. I had also hoped that new forms of treatment could be looked at in the public offer, such as: naprapats, and to make pilot projects to extend the treatment provision to this group, so that more people can be in work and not get into the unfortunate situation that they are being dissatisfactioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1455	I choose to interpret the representative Giltun in such a way that she also sees that the scheme «Rasers Back» has been successful. The government will include it in the further work on this scheme. Then the representative has some comments related to treatment forms. It is a question that is more under the responsibility of the Minister of Health. Having a wide range of opportunities for those who are outside the labour market to receive treatment, I think, is important. The ‘Retreaters Back’ scheme has given many new opportunities to receive adequate treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1466	First, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on its appointment, and I look forward to good and constructive cooperation. So to the question itself: ‘Norwegian fishermen have now been excluded from mackerel fishing in the EU zone south of 62° north. This is despite the fact that the current fisheries agreement Norway has with the EU on mackerel fishing clearly opens the way for Norwegian fishermen to participate in this fisheries. This now means that Norwegian fishermen can lose the whole mackerel season if they do not find a solution relatively quickly. What action will the Council of State take against the EU to allow Norwegian fishermen to participate again in mackerel fishing in the EU zone south of 62° north?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1477	First of all, I would like to thank you for the congratulations. I also look forward to working with politics for the benefit of the entire Coast Norway, in good cooperation with Stortinget. So to the matter. Since I was appointed Minister of Fisheries and Coast yesterday, I have, to the best of my ability, been involved in the matter. First of all, I am surprised and disappointed at the breach of the EU agreement. The fisheries agreements are the result of negotiations in which both parties must give and take. It is therefore unacceptable for the EU to take action contrary to the agreement that unilaterally weakens Norway’s benefits. The breach of the agreement will make our fishing cooperation more difficult. To date, there have been a number of contacts at both political and official level to reopen the EU's zone for Norwegian mackerel fishermen. Among other things, I can mention the following: The Ambassador to the EU Delegation has handed over a verbal note with a sharp protest and demands for immediate reopening. The Ambassador met with the European Commission on 2 and 14 October respectively. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and the European Commission have also held a negotiating meeting where other representatives from the industry were present, where the agreement and its understanding were discussed. It has been a conversation with the Swedish Minister for Fisheries, Eskil Erlandsson. As a chairmanship, Sweden has a special responsibility to contribute to a solution. There has also been political contact with the Dutch Minister for Fisheries, Gerda Verburg, and Scotland’s Minister for Fisheries, Richard Lochhead. In the run-up to the Ministerial Council for Fisheries and Agriculture on 19 and 20 October, a memo was sent to the Member States, explaining the understanding of the agreement and the seriousness of the situation. The EU, in a note delivered to the Ministry on 19 October, replied to Norway’s note, where the EU stands by the closure of the zone. The matter is relatively locked up. But I can assure you that we are still trying to exploit the channels and influence capabilities we have at our disposal. Mackerel fishing is regulated by two international agreements: the Coastal State Agreement on mackerel and the bilateral agreement between Norway and the EU. We will use these negotiations to seek a solution to the matter, and already on Monday Norway and the EU, together with the Faeroe Islands, will meet for coastal State negotiations on mackerel fishing in 2010. Through the 2010 agreements, we want to ensure that Norwegian fishermen do not end up in the same situation as the breach of the EU agreement has led to this autumn. And last but not least: it is our clear assessment that many EU fishermen depend on having a bilateral fisheries agreement with Norway. Norwegian fishermen live better without an agreement than EU fishermen, and I am sure they are aware of that in Brussels too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1508	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite clear that we have a common understanding of how to interpret the fisheries agreement for mackerel. It is fairly clear, for this is area IVa, which concerns mackerel fishing in the North Sea basin. The dialogue might appear not to lead to it. The season is approaching the end of the mackerel fish, so they're about to lose this whole season. This could result in a loss of export revenue of nearly DKK 1 billion for Norwegian fishermen. This is very serious. I am well aware of the meeting that will take place on Monday, and I have also asked for it to be held at the European Committee meeting this evening in the House. But my question to the Minister for Fisheries is this: Are you now willing to consider whether we should push on the negotiations related to the herring agreement and the bilateral agreement, where we are switching cod against other fish species with the EU – is it really pure paper fish for Norway to calculate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1517	Despite the fact that, as I said, I have put myself into the matter to the best of my ability, I ask for an understanding that there may be moments and details that I have not received. At the same time, I believe that the representative of Nesvik agrees with me that it may not be strategically wise to discuss negotiating strategies in public space, which I define to the greatest extent that. But I would like to come back to Stortinget to explain in more detail the assessments we are making, and the measures we are taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1524	I disagree with the Minister for Fisheries, because it is precisely by using this pulpit that it is shown that there is an involvement in the Norwegian Parliament related to the way Norwegian fishermen are now being treated in the EU system and that it is not acceptable from the Norwegian side. It is the Stortinget that is the main body in Norway. That's why it's important that we use this platform – not necessarily to tell you about the strategies, I don't ask for it either. I ask whether one will now be willing to assess other ways than a pure dialogue to push an agreement into place, because what is happening now is unacceptable and causes enormous losses for both the state of Norway and not least for these fishermen, who are now excluded from their business activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1529	I very much agree with the questioner that it is important to be clear and firm and to give clear signals. In this way, I am very happy to be able to answer the question today, just to give a powerful signal that Parliament is concerned about it. But as I say, the content of the dialogue and further action that we are going to take, I will come back to. I feel confident that, in the negotiations we have, we will together come up with measures that will be noticed and hopefully will also produce results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1538	This question, from Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1541	Let me first take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Knowledge on his appointment. I look forward to a very good cooperation on the very least in school, and hope that we get as good cooperation as I do on the right, as I think we had when we were working on another area, namely financial policy. ‘In the policy platform of the majority government, the Government wishes to make a pedagogical offer to all pre-school children. Can the Council of State respond to this wording's ambition from the Government Parties to introduce compulsory pre-school provision for all children under compulsory schooling?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1550	I look forward to good cooperation with the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland. This is an incredibly exciting field, and the broader consensus there may be in Stortinget about raising the field, the better it is. If the question from the representative of Greece is about stressing ‘mandatory’, I can cancel it immediately. There are no indications in the government platform about a mandatory scheme for pre-school children. However, the wording of the government platform refers to the sample set up by the Council of State on 19 June 2009. It is a public body to discuss educational offers to all pre-school children. That selection is led by Loveleen Rihel Brenna. The background and purpose of the selection are set out in the mandate. The term of office of the committee shall be 1 October 2010. In the light of the setting and recordings from the subsequent consultation, the Government will consider how to follow up. I believe that there are many proposals that can be discussed in this context. I'm sure everyone will be interested in that. What we now have from knowledge and research on the kindergarten sector — every new report we get — underlines the importance of having more attention to learning in the first few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1559	I thank you for your answer. From the right, we also look forward to the report being presented. This is going to be one of the most important debates in that period, I think, when we talk about the smallest. Because when we have so many children in kindergarten, we also have to decide whether kindergarten should be a play or whether we want more knowledge of kindergarten. We know that there are shared views about that. I want to hear the Council of State's thoughts from SV's point of view: what is what you want to be the contents of the kindergarten? Is it the way you want an approach to more knowledge, or do you want it to be the way it is in many kindergartens today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1566	I think it's very artificial to distinguish between games and knowledge – really, all of life, but especially in pre-school age. I think there are many good qualities in preschool education. I think there's a lot of physics in play in a sandbox or playing with water. I think there are many possibilities for developing languages and what is the basis for succeeding in later reading through history stories, etc., but I think we can become much more aware of how this relates. But it is very important for us and for the Government that we see the qualities of preschool education that we have a long tradition for in Norway. We know more and more about the importance of kindergarten provision and a good educational offer in kindergarten for later learning. So consciousness of how to do the best for it, I think we all have a lot of use for it. The community as such will have very great benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1575	I also agree with the Council of State that learning and playing are closely related. You learn a lot through games. I would also like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State – if the Government wants to monitor and look at what children are doing in relation to some things in kindergarten, for example. what came out in ours. Has the government thought about how to catch up with the children who are not in kindergarten? That's part of them. We from the Right have wanted a survey in connection with the four-year check. What does the Minister think of those children who are not in kindergarten and who may need help and support more – if they are being surveyed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1582	There is a clear ambition in the government platform to expand the offer of free core time in kindergarten. I have been around looking at some of the offers that are in kindergarten, and you have very good experience with them. These are services targeted primarily at areas and urban areas where there are a large number of children with a minority background. We see that they learn more in kindergarten. However, schools also report that these are children who come better prepared for school, especially in the case of Norwegian skills. So we have a lot to pick up on this. In addition, there is now one issue in Stortinget that concerns quality in kindergarten, so we can get back to the questions about monitoring. But it's important for me to stress that kindergarten is just going to be a place for play and learning. There is an incredible amount you can learn – and knowledge you can get – through play. But a greater degree of consciousness in how to put up the pedagogical offer can probably make us wiser.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1593	All of them first: Congratulations on the appointment – and good luck with an important job! I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: «Persons with no previous relationship with the labour market are severely discriminated against in relation to those who are economically active in terms of social benefits in connection with pregnancy, childbirth and adoption. Increased disposable benefit will be a targeted measure both to reduce abortion rates and to improve the economy for families with very poor advice. The Council of State will help to increase the one-off benefit to 1G in the first round, and since 2G in the second round, i.e. a quadruple of today's support?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1604	Let me first thank you for your congratulations. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the representative asks this question, because there is a problem that we from the Government are concerned about. In the same way as a number of other benefits over public security, the right to parental leave is acquired through professional activity. Parent Ceilings are compensations for loss of income. Those who have not earned the right to parental leave receive a one-off benefit. We know that the beneficiaries of one-off benefits are a group of women who, for various reasons, do not have six months of professional activity prior to birth, for example. students, at home and disabled. What's interesting is that this group has been decreasing in number. In 2008, it was probably 11,000 women. As from 1 March next year, when the redundancy allowance, the new social benefit in the population, has been introduced, with the right to benefit from parental leave, more women will be entitled to permanent parental leave, and fewer will receive one-off benefits. Many of those who receive one-off social benefits also receive other public benefits, such as: disability benefits, transitional benefits, day-to-day benefits or birth grants from the Loan Fund. So it's not like everyone who receives one-off social benefits is on a bare ground without that support. Having said that, I would like to say that I agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that there is reason to consider an increase in the one-time benefit at birth. For many years and under changing governments, one-off social assistance has slowed down. That's exactly why the government has said in Soria Moria II that we'll consider increasing it. In St.meld. No 8 for 2008-2009 On men, roles and gender equality, presented in the previous period, the government announced that it would carry out a simplified and equal parental death scheme. In this work, it would be natural to assess the rights of parents who are not linked to the labour market. The question of the one-off benefit will be included in that work. Finally, the representative of Bekkevold believes that a higher one-off benefit could be a targeted measure to reduce abortion rates. We don't know enough about the reasons why some girls choose to have an abortion, and there's too little research in the field to make sure we can say something about this. But for my part, I have such confidence in today's young girls that I choose to believe that the option of taking an abortion is about something more than the size of the one-time benefit. If lower abortion rates are the target, I have more faith in measures such as: better sexual education and prevention guidance. And I think it's more -- let's say -- fertile to work because all young people qualify for work, so they have a good platform in life to support the children they choose to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1621	I am pleased that the Council of State wants to focus on the one-off social benefits, in particular on those who have not earned social benefits. In terms of abortion rates and causes of abortion, I agree with the Council of State that this is probably more complex than just economics – but I think it is an important element. That's why it's important to focus on this as well. What I'm recording is that Soria Moria II has chosen to focus on an increase in the rate of fatherhood – which of course is supported by the Christian People's Party – and an increase in the amount of social benefits that already exist, a benefit that is granted to those who have earned rights. But very little or nothing is given to those who have not accumulated these rights – they stand on the ground resting. There's something about those who have nothing, getting nothing. I'm assuming that the Council of State is not satisfied with such a distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1630	There was one of these things I mentioned in my reply to the representative. We are very concerned about strengthening mechanisms that allow us in Norway to have persistently high birth rates, that we can have as much equal parenthood as possible and a more equal working life. Parental leave and parental leave schemes are important keys to achieving this. That is why, of course, the rights attached to such benefits are also a matter of considerable importance. The government has already done a job of extending these rights. I agree with the representative that it is a challenge to make sure that we facilitate well also for the group that initially does not have these rights. That is why we are going to include it as a central part of the work on a new parental pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1637	I don't need any further follow-up questions. I just want to thank the Council of State for what he has answered, and I look forward to being able to follow this case and other matters closely with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1646	I use this opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on new and very important tasks. ‘The introduction of the maximum price in kindergartens has helped to a small extent those families who have the most misguided advice, since the maximum price is primarily reduced for those who paid the highest rates in the past. In the SFO, income graded rates are less common, which means that no one can afford to use the offer. The Council of State will reinforce the regulation on parental payment in kindergarten and SFO, for example by requiring dependants with income below 2 G to pay a maximum of 40 pst. of the applicable maximum rate?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1655	I'm not quite sure everyone is aware of how much cheaper a nursery place has become in recent years. After the introduction of the maximum price in kindergarten in 2004, there has been a sharp reduction in the level of payment by parents for a kindergarten. In private kindergartens, this reduction has been 40 pst. since 2003. Based on the expected price and cost growth in the local government sector in the relevant years, the SSB’s parental payment survey shows that all income groups have had a real decline in the parental payment. But it's true, as the representative, Håbrek, said, that the reduction has been greatest for those with the highest income, since these had little moderated rates in the past. Under the provisions on parental payment in kindergartens, municipalities are required to have schemes that can offer families with the lowest level of payment a reduction or exemption from parental payment. The schemes shall also cover the non-municipal kindergartens in the municipalities. This need not involve an income-graded payment system. It is up to each municipality to find suitable solutions. The Ministry of Knowledge has, in its comments on the Regulation on parental payments in kindergartens, shown the possibility of providing free space under the Social Services Act and the Child Protection Act. Furthermore, the Regulation lays down rules on sibling moderation. The Ministry of Knowledge wants to know more about how the parent payment mode works today. In St.meld. No 41 for 2008-2009, Quality in Kinderhagen, we therefore announced that we would conduct a new child care study, such as: shall consider the parental payment and the use of different maternity arrangements in the municipalities. We know that 24 pst. of the municipalities offer income upgrading today, and that it is in particular the large municipalities that use it, but we want more knowledge about how the parental and maternity rules affect actual parental payment and participation in kindergartens for different groups. Municipalities are obliged to offer school leisure arrangements according to the Training Act § 13-7. The school leisure system is financed through the framework grant to municipalities and self-payment from parents. The parental payment for SFO is not provided for in the regulations, but is laid down in the statutes of each municipality. The government wants everyone to have the opportunity to participate in the SFO. Our goal is a whole school day with time for learning, physical activity every day and time for homework. To facilitate this, the Government will introduce a free hour SFO every day. We are doing this after we have now entered the 2010 budget, with two free hours per. Steps of the week. Furthermore, we will consider measures to limit parental pay and assess national quality requirements. It's on the government platform. We'll come back to how an hour free of charge SFO is going to be done. It will also affect access to the SFO, and who can afford to go there. Then we'll take a closer look at the parental payment, which the representative is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1670	I thank you for the answer, but allow me to express that I think it's a little passive approach. I am pleased that the Council of State wants to further investigate how the system works today, but it is clear that for those families who have little to travel with, the payment for kindergarten and SFO is obviously a burden. As the Council of State had in mind, the Government has proposed a free hour SFO in the budget for the next year and increased hours in primary school. The question is therefore: is this not enough evidence that the Government prioritises action for the broad groups, the large masses, rather than targeting those who really need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1677	It is right that we give broad priority to action. The massive expansion of the kindergarten sector is a broad measure. We have very good experience in Norway in having universal arrangements aimed at all children, and in creating common platforms, whether it be kindergarten or school, on which all children go. We have a distribution committee that has just come up with its attitude, which underlines the importance of kindergarten and school as the common arena. So universal schemes aimed at children will be fundamental. That doesn't mean I reject a discussion about whether there should be targeted schemes, because we have it too. But if you introduce what the representative is asking for, that is to say, that if you provide income less than twice the basic amount of the population's money, you have to pay 40 pst. In fact, of the maximum rates in the SFO and kindergarten, it could lead to the sudden start of payment of some of those who have free space today. This is therefore a field in which we actually need to get a better overview before we come back to which instruments are best.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1684	I thank you for your response. The Christian People's Party is also a supporter of universal arrangements for children, through child welfare and through the prices of kindergarten, which we have worked with the Government to put down. But now the government has proposed in the budget a free hour SFO and increased the hours in primary school and prioritised funds for it. Then the question is asked: Given that the target is actually better inclusion of those who now depend on – what would be the most effective use of the 241 million. kr set aside in the next year's budget for the two measures mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1693	Two hours of free SFO in a week for all children from 1st to 4th steps is an offer for all children – free of charge. This means that some of those who do not use the SFO today will have an opportunity to do so. When we then expand this system so that it becomes an hour free every day for all steps, from 1st to 4th grade, it increases the availability of the SFO for groups that do not currently use the SFO – very targeted and good offers. It will also contribute to a reduction in the price. So I believe that this is well spent money. We see that there are some children who don't go to SFO. Today's 80 pst. of the first classifications in the SFO. Some of the people who don't go there need to go there, because there's a lot of play and learning going on, and the neighborhoods aren't necessarily so much anymore that there's a lot of kids at home in the street. The SFO has in some way become the new street – at least if I'm going to compare with my own childhood. But I see that this is going to be an important debate in the future – how much are universal arrangements, how much are we going to target? Of course, we're ready to go into that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1702	So we're done with case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1717	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1725	The size shall now vote on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-21.ana.ud1134e1871	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
